 of the university of massachusetts. and i am hoed and privileged to take this opportunity to recall the vast experience and outstanding qualifications which he will bring to his new position. most of us here today remember the emous talent. energy. and dedication with which he served this nation. first as under secretary of the department of housing and urban development from 196668. and then in 1969. as secretary of that department. bob woods public service dates back to 1949. when he held the position of associate director of the florida legislative reference bureau. he then served as a management organization expert in the u.s. bureau of the budget. since then. he has compiled a record of academic achievement which confirms him as an outstanding intellect. and a man who enters his new position with the highest qualifications and ability.. .a graduate of princeton university. with a doctorate from harvard. a member of the american academy of arts & sciences. and an author of several highly respected works on urban america and government. he has distinguished himself as a scholar and teacher at harvard university and at the massachusetts institute of techogy. where he has held the positions of head of the political science department and director of the joint center for urban studies. mit and eastern massachusetts will miss him. but i k he will do a characteristically outstanding job in the discharge of his challenging new responsibilities. this is a time of transition. a time which calls for perceptive understanding. strength. and new and imaginative thinking in the field of education and college administration. robert wood brings to the university of massachusetts emous talent. creativity. and great ability. and i can think of anyone more suited to the undertaking. it is with profound admiration and respect that i offer him my congratulations and high good wishes for continued success.
i believe the question the gentleman from new york has raised is fair and important. what i am trying to understand from the legislative history we are writing. and specifically from the gentlewoman from oregon. is precisely what is the intent of her amendment. if the guidelines are to apply essentially to dual school systems. we have one situation. if. on the other hand. she is saying that the guidelines and regulations must  apply to an area on which the supreme court has  yet ruled. discrimination arising  out of state or local school board action but out of residential patterns. then i believe the point the gentleman from new york is making is correct. this would involve a very major and substantive change in law and the appropriation of very major funds on the part of this congress to deal with the immediate correction of major areas of ghetto housing and residential patterns which are the basis of discrimination. i have supported strongly the open housing provisions of the civil rights act of 1966 and other major legislation which would have a meaningful impact on efforts to break down the segregated ghetto and slum areas which presently exist in some areas of our. nation. but i should like to try to clarify with the gentlewoman from oregon in her understanding. her amendment would apply right  to residential patterns of housing. because the guidelines do  deal with that. they deal essentially. as i understand it. with dual school systems.
. people who volunteer for the peace corps dont do so for the money or the glamour. peace corps service is  used as a stepping stone for ones career. ask someone who has served in the corps why he or she joined. dont be surprised if the answer is patriotism or idealism. a desire to help those less fortunate or a passion to change the world. this reasoning may sound naive in 1989 and more appropriate of the first volunteers who joined the corps in 1961. yet i believe we are beginning to see the pendulum swing away from the "me generation" of the eighties to a more compassionate citizenry of the approaching nineties. americans are taking a closer look at this country and realizing that the problems plaguing our nationdrugs. illiteracy. homelessnesscan be alleviated if everyone lent a hand. there are many volunteer programs already in operation across the country that are doing a good job with their resources. but imagine what could be accomplished if every citizen gave 2 hours of his or her time every weekl im  saying this would wipe out the demand for drugs or make everyone functionally literate. but we would be so much closer to making these goals a reality. this year there has been a growing interest in national service. and many bills have been introduced in both the house and senate that address this issue. there is a good possibility that one may be enacted into law this congress. i am very much in favor of national service and have been closely considering each proposal. i am troubled. however. that the discussion so far has focussed more on the incentives for performing service rather than the reasons why we all should offer a little of our time. i think it is time to change the "whats in it for me" mentality to "what can i do for you." compassion can be mandated.  should it be "bought" through offering housing or school loan vouchers. if we are to develop a national volunteer corps. we should look to the reasons why the peace corps has been so successful in its efforts to recruit volunteers. twentynine years ago a challenge was offered and our nation responded. since then over 130.000 individuals have volunteered their services in almost 100 countries. the peace corps continues to receive over 10.000 applications each year from individuals willing to share 2 years of their lives helping people throughout the world. today i hope you will join me in paying tribute to a simple idea that has changed the lives of so many here and abroadthe peace corps.*
. i include the contents of h.r. h.r. 13271 a bill to permit expenditures in connection with certain schools in schenectady. new york. to be counted as local grantsinaid to federally assisted urban renewal projects and neighborhood development programs in schenectady be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives o the united states of america in congress assembled. that. withstanding the date of the commencement of construction of the martin luther king elemer.tary school and the steinmetz junior high school in schenectady. new york. local expenditures made in connection with such schools shall. to the extent otherwise eligible. be counted as local grantsinaid for federally ascisted urban renewal projects and neighborhood development programs in schenectady that will be served by such schools.
that is precisely what is proposed. so far as i k. arrangements of this sort would meet  only our needs but also the general needs. i think it ought to be done on that basis. we. too. agree that we are  engaged in a school bill. but in a housing bill.
i thank the senator. . the benefits that would have come from the category c program would be spread countrywide. as for my own state. i shouldlike the record to show that more than 60 new jersey communities have public housing and would benefit from the category c program. under the bill approved by the senate. new jersey school districts would have received a total of almost $3.9 million. newark alone would have received $1.156.793 and jersey city would have received $332.399.
. as a member of the conference committee. i have taken exception to one portion of the conference report on the supplemental appropriations bill that perpetuates an inequity in the distribution of federal aid to school districts that carry a special burden as a result of federal activities. twice this year the senate has approved funds to assist local districts educating children whose parents live in lowincome public housing. on both occasions. in the education appropriations bill and again in this supplemental appropriations bill. the funds approved by the senate for this purpose were eliminated in the conference committee meeting with house members. since 1950. the congress has provided funds to assist school districts that provide an education for children whose parents live or work on federal installations throughout the country. this assistance recognizes that a federal activity can impose a special burden on a school district. particularly when federal property is removed from the local tax rolls. in my view. there can be justification for providing federal aid to school districts impacted by federal installations if we do  provide the same type of assistance to school districts required to educate children whose parents live in housing projects that are exempt from local taxes because they are federal property. the failure to provide funds for the authorized program of aid to districts impacted by public housing is  only inequitable. it is shortsighted on the part of those who support aid to districts impacted by other federal installations. we in congress have already stated our support for spreading lowincome public housing beyond the urban areas where most of it  exists. indeed reports from the 1970 census indicate that suburban public housing will continue to expand during this decade. over 3.000 communities in all 50 states  have public housing and this is a program that will touch more and more as the years go by. in my view. federal aid for school districts impacted by public housing is one of the most meritorious aspects of the whole impacted aid program and it most certainly is the one related most directly to identifiable public ecoic need.
. the distinguished senator from washington has correctly stated the situation. when we interrupted to vote on the tabling motion to the tunney amendment on the other bill i had just made the point that as long as the house was adamant against including anything for this program. the senate appeared to be going along in connection with this matter. my amendment would provide for $60 million. this year. faced with the house having overruled its own committee on the floor and adopting the $10 million figure. the only way senate opponents of impacted aid assistance for public housing students could succeed was by kking it out entirely. this reverses the position the committee had taken in previous years. they kked out all provision for category c in the committee. the senator from rhode island. in increasing two parts of this. suggested we restore $10 million of the house figure. i  suggest that figure be $60 million or 20 percent of the authorized program. the elementary and secondary education amendments approved by congress in 1969 amended public law 874. the impacted areas aid program. to provide a new category of federal assistance to school districts. for the first time. this amendment authorized payments to school districts based on the number of pupils in the district who were living in low rent public housing. twice since then. the senate appropriations committee has approved motions that i made to provide funds to get this program started. in both cases. the senate approved this appropriation but the senate allotment was eliminated in conference committee with the house. this year for the first time. the house approved funding for the program. the house bill contains provision for $10 million. unfortunately. this would cover only 3 percent of the authorized level of funding. the amendment i am offering would include in the bill $60 million for the public housing impact program. 20 percent of the authorized level of funding. there is hing in the bill at this time since the appropriations committee. contrary to its actions in the past years. rejected even the $10 million in the house bill. even the $60 million requested in my amendment is far short of the need in this area but it is egh to get the program off to a fair start. by approving federal assistance for school districts that educate children living in low income public housing. congress recognized that these federally funded housing projects impose a special burden on the schools in much the same way that military bases and other federal installations do. like military bases and other federal installations. public housing projects pay local property taxes for the support of schools. at the same time. they attract to the districts large numbers of youngsters. there are small payments made in lieu of taxes by housing authorities but these payments average less than $15 per child. the cost of providing an education for a child ranges from about $700 to upwards of $2.000 in my own state of new jersey. for example. as a result. the resources of the district are stretched extremely thin. the education of children from public housing suffers from the impact and so does that of those from public housing. the extra burden on the taxpayers is obvious. this inequity is particularly difficult to bear since many of the districts that have heavy concentrations of public housing already are among the poorest districts in the nation. the aid provided to these districts under my amendment would be especially valuable since it is  earmarked for any special educational program but could be used in the area of greatest need in each school system. the districts will have the same control over the use of this money that they have over locally collected taxes. in my view. this type of impacted areas aid. called category c. is one of the most meritorious and one related most directly to identifiable public ecoic need. this is  only a big city program. over 3.000 communities in all 50 states have public housing and statistics provided by the department of housing and urban development indicate the program will continue to grow. more than 60 new jersey communities have public housing and would benefit from the category c program. under my amendment. new jersey school districts would receive a total of almost $3.6 million to assist in the education of 56.080 children whose parents live in public housing. for some states with smaller entitlements. the significance of the federal assistance that would be provided under this program may  be readily apparent. but the impact becomes easier to see if you compare full funding of category c with full funding of category b of impacted areas aidwhich provides aid to school districts that educate children whose- parents work on government installations. under my amendment. for example. connecticut would receive about $1.5 million for category c aid. under full funding of the program. connecticut would receive twice as much as it would receive under full funding of category b. other states in which category c compares favorably with category b under full funding for both programs are arkansas. illis. indiana. kentucky. louisiana. massachusetts. michigan. minnesota. mississippi. nebraska. new york. th carolina. ohio. pennsylvania. rhode island. tennessee. vermont. west virginia. and wisconsin. a similar comparison could be made with category a of impacted areas aidwhich provides aid to school districts educating children whose parents live and work on federal installations--and the names of additional states would appear. but this is  to suggest that the program would be unimportant in even states which receive such large amounts of category a or b aid that category c could  match it.  does it suggest that category c should be considered as an alternative to any other part of the impacted areas aid program. the public housing program under impacted areas aid is funded separately from the rest of the impacted areas aid programs. this is required by the authorizing legislation. this means category c will  diminish funding of the other programs.  will it rely on those programs for its justification. in my view. impacted areas aid for public housing is a program that should be considered separately on its own merits. as such. i believe it is one of the most worthwhile parts of the impacted areas aid program. and yet. we are funding other parts of the impacted areas program at 84 percent. 90 percent. and even 100 percent of entitlement. compared with this. the 3percent funding for category c provided by the house bill is sorry indeed. even the 20percent funding provided by my amendment is dwarfed by the funding provided for categories a and b. but it provides egh to give the program a fair start. therefore. i urge adoption of this amendment.
. i introduce for appropriate reference. for myself and my colleague from new york [*mr. keating . proposed housing legislation to first. remove the limit on relocation payments under the federal urban renewal program. second. increase to $150 million the urban renewal extender fund. third. permit the fha mortgage insurance premium to be lowered to onefourth of 1 percent. and fourth. raise from 10 to 121/2 percent the total amount in college housing loans which may be borrowed in any one state for the construction of dormitories and related facilities. the last of these bills is sponsored by the senators from california . and the other three bills are sponsored by the junior senator from new york . following the introduction of similar legislation last year. these measures were accepted by the senate banking and currency committee. of which i am a member. and they were incorporated in the major housing bill subsequently passed by the senate. but which died in the house rules committee. action on an omnibus housing bill in 1961 should be of priority concern to the new congress and the new administration. the emergency legislation rushed through last year. when the senatepassed housing act of 1960 became hopelessly pigeonholed in the house rules committee. gave a lastminute transfusion of funds to a few programs. but urban renewal and public housing along with many necessary amendments to improve established programs such as those being introduced today were bypassed. a repetition of last years failure must be avoided at all cost in the interest of housing and of our ecoy. the legislation proposed today was an integral part of the major housing bill as it passed the senate. and if anything. it is more necessary  than at the time it was favorably considered in this chamber. the proposal to increase the present limit on urban renewal relocation paymentsfixed at a maximum of $200 to individuals and families and $3.000 per businessis aimed at eliminating an inequity which is most often experienced by those living on urban renewal sites in large metropolitan areas. such maximums are unrealistic in an area like new york city. where the city finds that. in connection with its own housing projects. the cost of relocating tenants usually runs several hundred dollars above what the federal government would pay in similar circumstances on an urban renewal site. also. some studies of the fate of businesses forced to move off these sites reveal that up to 25 percent of them did  survive. some business mergers were reported. some owners retired. others failed in new locations. and some disappeared altogether. my proposal would allow the locality and the federal governments to treat payments over and above the existing federal maximums as a regular urban renewal cost. to be shared on the same basis of onethird to twothirds. thus. we would minimize the risk that slum clearance would mean slum transference. instead. tenement families could hope and be helped to relocate in decent housing in a healthier environment. the proposal to increase the urban renewal extender fund from $100 million to $150 million does  increase the total grant authorization for the program itself. but it does assure states which have the greatest number of projects. such as new york. pennsylvania. illis. and california. that they are  going to be penalized for their vigorous participation in the urban renewal program. a more adequate extender fund of .$150 million would mean that when a state exceeds its 121/2 percent share of the regular funds. the statutory maximum. its localities could avoid a slowdown or stalemate by seeking new financing from this source. aher housing measure which i believe would be of substantial assistance to middle income families is the lowering of the annual fha premium charge for mortgage insurance to onefourth of 1 percent at the discretion of the fha commissioner. the present minimum is onehalf of 1 percent. however. the reserve fund for all fha insurance companies is well above the $850 million mark. and the savings which my proposal envisions would be substantial to several million families. if the suggested minimum was put into effect. the owners of more than 3 million homes with fha mortgages would realize an average saving of $21 a year and up to $30 on new mortgages. the cost of more than 683.000 units of cooperative or rental housing would be reduced about $30 each year. this reduction could prove an important stimulus to housing construction in a bracket within the purchasing or rental reach of the middle income group. a group which is  slowly but surely being driven outside many of our big cities because of inadequate housing. the last proposal i am submitting. which also passed the senate as part of the housing act of 1960. will enable those states which educate an unusually large proportion of college and graduate students to receive their fair share of funds under the college housing program. states like new york and california are making a tremendous effort to house and care for the rapidly growing college population. today. new york or any other state can borrow more than 10 percent of the construction funds for college dormitories and similar facilities. and yet. in our case. we educate between 11 percent and 12 percent of all the graduate and undergraduate students in the united states418.675 young men and women. california also has passed the 10 percent figure. at the rate this enrollment is growing. by 1970 new york colleges and universities expect to have to house as many as 110.000 more students than they do right . with this responsibility. coupled with the admittedly higher construction costs in new york. often 20 percent higher than in other states. permitting any state to utilize up to 121/2 percent of the college loan funds will enable new york. california. and any other state that needs to. to undertake new building programs which are more realistically scaled to future as well as existing college housing needs.
 ought to demonstrate an equal amount of leadership in breaking the logjam which  holds up action on those bills at this session. this idea is expressed also in an editorial published in todays issue of the new york times. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point in my remarks the editorial entitled "school aid urgency." together with the text of my remarks to the national association of college and university housing officers at columbia university on monday. july 31. 1961.
. it is tremendously interesting. i think. and should be of interest to the country. to see what has occurred in the light of the big todo which has been made in this chamber concerning the literacy test bill. which has gone down the drain. this is the really critical element of the desegregation process. the desegregation of education. desegregation with respect to jobs. and desegregation with respect to housing are the three principal areas in which action is urgently required. yet the whole concentration of attention by the administration. i think quite wrongly. and the whole concentration of attention by the congress has been upon voting matters. about which there should be very little dispute. school desegregation has been allowed shamefully to lag. the 1961 report of the civil rights commission specifies that in uncertain terms. showing that the process has  even begun in biracial districts in alabama. georgia. mississippi. and south carolina. and has  begun in all but one district in florida and in all but one district in louisiana. in this regard i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record an excerpt from the "conclusions of the civil rights commission."
. i should like to make some observations regarding the agriculture appropriation bill the senate passed last friday. and which will soon be the subject of a senatehouse conference. first. i wish to commend the appropriations committee for restoring the administrations proposed cutbacks in the school milk. school lunch. landgrant college and agricultural research programs. certainly. these longexisting. vital programs deserve the full support of the congress. by recommending cuts in these valuable programs. the administration. which should have kn full well that the congress would surely restore the cuts. in effect attempted to make the congress appear to be the "big spenders." i hope that the senate conferees will press for adoption of the sums allotted by this body particularly in regard to the following two programs: first. rural community development service: i believe that the senate provided a valuable service when it increased the funds available to the rural community development service from last years $637.000 to $2.5 million. unfortunately. the house agreed only to maintain the fiscal 1966 level. i would like to add my support to the senate figure and would hope that the distinguished senator from florida will urge the house to take the $2.5 million figure. the rural community development service provides a force of specialists in rural development thoroughly trained in the procedures of other federal agenciesas well as the department of agriculture programsassigned a clear and fulltime responsibility of helping rural communities in each state make full use of available forms of assistance. our federal programs are of inadequate value if we can make them reach the rural citizen who has little access to information concerning the various aid available. the $2.5 million appropriated by the senate will allow this agency to expand its services beyond the 23 states in which it  has offices. the agency had estimated that it would need at least $1.750.000 to maintain the present level of operation. thus. by giving added life to this service we are pursuing the goal of seeing that rural people share equitably in our federal system. second. school lunch program for needy children: i was glad to see the senate adopt an amendment to increase to $4.5 million funds available for section 11 of the school lunch program. that section authorizes special assistance in the form of a larger subsidy to schools in lowincome areas. this added sum will allow needy children to receive more wellrounded nutritional diets. the house merely continued the $2 million appropriated last year. at the same time i hope the conferees will be sympathetic to the views of the house with regard to new starts in watershed planning. whereas the house allowed for 100 new starts for this important program to increase our flood prevention methods. the senate has allowed for only 60 new starts. i am informed the actual building of the various watershed projects has been bogged down and i hope that an increased effort within the department of agriculture will be made to push this program along at a faster pace. i am also pleased to point out that although only $50 million was allocated for expenses for the cropland adjustment program. the committee in its report states that should it be determined later that actual needs for fiscal 1967 are much greater. additional funds will be sought in a supplementary appropriation bill. the cropland adjustment program was created as a result of the 1965 agriculture act and it is still unfamiliar to many farmers. however. as the word spreads across the country. i believe that there will be great demand by farmers who may wish to divert land from the production of unneeded crops to uses that will promote the development and conservation of our soil. also the program may be used to preserve open spaces. promote natural beauty. and for rural recreation facilities. earlier in the session. -the senate passed s. 902. a bill sponsored by senator ellender and myself to authorize the secretary of agriculture to cooperate with state and other public agencies in planning for changes in the use of agricultural land in rapidly expanding areas and other agriculture use areas. we can ill afford to make mistakes in land development as the cities expand into our rural areas. i am informed that community planners have expressed great interest in the aid given them by the soil maps resulting from surveys conducted by the soil conservation services. i had hoped that the committee would have seen fit to restore the entire $3.6 million which the administration sought to cut from this years budget. however. the senate did restore $2 million of that amount which is the sum agreed to by the house. finally. i should mention that by restoring the funds which the administration would have cut in agricultural research. the committee returned $320.000 to the joint federalstate fight against the golden nematodean insect which has the capability of destroying the entire long island potato crop. such destruction would result in the loss to new york state of over $25 million annually. i am informed that the combined federalstate effort over the past 20 years is within 3 or 4 years of containing this infestation. it would be tragic if the federal government were to withdraw its support at this time.
madam president. this amendment proposes to make available $300 million in lending authority for socalled college housing loans. but upon terms different from those  contained in the law. to wit. standard terms rather than the guaranteed 3 percent interest which is  providedstandard terms being onequarter of 1 percent added to the going rate. the classic treasury definition of what is their average for all their outstanding indebtedness and the going rate for money. madam president. i offer this amendment because. due to applications by colleges in my stateand i k that this is true of colleges all across the nationwe find that huds ability to make loans. is completely frustrated withstanding the terrible crisis in higher education. to deal with college housing has run out. i have a letter from the department of housing and urban development which gives these facts. and i can say. madam president. that they are most alarming. the pertinent paragraphs of the letter are as follows: requests for college housing loans far exceed available funds. this fund shortage became serious in fiscal year 1965 when $192 million in applications could  be funded. the first 7 months of the current year produced an additional $568 million in new applications. faced with applications totaling $760 millionagainst a budget level of $300 millionand the prospect that this amount would increase to more than $1.100 million by june 30. 1966. the receipt of applications was suspended effective january 31. 1966. at the same time. measures were annced to provide for equitable distribution of available funds while retaining the viability of most projects. these measures provided for a maximum loan of $4 million per campus per year. of which  more than $500.000 could be for service facilities under the sublimitation of the act. the program level for college housing loans can meet only part of even the most urgent demand. the college housing program levels. of course. are established in the light of the total budgetary situation. requiring difficult decisions with respect to the allocation of the nations resources in these troubled times. in these circumstances. the budget for fiscal year 1967 provides $300 million in support of the college housing program. since the need for college housing continues to peak. however. the funds available will support a progressively smaller percentage of the need for such housing. madam president. the reason why this is a budget item is that there is an arbitrary rate of interest. to wit 3 percent. and that requires some expenditure on the part of the government. therefore. i have provided in my amendment that an additional $300 million per year be made available. provided that it is at a going rate rather than the 3percent rate. the going rate will be considerably higher. madam president. i have guarantee and the manager of the bill would have guarantee as to whether such funds could actually be used by many colleges. but at least we would be making available an opportunity to those colleges to use them. though at a higher rate of interest. if the amendment is adopted in this form in conference. but what is much more important to me. madam president. is that i think many senators are being oppressed by this situation in the same way that i am. in that we are very anxious to encourage higher education. and there is a builtin limitation as to what can be accomplished in that regard in terms of college housing. with a tremendously unsatisfied demand and a very legitimate demand. the matter first came to my attention in connection with an application of dyouville college. at buffalo. n.y.. which was seeking funds for construction of a residence hall in an emous community project. they could  even get their application on file. let alone get any serious consideration of it. because of the moratorium on applications due to lack of available funds. madam president. this problem is a very big and very real one. and is aggravated by the fact that there is  money whatever for 1966. because they have completely loaned out the available funds. and though they were included in the bill for participation sales. the president has  yet given them any authority to make any sales. and though they have $200 million in a revolving fund. from refunds from loans they have made. that is tied up by the budget bureau and  allocated. or perhaps allocated to something else. what i have in mind. therefore. madam president. is at least to seize the conferees of the problem. which is a very serious and real problem.  only for my state but for many other states. in the hope that. without a budgetary imaugust 11. .1966 pactthat is why i made the -provision that the 3percent guarantee  applythey might be able to find some way of giving some element of relief. that is the reason that i developed the amendment this way. and the basis upon which i am proposing it is  with any thought that it would necessarily have to go this way. but with the thought that at least the conference would be seized of a situation which represents a very. very serious problem to an element of the country we are trying to encourage and help. to wit. the higher educational institutions of the country.
the budgetary money for college housing. i say to my colleague. is the money that has already been used. they have completely committed that as of june 30. 1966. they were supposed to get the $300 million out of the participation sales dealthat is. the authorization for fiscal year 1967. the authorization was canceled in the participation sales act on the theory that they would get the pariicipation sales money. however. because this particular kind of paper carries a very heavy cost from the federal government. as the senator can see. at a time of high interest rates. they have  sold them. hence. they are out of money. the situation is one in which this college housing is caught in the squeeze between the high money rate and an exhaustion of the money they had available. the only place in which they can look for money is the bureau of the budget. which has $200 million of repayments under its control. the bureau of the budget. for reasons of its own. which i assume are valid. has allowed them only $50 million. and that is it. the whole college housing field. insofar as any federal help is concerned. is starving. as a practical matter. the law provides. very wisely. that they will  get any federal loans unless there is capability of getting money anywhere else. that is what is happening . bank money is extremely short and so is any other source of lending. of all times when they need help. this is the time when they need it the most. i am told that even if colleges could get money. it would be at a rate in excess of 6 percent.
from what i have been able to determinei have  studied that in a negative wayi am  prepared to say  that money will be available. however. i have studied it in a positive way. i have consulted with the authorities and gotten all the facts and details from the agency. the positive sources of money are those which i have described. they do  include the ones to which the senator refers. so my answer is that i can see that any money will come from that source. i told this to the committee yesterday. this bill will go to conference. i wanted to accomplish two things. first. the senate should be for the principle that college housing needs some help. it has  received any help. second. being seized of the problemsas we lawyers sayi was confident that once they had the view of the senate that we wanted some money for college housing. they would work it out compatibly with the various problems involved. individual senator. except in rare cases. can have researched these matters through to the ultimate in such a way as to say to the committee: "you must take this. or else." i do such thing. once they ascertain that the senate wants them to do something about college housing. so that money will be available for this purpose. i am sure they will work out the details compatibly with all the things we have provided. i hope and pray they can find some other way than mine. however. there is mandate  from either body of congress to do anything. i am trying to put them in a position in which they are responsible and have a mandate from the senate that we want something done about it. however. i have slavish adherence to this particular scheme. i have advanced it because i think it makes sense in the particular circumstances. . i shall conclude my argument by outlining the needs. i think we can say with fair certainty that for practical purposesthough there may be money in the bureau of the budget which they are  releasing and there may be money in the participation certificates which are unsold for very good reasons because of the broad spread of going interest rates. as contrasted to the 3percent interest rate in college housingthe fact is that money is available  or in the foreseeable future. at least for a time. in the college housing field. the department has applications in excess of $300 million. on the desk of every senator is a list of the states with the amount of the applications from each state. i am advised by the department that these are approvable applications. it is information of the same character that the department would give to any other senator or member of the house. they are approvable applications. but hing can be done about them because the resources are just  available. these applications are only those that have been received up to january 31. 1966. the department has  taken applications since that time. requests have been received for these funds from almost 400 institutions out of 2.350 eligible institutions in the united states. i examined into the question of the way in which this program could be administered. and the way in which it could be administered would be as a mix. in other words. any money which the department might have available on a 3percent basis would be mixed with what it has available on a highinterest basis. and anyone who was granted a loan. if the amendment should become law. would have to take his share of lowinterest money. which is infinitesimal. and of highinterest money which would be made available by the amendment. this is the worst time of all for these institutions to get any money. if they do get it. there is really chance to get it anywhere. if they were able to get it. they would have to pay more than 6 percent for it. bank money is  available. the closest to these rates for money is being paid by states having high credit standing. such as california. a state which has just issued privately a bond issue on which it paid a coupon of 4.98 percent. but such funds are available only under unusual circumstances to a large state university having excellent credit. where the state is borrowing money on tax exempts. even though the state had to sell its bonds at a rate of 4.78 return. which is an extremely high return. but that is the financial situation as it affects colleges. there are two factors which indicate that we ought to act on the bill. the first is the size of the demand. second. i am reliably advised that young people will actually be barred from admission to colleges beginning in september 1967. because housing will  be available. there is a period of 2 years between the time when money is made available and the time when the housing is available. therefore. unless we act . we shall lose a real opportunity to cope with the burgeoning college population. namely. in the housing field. the loans proposed by the amendment would be essentially housing loans. only a very small part of the loans made are for dining halls and student centers. which are ancillary to housing. these would be housing loans. only two states. i have ascertained. have any kind of dormitory authoritymy own state of new york and the state of connecticut. new york figures in this proposal very little. it is mainly a problem that affects many other states. the burgeoning college population is shown by a table which i ask to have printed in the record. showing that today we have. as of september enrollment. something like. 6 million students in college5.924.000. that increases. in round figures. about a half million.a year. until about 1970 it would be 7.25 million.
i am reliably informed that if we do  move . a material number of young people will be barred from college because they can get housing. finally. my own interest in this matter is attributable to the fact that i am the ranking member of the committee on labor and public welfare. which handles education. and i am thoroughly alerted and informed as to the problems of higher education. in offering this amendment. it is really my purpose to deal with a problem of higher education in aher fieldbut in a very related fieldin order to facilitate these colleges in their problem. i say to senators that everything in our country today. when we have almost full production. in terms of the facilities which are availableabout 97 percent of our resources are being used for production todayand when we have an inflationary situationis in relationship to priority: what is more important than something else. i respectfully submit that this is a field of critical importance to the future of the nation. ranking with anything that we are doing in the mal housing field or any other field. and therefore we should give it a fair allocation of our resources. as i said before. i have  strained the matter. i have tried to propose something to the senate which is reasonable in terms of its size. certainly apportioned to the need. i respectfully submit that on a deserving priority basis. we ought to do something in the college housing field. where. if hing is done today. apparently hing will happen unless conditions change materially.
i will be happy to do that. the senator is very astute. but i wish to make a point. i am representing to the senate that the only thing that this vote will show is that we want $300 million in this program for 1967. when they work it out in conference there may be other ways in which they can work this out in detail. the only thing that the senate would be doing is declaring itself on the principle of considering the priorities. the senator is right. they want $300 million in the college housing program. then. i felt the conference would be seized of the program and do what the senator suggests or something else. i do  have the intimate details. but this is  an "and/or" amendment. it is simply a matter of declaring the purpose.
. i invite the attention of the senate to new york citys proposed vest pocket housing program. the first in the nation. it is a program which incorporates modern techniques of planning in one coordinated effort aimed at the problems and desires of individual neighborhoods. it works toward the rebuilding of each community on the basis of its unique history and character to meet the present needs and desires of its people. new york city has launched its own model cities program with a commitment of $15 million. most of which will go toward the vest pocket housing program. this first step in new yorks own model cities program was the subject of a searching inquiry when jason r. nathan. administrator of the housing and developing administration of new york city recently appeared as a guest on the public affairs television program. "youth wants to k." i ask unanimous consent that highlights from the transcript of the "youth wants to k" program. produced by theodore granik. a discussion by mr. nathan and a panel of interested students from anacostia high school in washington. d.c.. walt whitman high school in maryland. and fairfax and george marshall high schools in virginia. be printed in the record.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to provide an annual payment of $300 per lowrent public housing unit to local school districts under the impacted school aid program. public law 874. this approach has the support of the national school boards association which supported a similar proposal i had introduced in the last congress. there are more than 1.5 million public schoolchildren living in some 675.000 eligible public housing units. a fourth of which are located in the nations 14 largest cities. the continued financial burden of bearing the total local cost of educating the concentrations of public housing children. many of whom require special educational services. is a major factor in the financial crisis which is rapidly developing for the central city school systems. although the federal government. under the housing act. contributes about $11 for each child in public housing. this amount is only a token payment and short approximately $375. on the average. of the amount provided by local property taxes for the number of children living in a public housing unit. this amount. as recently pointed out in a house of representatives report. "is grossly inadequate to offset the revenue lost by exempting public housing from local and state taxation." illustrative of this is the situation in new york city where the federal payment of $3.6 million. as estimated in 1967. is only a small proportion of the $76.1 expended in educating some 63.400 children who live in public housing projects. so the cost of educating these public housing youngsters must be borne by their local property taxpaying neighbors. there are several reasons for preferring the computation of benefits by public housing unit instead of by individual child. first. this method is more convenient for measuring exact costs and in estimating future obligations. second. experience in new york city. philadelphia. chicago. detroit. and other communities shows that some parents. especially among the poor. are reluctant to complete the necessary forms to qualify the local school district for impacted school aid assistance under public law 874 and therefore the schools are deprived of the funds to which they are entitled. this method of computation would obviate this difficulty. i am hopeful through this bill to bring to a successful conclusion the effort i began in the last congress. action should  be further postponed.
this chart demonstrates that the concentration of specifically negro children in allblack schools in the state of new york is almost in inverse ratio to their concentration in the state of mississippi. in that 87.4 percent of all at the other end of the scale. in misnegro students in mississippi attend sissippi. in schools that have from zero schools which are 100 percent black to 49.9 percent negro enrollment. there while in new york. only 1.6 percent of are only 6.7 percent of the states negro the negro students attend such schools. schoolchildren. whereas. in new york. in 478 such schools. there are 55.1 percent of the negro schoolchildren. the essence of the point is this: i k what senator stennis is trying to prove. i agree that where there is segregation on grounds of color. which violates lawthat is. violates the federal civil rights act of 1964 and the constitutionthen i say we should have equal treatment everywhere. and we have actually had an injunction issued in mount ver. n.y.. against the school districts because they were guilty of de jure segregation. but where you have patterns of residence in a state like new york that bring about what i consider to be an undue and very unfortunate concentration of miity children in a given school. then there must be an effort directed through educational parks. through local busing. and through general pedagogical policies. even though there is some inhibition in using federal funds and state funds for those purposes. the present commissioner of education. james allen. was new york states education commissioner and is a leader in the field of combating segregation. new york is striving in every way to dispel the de facto segregation which exists by virtue of housing patterns. and it has the most outstanding antidiscrimination laws in the country that seek to break open these housing patterns. i think there is comparison between a state that is dug in and still clinging to the last vestiges of segregation as social and legal policysuch as the state of mississippiand a state that is leading the nation in dealing with the problems attributable to housing patterns that lead to de facto school segregationsuch as the state of new york. i thought that distinction should be made very clear. back to back. as it were. with the presentation made by the senator from mississippi.
. i am grateful to my friend. the senator from new jersey. he. too. has shown emous fortitude in the face of great difficulties in respect to this matter. while we assess what we are doing. let us remember that from the point of view of any member of the miity in this countryand it is the miity who are affected by this measure. and especially the black miity. 11 percent of the people of the countryit all depends on whether one has a job. people like myself who live in emous cities are so cognizant of that fact. this is the most important of all civil rights bills. it may  appeal to someone so vividly if a small child is taken away from a good school or if a family is embarrassed by  being able to rent an apartment or buy a home. however. in the final analysis it is the man with the job that has the dignity. and it is the man with the job who can buy different things. the deplorable conditions in the neighborhoods of many of the great cities. such as my own city of new york. are attributable very heavily to the fact that 25 or 30 percent of the males are unemployed and their families are on welfare. that is a very serious condition. there is man in the house because the man has  had dignity and has  been able to earn a living or to get a job. it has been said in the most colloquial way that-
. i rise in support of amendment  1273 introduced by the gentleman from new jersey of which i am a cosponsor. which would provide $60 million for part c of public law 874. the impact aid law. part c. as has been pointed .22676 out. would pay school districts funds for the education of children living in lowrent public housing. the congress included part c of public law 874 in 1970 as part of public law 91230. at that time the congress was much impressed with the fact that the "in lieu of taxes" payments made under the public housing act to local governments for lowrent housing bear little relationship to the cost of providing education for the children residing in them. while these local educational agencies were receiving only about $11 per child of such "in lieu of taxes" payments. the cost of educating each such child ranged from $700 to $1.200 a year. this amount is grossly inadequate to offset the revenue loss by exempting public housing from local and state taxation. the more than 1.5 million schoolchildren living in eligible public housing are spread throughout 3.000 communities in every state in the nation. a fourth of them are located in the nations 14 largest cities. the continued financial burden of bearing the total cost of educating the concentrations of public housing children. many of whom require special educational services. is a major factor in the financial crisis which is rapidly developing for the central city school systems. it is vital that this amendment be adopted to fulfill this need and the obligation of the federal government to those school districts bearing the additional financial burden of educating children living in taxfree public housing. we are indebted to the senator from new jersey for offering this proposal. i feel we are also indebted to the senator from rhode island for opening up the question. as he always does so courageously. but the $60 million is totally inadequate in terms of a fair share. honest division. equal justiceany standard you make. i hope the senate will allow at least this elemental change.
i understand. but the whole impact aid program was originally invented here for the purpose of looking after something which is longer true. it is really aid to public schools . as far as public housing was concerned it was the only way in which many communities in this countryand i am being brutally frank with the senatecould get a look in on all this dough. it was the only way it could be done.  if we are kked out we are being discriminated against and the senator is making it necessary for us to go after the whole impact aid program. i promise. we will. the big cities of the country may  do it tonight. but they will wake up and they will join me. they will kk it all out. that is what you are doing. the minute you start monkeying around with this tier system. and the minute you kk a particular block of children out of it. you are inviting disaster for impact aid. every administration has been against it. the republicans and the democrats. but they have had to live with it and tolerate it. i have. too. and every other big city senator has had to live with it and tolerate it. and do his utmost to get a piece of the action. i said i would be very frank with the senate and i am being frank. if you want to cut us out. ok. you may have the votes to do it. but i promise you that you will lose the whole program the minute you start to monkey with it. sure. so many school districts are in it precisely for that reason. everybody else wants a piece of the action. as long as there is going to be federal aid to public schools with a big block of public money. just as i did and other senators representing big cities. but if you tamper with it this way and kk these kids out. that is the end of the program. it may  be this year but it will be the next year or the year after that.
