i thank the senator from alabama. the problem concerning refugees in vietnam has already been discussed. i merely record again the facts set forth in my colloquy with the distinguished senator from massachusetts : first. we should make certain that the refugees are well handled. intelligently handled. and effectively handled. in order to do that. the united states can allow the saigon officials to run the program themselves. we should finance it. or help to finance it. and we should also take the direct responsibility to see to it that what is done is done right. having visited vietnam. i am convinced that roughly 700.000 refugees can be the most effective cadre of any we are financing there for the purpose of dealing with the communist vietcong. these are the basic people of the country. they have escaped to us in order to avoid the terror and brutality of the vietcong. they have every reason to feel deeply angered by what the vietcong have done in raiding and ravaging camps and killing men. women. and children in cold blood. the vietcong certainly showed their hand. so this is an initiative which is critically important to our nation. i am convinced. from having been in vietnam. that our people there have left much too much to the saigon government. a government which is  nearly so sensitive to the refugee problem as we are and does  begin to understand. as we do. its great significance. my second point is this: when i returned. i urged the president to appoint a special representative who would have a title analogous to that given to averell harriman in connection with the marshall plan in 1948 and 1949. such a special representative would coordinate all the counterinsurgency pacification efforts of the united states. other than the military. and then. with the military. would adopt policies which would fit in with what the civilian agencies were doing. that effort is  being carried on by u.s. operations men in vietnam who are administering the aid program. by the u.s. information service. by the civil affairs section of the military forces. and by the cia. laudable as are the efforts of each agency. they must be tied together to do a complete job. i k that the president has appointed ambassador porter for the purpose. but i have seen little evidence so far of a strong hand to seize control of the situation in order to carry on the program effectively. finally. i urge the government most earnestly to expand the opportunities and goals for a political action training school at vung tao. southeast of saigon. where we are training 3.000 of the finest youth of vietnam to be cadres in villages and hamlets for general military purposes. and to give leadership in their efforts to bring an understanding of the objectives for which the entire south vietnamese people are fighting. i k of effort that should be higher in priority in all of vietnam. the goal for this year is to achieve a force of 43.000 of these young people. 23.000 having already been graduated. in the hope of pacifying a thousand or more additional hamlets in 1966. but there are 12.000 to go. i urge our government and our authorities to maximize this program promptly. because it deserves parity equal to the valorous military effort which our country is making in vietnam.
