s commission on civil disorders to create new educational. housing. health. and job opportunities for all our citizens. hing has divided the natiof as deeply as the war in vietnam. when it became obvious that our forces were taking over the major burden of the war. i broke decisively with the administration in february 1967. calling for a halt to the bombing of th vietnam to pave the way for peace negotiations and for the progressive deamericanization of the war effort. i have since urged a ceasefire and other measures to open the door to a negotiated settlement of the conflict and to end the deadlock in the paris peace talks. but vietnam was  alone among the crises: intervention in the dominican republic. the indiapakistan war. the invasion of india by communist china. the israelarab war. and the soviet invasion of czechoslovakia. in all of these. my activities were guided by a belief in the multinational approach. whether through the organization of american states. the united nations. or nato. as chairman of the political committee of the th atlantic assemblynato parliamentarians conferencei had warned against the precipitous withdrawal of u.s. forces from europe and called for establishment of a nato naval presence in the mediterranean to counter soviet designs in the mideast endangering israel and the entire area. i have continued to press for the javitssymington resolution emphasizing the need for direct negotiations between israel and her arab antagonists prior to any withdrawal by israel from occupied territories. there were some successes in international affairs. i was one of the principal supporters of the nuclear test ban treaty of 1963. i was the father of adela. the atlantic community development group for latin america which is a vast undertaking providing private multinational financing for local private enterprise efforts. it is widely hailed as one of the most important private achievements to aid the development of newly developing areas. as a leader in enactment of the trade expansion act. as an advocate for a latin american common market and as the author of a proposal for an international free trade area embracing most of the industrialized communist world. i have continued to work for expanded world trade because of its great benefit to new york and the nation. one of the greatest areas of achievement in the past 6 years was in the field of civil rights. i was gratified to be one of the leaders in the enactment of the landmark civil rights acts of 1964 and 1968 and the voting rights act of 1965. i have continued my efforts of 20 years duration to assure adequate federal funding of efforts to bring about genuine equal opportunity for all americans. this crusade for equal opportunity has  been focused on jobs as well as on efforts to reform and standardize welfare and eradicate poverty and hunger. i shall continue these efforts and also propose new programs to make full use of the private sectors and of local participation. the crisis of our cities has been burned into the conscience of the nation by literally hundreds of civil disorders. i have proposed a systematic approach to many of our urban ills. similar to the marshall plan used to rebuild europe. i am the author of proposals. such as the domestic development bank and the ecoic opportunity corporation designed to give u.s. business a decisive role in making our cities livable again. creation of new departments of housing and urban development and transportation had my active support and i was a cosponsor of the demonstration cities act and the urban mass transit act. all of which will do much to alleviate the plight of metropolitan man. one of the highlights of my current term was the enactment in 1965 of medicare. including my proposals to allow supplementary coverage for doctors bills and to include millions of older citizens  under social security. in that same year. congress passed legislation providing federal aid to elementary and secondary schools and i was one of the architects in working out the formula to accommodate objections that had delayed passage by focusing aid on children from poorer families. aher landmark achievement in 1965 was the act. which i helped draft. abolishing the arbitrary and restrictive immigration quota system and substituting a new and fairer system. my longstanding efforts for proposals forbidding age discrimination in employment were incorporated in a 1967 law. i was gratified to be a leader in the successful 1966 fight to increase the minimum wage. my efforts of many years culminated with the passage in 1965 of the national arts and humanities foundation act and of legislation establishing the national commission on automation. i also had great pleasure in helping create the fire island national seashore off long island. and in compensating the seneca nation of indians in western new york for treaty land taken from them for construction of kinzua dam. in the past 6 years. some 115 measures that i have sponsored and 71 that i have cosponsored have been enacted into law. in addition to 66 measures that i have either sponsored or cosponsored that have passed the senate. these are. in my judgment. the high points of my 6 years of service. but service is  written in the larger issues alone. it is also reflected in the daytoday debate and in voting on hundreds of issues of importance to new york and the nation. in addition. i am particularly pleased at the record of my offices in the state and in washington in answering the needs of my constituents and in helping literally thousands of new yorkers in their dealing with the federal government.
