i must add a corollary to that. if the senator will permit me to do so. it is that the utilization of the same amount of money under title ii begins so much better to reach the great numbers of persons who are involved that i think. taking the scheme of the proposed legislation in totality. it would be an improvident utilization of the funds which are devoted to title i. that is the totality of my argument. that is the argument i made in committee. i believe we have an opportunity to render a greatly needed service. i believe that the idea or concept of a corpslet us call it a domestic peace corps. because that is what it really iswhich is broken down by communities is an extraordinary idea. one well worth the support of congress. there is a delineation. based upon a survey made by the mayor of the city of new yorkmy home citywhich shows areas in which this kind of service can be very fruitfully rendered. the mayor of new york indicated a minimum of 1.800 jobs in departments and profit agencies in new york city alone. they include jobs in hospitals. libraries. schools. law courts. childrens homes. public housing projects. settlement houses. social and civic centers. day camps. recreational facilities. including playgrounds. and private community service agencies. such as the visiting nurses association. for example. there is a strong movement in my city to keep school buildings open after hours. but the difficulty is to secure personnel to supervise them. incidentally. these opportunities would afford employment to youths who otherwise might turn their attention to lawless activities. also. they would take off the streets youths who otherwise might give their attention to lawless activities. so i believe title ii is excellent. i am all for it. i should like to see title i and title ii combined. and the funds proposed to be used for title i used in title 1r. where they can be expended most ecoically in the best interest of the scheme of the proposed legislation. finally. the vocational training amendment. which i had the ho to sponsor. and which is on page 42. lines 3 to 12. of the bill. ties directly into title it. i am grateful to the senator from pennsylvania . who is in charge of the bill. for having accepted that amendment. i think we all feel that it was a measurable improvement in the bill. but it ties directly into title ii. and emphasizes the fact that we shall be training these young men for permanent roles in life.  merely to take them off the streets during the time they are enrolled in the program. it would also accomplish tying this program in with other programs. ably the area redevelopment program and the manpower retraining program. it would also make it possible to use some of the resources made available by this act in order to supplement what may be going on locally. in terms of vocational training. i think that would greatly strengthen the bill. finally. the local contribution is really reduced to a minimum. the formula is excellentas low as 25 percent. if the secretary of labor believes that a particular community can do any better. again i emphasize that the contribution is to be one in kind. so it seems to me this provision emphasizes the desirability of local interest. and any community in the country. matter how poor. will be able to find an inkind contribution of 25 percent for so desirable a program. a mixed federallocal program is always desirable. especially when it can be managed without deprivation to communities which are under par ecoically. so i think the plan is excellent. and i believe it will be strengthened if we combine titles i and iil if the motion to strike out title i. which i understand will be made by the senator from vermont. is agreed to. i shall move to combine titles i and ii and to increase the amount to $100.000. and to increase the various other amounts so that they will be sufficient to carry on a program of $100.000. rather than one of $60.000. i think we would then have a much better piece of legislation which would command a much greater majority both in this body and in the other body.
