. i rise to commendand supportmy able colleagues amendment to increase the minute man national historical park appropriation from the $1.5 million  allowed in the bill to the $2.5 million originally requested. skyrocketing land acquisition costs point up the urgency and ecoy of appropriating the full $2.5 million. the overall authorization for the park is $5 million. only $500.000 of which was granted in the 1961 appropriation. proceeding at this pace. it is doubtful whether this richly historic area can be preserved. the national park service has warned that there will be hing left of the famous stone walls which the minutemen used as protection when they fired on the retreating redcoats. because the expansion of population will crowd them out. if work is delayed. the cost could run two times as much as it is . in the interest of preserving the famous battle road and its rich heritage. and in the name of sensible ecoy. i urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this amendment.
. briefly let me review the matter. we have members who serve on the senate intelligence committee who travel around the world and spend a good deal of time with american intelligence agents both at home and abroad. they are fully aware that the most nagging problem facing our agentsone which elicits the greatest concern from those who lead the intelligence agencyis the fact that names of alleged agents are published freely by american citizens. as the dis. tinguished floor leader for the miity on this issue pointed out. we have tried in this legislation. whether it is the committees bill or whether it is in the amendment that senator jackson and i have proposed. to prohibit the publication of these agents names from three sources of publication. or potential sources of publication. the first category of person naming names is the person who had authorized access to information that identifies a covert agent. this person may work for an intelligence agency. the second category deals with those who had access to some secret information but they themselves did  have specific access to the name of a covert. agent. finally. you come to the most difficult group of persons naming names. this category includes those who did  serve or are  currently serving in an intelligence agency. and who do  have access to classified information. etheless they proceed to identify names of alleged agents through determined efforts on their part to ferret out the names of what might be agents. and then they proceed to publish these names. that is the cause of the problem. and that presents the difficulty we have here this aftern as we debate this legislation. can you punish someone who himself has never had access to classified information. who never. perhaps. served in an intelligence agency. but who. using unclassified documents. a whole series of them. carefully searches through them and ferrets out and produces names alleged to be intelligence agents. and publishes them. the senate judiciary committee came forward with language to take care of this problem with what i will refer to as the committee language. this language states: whoever. in the course of an effort to identify and expose covert agents with the intent to impair or impede the foreign intelligence activities of the united states . . . somebody goes out. he spends an incredible amount of time. he goes through a whole series of unclassified documents. and then with the intent to expose the name of an agent in order to impair the activities of the united states. goes ahead and pub. lishes these names. on the other hand. in the amendment that i will call up. the language is somewhat different. the language in my amendment says. "whoever. in the course of a pattern of activities intended to identify and expose covert agents and with reason to believe that such activities would impair or impede." as the distinguished senator from delaware mentioned. it seems we might be arguing and nitpicking over words here. one talks about the "intent" to impair the intelligence activities of the united states. and the other talks about "reason to believe" that the disclosure of these names would impair the intelligence activities of the united states. first. let me say this: we have been working on this entire subject  for over 2 years. i will say. how delighted i am that we have this legislation on the floor . in one way or aher it seems apparent that legislation is going to pass dealing with this problem. that in itself is a mammoth step forward. indeed. in the judiciary committee. the committee language passed unanimously. and the amendment that i presented barely failed by a vote of 8 to 9. but if it had passed i suspect that that language would have also been approved by the committee. in other words. one way or aher there is unanimity. i believe. in this body that we will pass legislation to curb the disclosure of the names of alleged agents working for our intelligence agencies. as i mentioned earlier. we have found this to be the principal sore spot with those who serve this country abroad. how is it possible. they say. that fellow americans can disclose names of alleged agents who are serving at their personal peril around different trouble spots of the world. why do we permit this to happen. when this legislation is passed. and the house has passed language similar to that in my amendment. and if my amendment prevails. which i hope it will. then we will  have to go to conference on this subsection. if my amendment fails. then we will go to conference. but one way or aher language is going to come out. an act is going to be passed by this body. that will wrestle in a determined manner with this problem. let me briefly give a bit of history. if i might. but before proceeding to that. let me call up my amendmeht. (by request of mr. dentqn the following statement was ordered to be printed in the record:)
. i am pleased to introduce legislation today to establish the blackstone river valley national heritage corridor. this bill provides national recognition to the blackstone river valley. the cradle of the american industrial revolution. the purpose of this measure is to preserve for the benefit and inspiration of present and future generations. the cultural. historical. recreational. and ecoic resources of the blackstone river valley corridor. this bill is  only important to the states of rhode island and massachusetts. but to the nation as well. the blackstone river begins in the city of worcester. ma. over its 46 mile course. it flows through 22 cities and towns. crossing the state boundary between massachusetts and rhode island. the blackstone canal. built in the 1820s. follows the western side of the river. the mills. villages. transportation networks. and social history of the settlers in the blackstone valley tell the story of the industrialization of 18th and 19th century america. from the blackstone valley. an appreciation of the larger national patterns of industrial development may be gained. the blackstone valley illustrates several historical themes that are. at present. underrepresented in the national park system. three factors distinguish the blackstone valley from other industrial regions. the valley is the first industrial region in the united states. the first widespread use of water power for industry in the united states occurred along the blackstone river. and lastly. the rhode island system of manufacturing developed here. the water power potential of the river and its waterfalls played an important part in the development of the blackstone valley. in 1793. an event occurred that would change the history of america. in that year. samuel slater constructed the first waterpowered mill in pawtucket along the banks of the blackstone. the american industrial revolution was born. by the 1820s and 1830s textile mills had been built at nearly every drop in the river. the rhode island system of manufacturing gradually evolved in these mills. entire families were recruited to work in the mills. the mills constituted the centers of company villages which typically included housing for the workers. a company store. the mill owners mansion. a church. a school. and small machine tool shops. as the industrial revolution took hold. entrepreneurs looked for ways to move their goods more cheaply. construction of the providence to worcester canal began in 1823 and was completed in 1828. the construction of the providence to worcester railroad along the river made the canal uncompetitive. and the blackstone canal quickly lost its prominence. however. the impact of the canal on the development of providence. worcester. and the towns and villages of the valley was considerable. in 1983. congress requested that the national park service assess the national significance of the blackstone river corridor. the national park service prepared a report. "conservation options." to address future options to conserve the blackstone valley corridor. the draft report suggests the develoment of an interstate heritage protection plan complimented by an expanded level of .federal recognition. support and technical assistance. the legislation i am introducing today builds upon the research of the national park service and the efforts of the departments of environmental management in rhode island and massachusetts. rhode islands blackstone citizens advisory committee. and other interested parties. this bill provides national recognition for the corridor. lending distinction to this important project. a commission is established to develop a unified historic preservation and interpretation plan for the corridor in rhode island and massachusetts. the commission shall operate for 5 years and will assist in the marketing and implementation of the plan. for example. the commission will assist in the restoration of historic buildings. the preservation of the canal. or the reconstruction of the towpath. it will assist in the design. creation. and maintenance of the visitors centers. the operating budget for the commission will  exceed $500.000 per year. the department of interior will provide technical support to the commission. four employees from the department of the interior will be assigned to the commission to enable it to carry out its responsibilities. a startup grant of $2 million will be appropriated to the commission for developing visitors centers or interpretive facilities for the heritage corridor. the blackstone river valley national corridor has enthusiastic support in both rhode island and massachusetts. the rhode island senate has unanimously passed a resolution in support of this designation. the massachusetts legislature has established the blackstone river and canal heritage park. in addition. there are a number of programs at the state level in rhode island and massachusetts to encourage ecoic development. sound environmental management and historic preservation in the blackstone river corridor. in 1984. a citizens advisory committee was formed to advise state planners in rhode island on the establishment of a blackstone linear park. similarly. in massachusetts. the blackstone river and cankl commission was formed to help direct the planning and design of a state heritage park along the blackstone. the blackstone river valley corridor promises to be both educational and recreational. the river itself will be the center of the park. visitors centers. displays. presentations. and brochures will explain the techogy. transportation and culture of the valley. visitors will have the opportunity to explore operational mills. such as slaters mill and the stanley woolen mill. as well as the ruins of old mill towns. recreational trails for walking. biking. and horseback riding will be developed along the rivers edge. canal barge rides and caing will be available. the railroad line. which once carried goods up and down the valley. will carry park visitors. incorporated into the park will be beautiful natural areas like the valley falls marshes in rhode island. a haven for wildlife adjacent to the most densely populated city in new englandcentral falls. the blackstone gorge is a spectacular area offering the best whitewater caing in rhode island. the blackstone river corridor was once one of the most heavily industrialized regions of the nation and has potential for further ecoic expansion and modernization. establishment of the heritage corridor may provide the stimulus required to retain existing industry and to provide further industrial growth and commercial revitalization. - national designation helps to assure that the cultural. historical. natural. and recreational resources of the corridor realize full potential. we can help to establish a legacy of the past as well as develop a vision for the future of the valley. with our assistance. the vision of a renewed blackstone valley and park can become a reality. i hope the senate will give the matter expeditious and favorable consideration.e by mr. grassley:
. i am pleased to introduce legislation today to establish the blackstone river valley national heritage corridor. this bill provides national recognition to the blackstone river valley. the cradle of the american industrial revolution. the purpose of this measure is to preserve for the benefit and inspiration of present and future generations. the cultural. historical. recreational. and ecoic resources of the blackstone river valley corridor. this bill is  only important to the states of rhode island and massachusetts. but to the nation as well. the blackstone river begins in the city of worcester. ma. over its 46 mile course. it flows through 22 cities and towns. crossing the state boundary between massachusetts and rhode island. the blackstone canal. built in the 1820s. follows the western side of the river. the mills. villages. transportation networks. and social history of the settlers in the blackstone valley tell the story of the industrialization of 18th and 19th century america. from the blackstone valley. an appreciation of the larger national patterns of industrial development may be gained. the blackstone valley illustrates several historical themes that are. at present. underrepresented in the national park system. three factors distinguish the blackstone valley from other industrial regions. the valley is the first industrial region in the united states. the first widespread use of water power for industry in the united states occurred along the blackstone river. and lastly. the rhode island system of manufacturing developed here. the water power potential of the river and its waterfalls played an important part in the development of the blackstone valley. in 1793. an event occurred that would change the history of america. in that year. samuel slater constructed the first waterpowered mill in pawtucket along the banks of the blackstone. the american industrial revolution was born. by the 1820s and 1830s textile mills had been built at nearly every drop in the river. the rhode island system of manufacturing gradually evolved in these mills. entire families were recruited to work in the mills. the mills constituted the centers of company villages which typically included housing for the workers. a company store. the mill owners mansion. a church. a school. and small machine tool shops. as the industrial revolution took hold. entrepreneurs looked for ways to move their goods more cheaply. construction of the providence to worcester canal began in 1823 and was completed in 1828. the construction of the providence to worcester railroad along the river made the canal uncompetitive. and the blackstone canal quickly lost its prominence. however. the impact of the canal on the development of providence. worcester. and the towns and villages of the valley was considerable. in 1983. congress requested that the national park service assess the national significance of the blackstone river corridor. the national park service prepared a report. "conservation options." to address future options to conserve the blackstone valley corridor. the draft report suggests the develoment of an interstate heritage protection plan complimented by an expanded level of .federal recognition. support and technical assistance. the legislation i am introducing today builds upon the research of the national park service and the efforts of the departments of environmental management in rhode island and massachusetts. rhode islands blackstone citizens advisory committee. and other interested parties. this bill provides national recognition for the corridor. lending distinction to this important project. a commission is established to develop a unified historic preservation and interpretation plan for the corridor in rhode island and massachusetts. the commission shall operate for 5 years and will assist in the marketing and implementation of the plan. for example. the commission will assist in the restoration of historic buildings. the preservation of the canal. or the reconstruction of the towpath. it will assist in the design. creation. and maintenance of the visitors centers. the operating budget for the commission will  exceed $500.000 per year. the department of interior will provide technical support to the commission. four employees from the department of the interior will be assigned to the commission to enable it to carry out its responsibilities. a startup grant of $2 million will be appropriated to the commission for developing visitors centers or interpretive facilities for the heritage corridor. the blackstone river valley national corridor has enthusiastic support in both rhode island and massachusetts. the rhode island senate has unanimously passed a resolution in support of this designation. the massachusetts legislature has established the blackstone river and canal heritage park. in addition. there are a number of programs at the state level in rhode island and massachusetts to encourage ecoic development. sound environmental management and historic preservation in the blackstone river corridor. in 1984. a citizens advisory committee was formed to advise state planners in rhode island on the establishment of a blackstone linear park. similarly. in massachusetts. the blackstone river and cankl commission was formed to help direct the planning and design of a state heritage park along the blackstone. the blackstone river valley corridor promises to be both educational and recreational. the river itself will be the center of the park. visitors centers. displays. presentations. and brochures will explain the techogy. transportation and culture of the valley. visitors will have the opportunity to explore operational mills. such as slaters mill and the stanley woolen mill. as well as the ruins of old mill towns. recreational trails for walking. biking. and horseback riding will be developed along the rivers edge. canal barge rides and caing will be available. the railroad line. which once carried goods up and down the valley. will carry park visitors. incorporated into the park will be beautiful natural areas like the valley falls marshes in rhode island. a haven for wildlife adjacent to the most densely populated city in new englandcentral falls. the blackstone gorge is a spectacular area offering the best whitewater caing in rhode island. the blackstone river corridor was once one of the most heavily industrialized regions of the nation and has potential for further ecoic expansion and modernization. establishment of the heritage corridor may provide the stimulus required to retain existing industry and to provide further industrial growth and commercial revitalization. - national designation helps to assure that the cultural. historical. natural. and recreational resources of the corridor realize full potential. we can help to establish a legacy of the past as well as develop a vision for the future of the valley. with our assistance. the vision of a renewed blackstone valley and park can become a reality. i hope the senate will give the matter expeditious and favorable consideration.e by mr. grassley:
. i would like to talk a little bit about those senators with whom i have had the privilege of working. i start off with the majority leader. as i have said so many. many times. there is ody in this senate who ks this legislation better and is more eloquent in discussing it than the majority leader. senator mitchell. i think it is only fair to say it is his baby. he has been nursing this along for years. as a mater of fact. he has constantly protested that he does  want to make a lifes work out of it. and i am glad that he longer has to make a lifes work out of it. although there is a conference where we will be calling upon him. senator baucus. from montana. who is the chairman of the subcommittee and the floor manager for this legislation. has done a terrific job. he has been patient. he has many times made painful votes that were perhaps contrary to what he believed. but the agreement was an agreement and he stuck with the agreement in order to get a bill. he overlooked the fact that perfection might lie down the road somewhere. that he had to make these votes. i tip my hat to him for what he has done. senator dole. on our side. made these tough votes and lead us along. mustered the votes. we would never have won some of these crucial votes. 49. 50. without the tremendous support of senator dole. senator durenberger was here all the time. he is an expert in some particular section where we turned over the. leadership. certainly on this side. toxic air emissions. for example. he was tremendous. and the same for senator jeffords from vermont. i would like to also include what we might call the allowance twins. i mentioned them before. senators domenrcr and gramm. so it has been a great pleasure to work on this legislation. we are  through yet. we have many more rows to hoe. particularly in the conference and what follows thereafter.
. it has the endorsement of the gover. of other state and local officials in new jersey. of businessmen. of conservationists. and of cxiv- 661part 8 thousands of interested citizens. when field hearings on the proposal were held last year. 6.212 individual letters and wires were received and all but two were in support of the wilderness area proposal for the great swamp. the bill before the congress is a simple one. it would place about 3.750 acres of the swamp in a national wilderness area. the area to be so protected includes sections of land kn as the m. hartley dodge and harding wildernesses. at present these areas are part of the great swamp national wildlife refuge which is administered by the u.s. department of the interior. because the dodge and harding units are. in effect. "roadless islands" with unusual ecological features. and are within a national wildlife refuge. they qualify for protection under the wilderness act. this protection would preserve them in their present wild state forever. buildings would be permitted. access would be by foot or horseback only. wilderness area designations are the surest guarantee we have against encroachments on the natural wonders of our land. such designations are made by acts of congress and. therefore. can only be changed by congress. this contrasts with national wildlife refuges which are created by a special commission and placed under control of the interior department. as past experience has shown. this protection. as good as it is. can be vulerable to political pressures. the great swamp needs all the protection it can get. since 1959 the port of new york authority has sought to convince the public that the swamp is the ideal site for a new global jetport the port authority wants to build in the metropolitan area. i and others have strongly opposed location of a jetport in the great swamp. largely because of this opposition. reinforced by the state legislature. the port authority proposal for the swamp has  gotten to first base. the port authority proposal in 1959 did. however. trigger a nationwide effort to save the great swamp. more than a million dollars was collected and with it some 3.000 acres acquired for donation to the federal government as part of a great swamp national wildlife refuge. the refuge was established in may 1964 and eventually will consist of about 5.800 acres. including lands that are being purchased by the federal government. more than half of the 5.800 acres will comprise the new wilderness area. the remainder of the refuge will continue to be managed by the interior department to enhance its use by migratory and nesting waterfowl. supporting it as it does a wide variety of plantlife and animal and bird species. the swamp is a priceless outdoor laboratory and classroom for scientists and scholars. in addition. it serves as a source of enjoyment for those simply interested in viewing the wonders of nature. moreover. the swamp is important to the water supply of the region. by holding ruf waters and releasing them gradually. the swamp exercises a beneficial influence on the level of the passaic river. in this context. it is a natural helpmate in the fight against flooding or pollution of the passaic. the great swamp is both "unique and the last of its kind." in thern new jersey. according to the department of the interior. the swamp also has been described as an island of beauty in the midst of a sea of increasing urban ugliness. it is that and more. if congress acts promptly. large portions of this unique natural wonder can be preserved untouched for the enrichment of present and future generations.
. 97 years ago today the battle of gettysburg was raging in all its full and terrible violence. americans from every part of the nation were on the field that day to shape history. and america would never be the same again. but from that crucible would go forward to become a great union of free men. we longer think of those men as therners or southerners but only as americans. and we are proud of every one of them. for theirs was the strength and dedication that we hope will endure in all generations of americans. if ever there was a symbol of america it is the gettysburg battlefield. yet today that symbol is in great danger of being tarnished by the negligence and indifference of congress and the nation. funds are needed to preserve and maintain the battlefield. and they are needed . while some private organizations are making a laudable effort to arouse interest in this problem and to collect money. i submit that this is properly the responsibility of the federal government. and on this day i hope we will ackledge and face up to this responsibility. new york had more men on the battlefield those three historic july days than any other state. it was a new york general. general sickles. who lost his leg there and later became the congressman who first introduced legislation to make gettysburg a national military park. as a senator from new york 97 years later i wish to serve ice to the congress and to the people that i shall do everything within my power to see to it that gettysburg is saved for all time. i shall press for whatever federal funds are necessary to do the job properly and in its entirety. for this project should  be undertaken piecemeal or halfheartedly. i seek the support of every senator and representative in this undertaking. let us appropriate the funds and enact the legislation which will make the field of gettysburg truly a national shrine for ourselves and our children. one of the chief obstacles to the proper preservation and visual realization of the historic battlefield of gettysburg is the interspersion of private lands among federally owned park lands. these private lands are threatened with or may even be in the process of development. many of the scenes of significant fighting and heroic actions are still privately owned. monuments and memorials to gallant regiments stand in the dooryards of motels and souvenir stands. automobile junkyards occupy the sites from which hardy artillerymen poured forth their volleys of shell and canister. the land across which earlys confederate division made its decisive attack on the first day still looks much as it did in july 1863. but it is about to be sold and will undoubtedly be subdivided and soon covered with houses and shops. completely destroying the scene where gen. john b. gordon. c.s.a.. dismounted to offer a drink from his canteen to the seriously wounded gen. francis barlow. youthful 1st division commander of the union xi corps. and to see that he was given medical care. in the field of picketts charge. surely an epic in the military history of the whole world. are isolated private tracts surrounded by federally owned land. other such inholdings are located near the wheatfield where the incredible sickles lost his leg and aroused a mighty controversy. and they dot the fields of the first days fight as well. some such tracts have already sprouted undesirable and distracting developments. others could do so at any time. if a national military park is to fulfill its dual purposes of inspiration and education. it must help the visitor visualize the scenes of heroism and sacrifice which it commemorates and make those scenes vivid in his mind. it can do this if he is constantly distracted by glaring modern intrusions which so alter the scene that it can be recaptured. in order to prevent such destruction at gettysburg. the national park service estimates that. for a properly rounded out park adequately protecting the original historic battlefield scene. approximately $2.750.000 will be required at todays prices. approximately 600 acres are involved. this would eliminate the inholdings in areas already largely federally owned. protect the important scenes of the first days battle. provide buffer strips to keep undesirable commercial developments a minimum distance from important monuments and buildings. and include rightsofway for the roads and trails necessary to permit the visitor to reach the specific sites which he wishes to see. significantly. this acreage is far less than that originally visualized by the commission which was appointed to establish the area as a national military park in 1896. these men. many of them veterans who had fought at gettysburg. planned for the optimum in protection for the historic field. only a portion of their program has been carried out through the succeeding years. and the present plans of the national park service represent merely a basic minimum that must be acquired if this scene of one of the worlds decisive battles is to be preserved. the preservation of the field of the first days fighting at gettysburg presents one of the most difficult problems. the climactic event was the attack of earlys confederate division along the harrisburg road in the aftern. here the union line was finally outflanked and driven back across the lands of the county poor farm. through the town itself to positions on cemetery hill. it was during this phase of the fighting that some of the most dramatic events of the day took place. the wounding of the youthful barlow and his succor by general gordon has already been mentioned. the two men remained fast friends. it was on these fields also that the body of a union soldier clutching a photograph of a group of small children was found by burial parties. since there was other means of identifying the man. the photograph was published throughout the th until the family was located. public reaction to the poignant search was such that an orphanage was established at gettysburg with gifts sent in by individuals who had been touched by the story. this land is still the adams county poor farm. and it has changed little from its appearance in 1863. recently. however. it has proved unecoical for the county to operate. and the land is to be sold. according to law. it must go to the highest bidder. the county can dispose of it in other way. it has authority to donate it to the federal government. in an effort to cooperate. the county authorities have delayed selling the property for 2 years in order to allow the united states to obtain the land. thus far. however. the national park service has been specifically forbidden by congress to purchase this property.
it deeply concerns me. as it deeply concerns the senator from montana. i am concerned in exactly the same words and with exactly the same degree of emotion and feeling as he is concerned. i am delighted that he gives me the opportunity to state precisely what i mean. what i mean is that i join with the senator from montana in evaluating the reasons. as compared with the alternatives. that the senator from montana proposed to us. i believe that the risk is  so great. or that. at least. in evaluating the risk. we should  be so greatly concerned about the risk as the alternative. i used the word "scare" because of the awful. and quite properly awful. alternative which is presented. should there be a conflict. it is my judgment that the alternative which is presented leads us down a road which is more likely to end in conflict and the very holocaust which the senator suggests. i feel that way as sincerely as the senator from montana feels precisely the other way180 degrees the other way. what i was trying to convey was  that the senator from montana was scared or that i was scared. or that there was any thought of cringing. or that the senator was trying to scare us. i was trying to compare the risks which we would be accepting. i agree that there is the risk. and i join witl the senator in pointing out to the american people that there is this awful risk. etheless. i feel that the alternative which the senator presented to us was less desirable under those circumstances and was more likely to lead us afoul of the risk than standing where we are. at least at this time. on berlin. as i recommend doing. again. i welcome the opportunity the senator from montana has given me to make that viewpoint as pinpointed and as crystal clear as language can make it. i was only thinking of the balancing of alternatives. while joining with the senator in his alternative that we would run a risk.
. apparently wellauthenticated reports in our press state a continuance by the u.s.s.r. of interference with air traffic from west germany into berlin through the corridors traditionally reserved for such traffic of united states. british. and french aircraft. soviet planes are stated to have scattered aluminum foilchaffin "a new attempt to interfere with western radar communications" and the same news dispatch in the new york times today states: for the second day in a row. the russians flew military transports in the southern berlin air corridor at heights and times set aside for allied commercial air traffic. we are told by the new york herald tribune that russian military night flights will follow. these petty and mischievous anances. which can jeopardize the safety of passengers and crews of allied aircraft. are unworthy of a great power. which is the reputation the u.s.s.r. claims in the worldi k that personally. having been there at the end of last yearand in my view are equally unworthy of being tolerated by us as a great power. we must be unequivocal about demanding that they cease. if they do  i see little use in continuing the conference at geneva on the theory that we are negotiating with a great power. geneva might just as well be wound up . whatever may be the differences between the soviet union and ourselves about berlin. and however deeply we may feel that we must maintain our position on berlin. certainly both we and the u.s.s.r. can agree that the issue is a great one and it should  be reduced to the petty vexation and anance stage which only demeans all concerned and demeans the issue itself.  should the u.s.s.r. be allowed to bring it to that level. we will be losing hing at geneva if we go home because the russians persist in such petty anance. indeed we will be gaining something in putting into focus the issues between ourselves and the communist bloc if we refuse to allow these issues to be demeaned in this way for the channels of communication must be kept open. but i do  believe that it is conducive to ultimate success in negotiations to tolerate petty meannesses which for substantive reason tend to make all who participate either on the giving or receiving end look ridiculous. hence i think the russians should be called to their senses on this point in uncertain way. hing will be lost and something may well be gained for future negotiations. i conclude upon the following e: a nation that wishes us to accept the fact that it is seriously interested in competitive but peaceful coexistence and a nation whose leader. chairman khrushchev. can get quite as excited as he did in paris in 1960 about the u2 flights. can seriously expect us to tolerate the sense or pettiness that characterizes this hitandrun interference with the use of the berlin air corridors. we have learned the hard way that plain speaking to the russians is the best course if we are ever to understand each other and to come to some permanent accommodation. i hope the report of the colloquy between rusk and gromyko as it appears on the front page of the new york herald tribune. in which the secretary of state is said to have spoken plainly. is true. if it is  true. i hope that secretary of state rusk performs precisely in the way described. that is the way in which we ought to deal with a petty matter of the character reported in the article as between one power which wants to be considered great and one powerourselveswhich i am confident is great. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record an article entitled "soviet again drops foil in berlin lanes." published in the new york times. issue of march 14. and also an article entitled "backstage story at geneva: which is real khrushchev.-phone moscow about berlinrusk tells red." by marguerite higgins and published in the new york herald tribune. issue of march 14.
madam president. i am most pleased to join my colleague and senators williams of new jersey. case. clark. and scott in introducing a bill to authorize an appropriation of a sum  in excess of $50.000 to make a survey of a proposed national parkway in the. states of new york. new jersey. and pennsylvania. reaching from stroudsburg. pa.. theast to kingston. n.y. there has been of late a good deal of interest in reexamining the proposal to extend the skyline drive thward through parts of pennsylvania. new jersey. and new york. the regional chamber of commerce council. representing the seven tristate area countiesorange. ulster. rockland. and sullivan. in new york. sussex and passaic in new jersey. and pike in pennsylvaniahas adopted a resolution urging a study of the feasibility of extending such an interstate highway. in 1935. the national park service made a preliminary study of possible parkway locations through the appalachian mountains. extending from shenandoah national park theast through the shawangunkkittatinny region. the study consisted of a possible map location and reconnaissance. it is believed that a reexamination would reveal new areas for ecoic growth and recreational opportunities. the boards of supervisors of all the affected new york counties. as well as other new york groups. have indicated their interest in such a study. the development of this parkway. with its proximity to metropolitan areas. would attract great numbers of tourists and add to the scenic and recreational facilities close to large population centers of the eastern part of this country as well as to the employment and ecoic development of the areas. it hardly needs restatement that the improvement of outdoor recreation and the development of a national parkway program in conjunction with recreational areas of the populated theast have been a long range objective of both the congress and the department of the interior. i am hopeful that this study may result in a meaningful interstate highway project which would contribute to the ecoic growth of the communities concerned and to the overall improvement to the national highway system.
. let me say that it always is important to e the credentials with which people speak. in that respect the long and the short of this situation is simply that civil disobedience is  warranted in new york. but that is what this situation comes down to. these are  valid demonstrations within the 18th amendment or showing of the deep feelings of negroes about grave injustices to which they have been subjected for years--yes. and in new york. too. withstanding new yorks laws. the new york laws are  perfect.  are they perfectly enforced. although certainly the new york laws lead those of the rest of the nation. and the enforcement of the new york laws leads the enforcement of the laws of the rest of the nation. but civil disobedience is justified only in a revolutionary situationin a situation in which the processes of law have broken down. and in which there is neither the will  the ability to enforce the laws. however. that is  the case in new york. so i have sympathy for those who attempt to engage in such actionwhether by stalling cars on the roads. by letting water out of faucets. or by other means. once such action is determined upon. of course the variations of it could be almost infinite. almost anyone would be able to dream up others. however. it is obvious that if a great majority of the people in a given community are opposed to such action. a small miity can continue such manifestations of civil disobedience. i am addressing myself to the great body of opinion on this critical subject. i do  k about the motives of anyone. motives do  matter. for all i k. my colleague is absolutely correct in his conclusions on that question. i respect him emously.  do i put any strength in the fact that the proposed action may or may  influence the congress. someone else in some other city or state may embarrass us in the debate. but the ground on which i place my argument is that the proposed action would be demeaning to the cause. and it is  deserved by the people. the state. or the city of new york. who are really trying to act positively on the subject in a way which is unparalleled in our nation. when something is done which is  deserved and which people have a right to resent. and when something is done which demeans a cause. then it is harmful and it hurts. it hurts the very people. whose aspirations are as good as anyones. but who are perhaps misguided in engaging in this very type of civil disobedience. valid. peaceful demonstrations are protected in new york. as they should be. we shall fight to our very last breath. with ability and courage. to see that demonstrations in the typical american spirit are  suppressed or thwarted. even by unconstitutional laws in some cities or states. which properly should be covered in the pending bill. but. as i have said. civil disobedience will demean the cause and bring emous resentment from people who should  resent and should be for the measure all the way as they have demonstrated in election after election and in their support in the city and the state of new york. i am hoed and privileged to join with my colleague. again i say that there is one in the country who has the cause more deeply in his heart than he or i. i am hoed and privileged to join with him in expressing this advice or. if the term is preferred. this plea. by making this statement of policy to the people of our state and to the great majority of the wise. sensible. and dignified negroes who were such an important part of the march in washington on august 28 of last year. which was the embodiment and the very epitome of what ought to be a demonstration. and was more effective than any other single thing that has been done in our nation in that respect. the demonstration was right. that is the way to do it. let 500.000 new yorkers demonstrate in new york their deep feeling on a subject in a suitable place. even central park. that is still  civil disobedience. which is what i disapprove of. as a senator from the state of new york. i am privileged to be able to state that on the floor of the senate
. i join my other colleagues in expressing appreciation to the public works subcommittee of the appropriations committee. which facilitates the important public works projects in my state. i wish to call attention to committee action which i feel is especially important. and to commend this action to the consideration of the full senate. i have long been concerned with the future of long island sound and with the impact which the sound has on every aspect of life in the new york and connecticut areaan impact which affects the ecoics of the area as well as recreational pursuits and- the general environmental balance. as an outgrowth of this concern. senator ribicoff and i arranged hearings on long island to discuss the proper role of local. state. and particularly federal interests in planning for the development of long island sound reflecting the needs of industry. transportation. recreation. and residential housing. for these reasons. i was most pleased to e that the subcommittee considered and funded a $1.6 million appropriation request for the comprehensive study of long island sound to be conducted by the new england river basin commission. and i commend this action highly. the matter of the new york harbor drift removal project has been a long and continuing concern of mine. the port of new york is the leading port of entry in our country. we have. however. 2.000 abandoned hulks and piers around the harbor which present an eyesore as well as a great danger both to port traffic and to the proper functioning of the sewage disposal system of the city of new york. last year. when the public works appropriations bill was being considered on the floor of the senate. i said regarding this project: we hope very much that the office of management and budget. appreciating the broad congressional support for this particular program. will allow us to go ahead. first on the ground of urgent necessity in the port and. second. to improve in so critical a place a measure of the environment and the quality of its water resources and the need to revitalize the waterfront. . all of which. i might add. areor should bevital concerns of the federal establishment. this year the committee stated: apparently little if any action has been taken toward processing the report of the secretary of the army. which is required before the office of management and budget can release the money for this project. thus i was pleased to e. and i fully support the action of the committee in requesting that it be furnished a copy of the report for its information and that the secretary of the army complete his action on the report at the earliest possible date. the tocks island dam and reservoir project which was authorized in the 1962 rivers and harbors billpublic law 87874has generated. almost since its authorization. a great deal of public interest and controversy over the effects which it will have on water quality. fish and wildlife habitats. and the recreational benefits of the area. on february 7. 1972. i wrote to russell train. chairman of the council on environmental quality thatthe conclusion reached by the environmental protection agency that a eutrophication hazard does exist for this proposed tocks island lake is sufficient reason for congress to seek to assure itself that a specific program will be developed to correct the conditions which will lead to eutrophication. that sufficient funds will be committed to carry out this corrective program. and that legally binding commitments will be established to assure the orderly carrying out of the necessary programs. and on june 26.1972. i wrote to chairman stennis to advise him that my position on this matteris to support the house committee position which implements the position of the council on environmental quality that opposes the dam until a program is effected to correct the eutrophication and draw down hazards. thus. i was pleased to e that the senate committee gave full consideration to and supported the house position that all moneys requested and previously appropriated for construction purposes be applied instead toward an accelerated program of land acquisition in the project area. lastly. i want to thank the chairman. senator stennis. and the ranking republican member of the subcommittee. senator hatfield. for their understanding of the problems of my state. and the consideration which they have shown in this as in many other areas.
. i will use 2 minutes then on the issue so that the senate may understand. what happened was that we received hing out of the $700 million we ordered appropriated by the bill we passed with respect to the railroad roadbed issue. when the matter came back here. the senator from arkansas . with the greatest  only sympathy but passion explained to us that he was deeply. even devastatingly disappointed. but that this was such an emous bill. having so many difficult issues at stake. that withstanding the fact that the house of representatives was unlikely to act on what we were going to do. he felt that we better take it as it was and then fight on aher day when we would be in a better position. that was because the house of representatives was going home. if we turned the conference report. or at least that particular item in disagreement down at that time. many government departments might be in difficulty. et cetera. i felt supported strongly by the senator from indiana . the only reason i took the lead was i think he did  happen to be in the chamber at that particular point. but it is his subcommittee of the committee on appropriations that dealt with this matter. i felt at least the senate ought to make a decision. the house of representatives had made the decision to turn us down by a rollcall vote. i felt the senate ought to make the decision that it would or would  run this risk that things would get bollixed up in the federal government during the recess. we took the vote. and it was decisively in favor of standing fast. i was tremendously proud of the senate. i am sure the senator from indiana
