second. there are two issues here. and i think they. are quite simple. the first issue is whether the consumer is going to be represented either in formal or informal proceedings. under the committee bill. in almost 98 percent of the cases the consumer would  be represented. since they are informal proceedings. the moorhead amendment would. however. permit a consumer to be represented to a somewhat greater degree in formal proceedings. the committee bill bars cpa intervention on behalf of the consumer if the proceeding seeks "primarily to impose a fine. penalty or forfeiture for an alleged violation by any defendant or respondent therein of a statute of the united states or any rule. order or decree promulgated thereunder." let me just say that of the 378 formal proceedings last year. every single one of them sought "primarily to impose a fine." therefore. under this language. the cpa would have virtually authority to intervene on behalf of consumers. . the moorhead amendment opens the door for cpa intervention in formal proceedings. it narrows the language prohibiting cpa intervention only in adjudicatory proceedings if they relate "directly to the decision to impose any criminal fine. penalty. or forfeiture." further. regarding informal proceedings. the moorhead language permits the cpa to study informal proceedings to intervene in themfor the purpose of reporting to congress on their effectiveness. these informal proceedings. as i have said. are really the crux of the question. if we pass the committee bill. unamended we will be saying to the cpa: "you can even look at questions that are of importance to the consumer. let alone intervene on the consumers behalf." what that means is that we will be saying that the cpa can even study questions of how much desa growth hormonecan be put in beef. whether preservativesbht--can be put in bread. or what the effect of sodium nitrate is in hotdogs. and it means also that we will be telling the cpa that they can so much as study questions of vehicle defects involving car and truck safety. truth in lending or truth in packaging. and flammable fabric toy hazards. the committee bill. therefore. gives the cpa authority in the huge majority of cases. the moorhead amendment would at least permit the study and reporting of these cases. it unfortunately does  permit cpa intervention on behalf of consumers in this area. i wish it did. i certainly think that consumers have the right to be represented. in sum. this first issue regards representation of the consumer. that is the first question. the second oneand there have been a number of attempts here today to cloud the factsis whether information on trade secrets or income. tax returns will be made available to the public. the moorhead admendment does  change existing statutes at all. as regards information going to congressional committees. that is presently provided for in 6103 of the internal revenue code. under that section. such information does  go to the ways and means committee. among others. but only in executive session. there is hing in this bill or in the amendment that permits public disclosure of information which must be held in confidence. in addition. i would like to point out that section 209 of the bill we are discussing today says. and i quote: any instrumentality created by or under this act shall  disclose to the public any information . . . in a form which would reveal trade secrets and commercial or financial information obtained from a person and privileged or confidential .... my colleague from new york said yesterday that this provision does  cover information revealed by the cpa to. for instance. a committee of congress. that although it prohibits the cpa from having a press conference and releasing the information. it does  prohibit the cpa from giving the information to a congressional committee in. for instance. an open hearing. and thus indirectly releasing information to the public. my understanding of the language in section 209 is very different. the cpa "shall  disclose to the public" any trade secrets. and so forth. clearly. this means that the cpa is prohibited from testifying in open hearings on secret trade matters. since if it did so. it would be disclosing such information to the public. prohibited by section 209. i certainly believe in the confidentiality of such trade secrets. and so forth. but i can see that any language that we are proposing here today would allow them to be released to the public. therefore. i urge. strongly. support of the moorhead amendment in the interest of the american consumer.
i would just like to say. . that it seems to me we have to do everything we can to hold the spending down. i k the senator from indiana is conscious of that. i just take a little mi item here. state boating safety assistance. on page 12. here the budget estimate was $3 million. the house allowance was $4 million. and the senate came in with $6 million. . we are all for every such program that comes before congress. but i just wanted to indicate some concern that these programs always. inevitably. seem to have to go up. i have just chosen that as a mi item. i will admit that $3 million is  going to change the course of government. we just appropriated more than $2 million for a road for the state of kansas. on a voice vote. a few minutes ago.
madam president. first. i want to pay tribute to the distinguished chairman of our subcommittee for the very able leadership he has given in this matter and to say what a pleasure it was to work with him through all the hearings and the markup on this bill. i have considered it a district treat. also. madam president. i want to pay tribute to the chairman of our full committee who has given us very able leadership. and the ranking miity member. senator stafford of vermont. both of them have been very. very helpful. as was pointed out by the chairman of our subcommittee in his remarks. these gentlemen have long experience in improving the road and highway system of our nation. madam president. the chairman of our subcommittee presented an excellent summary of the federal aidhighway act. of 1978. i wish to associate myself with his views on this bill and say that he and i have agreed on most of the major provisions through the subcommittee deliberations and through the full committee deliberations. at this time. i want just to touch briefly on some of the major features of the legislation. i believe the provisions to speed completion of the interstate system are extremely important. for example. as was pointed out. those states that do  use their funds within 2 years. those funds are lapsed back into the trust fund so that the states who are prepared to move ahead can do so. that is a new provision in this act. i believe that it will prove very effective. taken together. the changes in the funding procedures should insure that states receive funds equal to their capability to move ahead with interstate construction. these provisions will reduce the large sums of money tied up on projects that the states are  yet ready to move on. aher provision in this bill also requires the states to make final decisions by september 30. 1982. on which routes they will proceed. in other words. the thrust of this measure is to get on with the construction of the interstate highway program. as the chairman pointed out.  we have 90 percent of the mileage of this program built90 percent. yet 33 percent of the funds for this program have to be spent on the last 10 percent of the program. that is  because the last 10 percent is the most difficult section. it is because the delays have caused these remaining sections. the last 10 percent. to rise in price through inflation. through escalation. through all the problems that we are familiar with. by 1986. these routes or substitutes must be under construction or completed. firm dates for these decisions are needed. as less definite deadlines in both the 1970 and 1973 highway acts have been ineffective. the country has been preoccupied too long with completing the interstate system. it is time to get a fresh perspective on highway and transportation needs and the appropriate federal role in meeting these needs. as the chairman has mentioned. the mere cost of highway construction has gone up over 200 percent in the last 7 years. so what we have done in this bill is to require that the routes be chosen by september 30. 1982. and by 1986 these routes or substitutes have to be under construction. in other words. let us get on with it. people might say. "well. there might be delays." and so forth. we have  allowed any exceptions in the 1986 deadline. . we have to reconsider this bill every 2 years. so. if there are problems. we can consider those as they come up. but we say to the states. "get on with it. if you delay. you delay at your own risk." as our nation grew. madam president. and the population shifted during the last several decades. we planned and designed extensive new highway systems. when this program started. there was plenty of land around. environmental laws were  yet passed. costs were lower. people wanted the roads built. we wanted to connect the communities. encourage the flow of commerce from city to city. but  we need to redirect our thoughts to the way of making more efficient use of highways already in place. this involved increased attention to maintaining. improving and adapting our roads. official and uficial reports from around the country. as has been mentioned by the chairman. suggest that portions of the interstate are already badly deteriorated. the federal highway administration report estimates the costs of needed resurfacing and reconstruction of the older sections of our interstate amount to some $2.6 billion. so the committee considered this and we continued the authorization of the socalled 3r program. for restoration. resurfacing. and rehabilitation. in addition. we have strengthened the requirements that states adequately maintain the interstate routes. these requirements reflect the committees view that there is an overriding national interest in maintaining these expensive interstate highways at their peak efficiency. what we want to do is to squeeze the highest possible productivity out of the 40.000some miles already in existence. while current funding for the 3r category of resurfacing. rehabilitation. and restoration is relatively low. in future years this will be a greater part of our concern. the needs for interstate reconstruction may vary from year to year and the states will still want to have the flexibility to use these funds in the most productive manner. this bill. s. 3073. provides this flexibility by permitting states to use the 3r funds on other primary roads whenever interstate needs have been met. aher important thing we have done here. madam president. is that we have reduced the federal share for the interstate 3r from 90 percent to 70 percent. we might say. "well. if we are anxious to keep the roads repaired. why cut down the share of the federal contribution." the federal share for the primary system is already 70 percent. by making the state matching requirements for the interstate and the primary systems the same. we should eliminate any temptation for a state to undertake low priority interstate work instead of doing needed primary work. in other words. we are looking at the whole highway system as a unit and. certainly. we have seen many instances in the states where they will proceed to upgrade and do useless and. indeed. wasteful projects on the interstate system because it is 90percent federal dollars. in other words. it only costs the states 10 cents. so they go ahead and spend the money. there is aher measure in this bill to discourage unwise use of federal funds. the states are prohibited from spending interstate construction funds to clear zones adjacent to existing interstate roads. under existing regulations. the states can use the 90percent funds to eliminate trees and other natural features from within 30 feet of the interstate highways. i am personally very familiar with such projects which were undertaken.  because these obstacles 30 feet from the edge of the highway had a high priority on the states list. but because. again. the state wanted this easy federal money. one pays for the federal money. so that the states take it and spend it in devastation of the sections adjacent to highways. so this bill requires that where they want to do these types of measures. the state has to put up 30 percent of the cost. this should insure that this type of work will only be done where needed and  as a mere means of using up federal dollars. during hearings the subcommittee heard from several witnesses that heavy vehiclesin other words. those carrying large amounts per axle and large amounts per vehicledo damage to the highway to a far greater extent than more numerous. but lighter vehicles. the heavier the vehicle and axle loads. the higher the vehicles contribution to road deterioration. this is a proven fact. several provisions in the bill address this problem. states for the first time are permitted to use federalaid funds to purchase and install scales for monitoring vehicle weights. up to this time. we have  permitted the federal dollars to be so used. the scales are expensive and a lot of states have  built scales. as a matter of fact. my state is one of those. also. the secretary of transportation is clearly given authority to require documentation from the states to show that they are adequately enforcing weight laws. unfortunately. they are  doing it. and. if they do . they can lose their federal aid assistance. finally. two studies are called for. one requires the secretary to evaluate the effect and desirability of reducing those state weight limits which are currently in excess of the 80.000 pounds which the federal highway system mandates. what happened is when we put in this program we grandfathered in certain states and let them have higher than the 80.000pound limit. the question  is whether we should permit those states to continue to have those higher weight trucks running on their highwaysthey are  their highways. they are our highways since they are federal aid highways. we started off. madam president. by requiring that those states come down to the federal limit. but i must say. we received considerable mail from our states. and calls. so we said. "all right. we will have a study on it." it is my hope. before we rewrite this bill 2 years from . that we will have have the information and recommendations on how best to limit road damage caused by excessively heavy vehicles. the second study involves cost allocation. it will examine existing revenue sources of the highway trust fund to determine if taxes on the various classes of highway users are equitable. what is the tax on trucks. is it fair. the tax on automobiles or tires. are all these fair. such a study will be useful in distributing tax burdens among highway user classes. in addition. this study should lay the foundation for evaluating indirect costs of highway transportation. this could lead to more informed decisions on federal investments in various transportation modes. i do believe there is much that can be done to improve decisions on transportation investments at all levels of government. madam president. i was sorry that an effort to consolidate transit and highway planning procedures was  successful. in other words. there was a suggestion that we combine the planning for transit and the planning for highwayput them all in one package. since it is all transportation. the exact requirements of the planning procedure were less important to me than the need to show that the federal government regards transit and highways as complementary and  conflicting programs. in other words. look at them together and do  have them compete. under existing federal programs. transit and highway planning funds are distributed by different procedures. and there is an implication that the planning for the two programs is different. this is detrimental. in my judgment. to the creation of an integrated planning process. which is so badly needed in urban areas. the section included by the subcommittee and adopted by the banking committee in the federal public transportation act of 1978. s. 2441. would provide a single funding process for transit and highway planning. i think this could be useful. the committee bill does add some specificity to the statement of goals in the existing planning provision. on my motion. the committee agreed to make it explicit that the lessening of certain adverse social. ecoic. and environmental effects are goals of our national transportation policy. in my judgment. we need to make our transportation systems "good neighbors" to the people and the communities they serve. many of our cities are old and polluted. they need revitalization. the competition. as has been mentioned by our chairman. for the national budget. our dollars. is intense. scarcity of energy supply is on our minds. as can be seen from the fuel efficiency standards for autos and incentives for carpools. so we can any longer build in a vacuum. senator bentsen has ably described other provisions of this act. i think the bill responsibly addresses bridge needs. which are a serious problem in many states. the program and funding changes should produce major improvements in the effectiveness of the program. also. i am in complete agreement with the provisions for program consolidation and increased transferability among categories. one of the things we have to fight against in these highway programs is to have a little money for this and a little money for that and a little money for the third thing. that is  necessarily in the best priorities in the states. so we combine the money as much as possible in this bill and let the states use it where they think it would be most productive. a final major thrust of this bill. as senator bentsen mentioned. is in the whole area of funding levels and federalstate involvement. the federal share of interstate federal highway projects was 50 percent up to 1973. then it went up to 70 percent. this year. there is a push to go to 80 percent. as a matter of fact. the administration so recommended. but we resisted that. where are we going to stop. we want to see the states get the maximum amount of highways built for the limited amount of federal money there is. and we feel strongly that the federal share should be restricted to 70 percent on the interstate state programs. i must say that i suspect we are going to be under a good deal of pressure to push that up. but i think it is well to bear in mind that the federal government  only has a limited amount of money. but also. we are running a tremendous deficit--some $40 billion to $50 billionso i think the federal share should be kept at 70 percent. one last general issue deserves discussion: overall funding levels contained in the bill. the committee made a conscientious effort to relate authorizations to expected highway trust fund revenues. in other words. we are spending more than we will have coming in from the various taxes that go into the highway trust fund. the senate bill thus far can approximately be supported by current highway taxes. cars will consume less gasoline. and less money will come into the trust fund.  taking into account fuel efficiencies soon to be realized. the congressional budget office indicates that the senate bill may require an increase in revenues of less than 2 percent. authorizing a program  which is based upon anticipated increases in the gasoline tax or some other anticipated tax increases is irresponsible. i do  think anybody believes that an effort to increase the gasoline tax over the 4 cents per gallon is going to pass congress. madam president. this is a good bill. it strikes a balance between needs and revenues. it insures that states and the federal government remain partners in the highway building enterprise. finally. it makes adjustments in overall program structures to recognize new priorities. i urge my colleagues to support the federalaid highway act of 1978. madam president. i reserve the remainder of my time.
if i might continue. please. that is a quote from the secretary of transportation. the point we are making here. . is that. first of all. this proposal that we have before us presents a fiscal issue. in that there is already a question whether there is going to be adequate funding for the highway programs that are already in place. second. it is very clear that the appalachiar. states that are going to receive this money have already received some $3 billion extra. outside of what the rest of the nation gets. for roads. finally. to suggest that states that have roads that are hauling coal get hing out of it seems to me to be a very odd suggestion. obviously. the states are receiving a return in the form of taxes and jobs. to ask the federal government to step in and cover this as an added bonus seems to me to be stretching it a little far. i thank the senator.
. i am pleased to join senator hollings as a cosponsor of legislation that would restore $46.3 million in badly needed funds to the operating budget of the u.s. coast guard. congress originally appropriated $1.3 billion for operating expenses for the coast guard in fiscal year 1982. while this is $20 million more than the amount appropriated for the previous fiscal year. inflation. higher costs. and unanticipated expenses have increased the coast guards operating budget significantly. in recent years. the coast guard has taken on new. more challenging. and increasingly expensive responsibilities. in addition to the important and traditional rescue missions. the coast guard patrols our 200mile limit for fishing violations by foreign countries. patrols our coastline for drug smugglers. trains seamen. licenses and inspects boats. and assists with boating safety programs. with these responsibilities. coast guard resources and manpower have been stretched to the limit and beyond. without these funds. the coast guard will be forced to lay off 1.000 people by april 1. and an additional 2.400 positions will have to be eliminated by september 30 of this year. my state of rhode island will be hard hit by this shortage of funds. a merchant marine license certification office in providence will be closed. requiring seamen to travel to boston for testing. certification. and renewals. vessel documentation offices in providence and newport will be closed. again. rhode islanders will have to travel to boston for these services. rhode island will also be affected by many of the cuts in the new england region as a whole. a plane stationed at cape cod that is used for search and rescue missions. as well as for spotting oil spills. will be decommissioned. security and boating safety offices in nearby massachusetts and connecticut will be closed. two cutters stationed in new england are being decommissionedthis in addition to the fact that aher new england cutter is being used off the florida coast in search of refugees. the $46.3 million provided in this legislation will  overcome allof the funding problems hampering the coast guard. it will. however. help tide them over this difficult time and help keep many important services such as these from being curtailed. i am pleased to join with senator holu and other members of the senate in support of this bill and am hopeful that we can complete action on this measure quickly.e
. i strongly support the interstate highway funding act of 1985 and want to commend senators symms and stafford for their efforts in shaping this important legislation. it is fitting for this to be one of the first major pieces of legislation to be considered in the senate during the new congress. legislation to approve the apportioning of highway funds to the states was one of the main pieces of unfinished business of the 98th congress. passage of this legislation grows more crucial each day. the nations program of interstate highway construction is nearly at a standstill because for the past year. congress has been unable to approve the interstate cost estimate and interstate substitution cost estimate. the failure of congress to approve these measures promptly could delay the start of this springs construction season and further damage the federalstate partnership which has put highway dollars to work on important road systems across the united states. in december 1982 we passed landmark legislation which nearly doubled the gasoline tax from 4 to 9 cents per gallon in order to increase the federal investment in highway and bridge repair. in order for the federal highway -program to remain viable. construction and repair dollars from the highway trust fund must be made to the states in an orderly and dependable manner. last year we found ourselves mired in a legislative quagmire due to disagreements over special interest projects and other issues. this delay has depleted the highway funds available for obligation by the states and it threatens the longterm stability of the highway program. transportion secretary elzabeth dole has indicated that passage of the ice and isce is a top priority of the administration. and the nations govers and state transportation officers have alerted us to the need to press ahead on this measure. in approving this measure today the senate also has its first opportunity to take action to reduce our nations massive federal budget deficit. reducing the deficit is unquestionably our top domestic priority this year. members of congress from both parties agree that we must adopt a balanced program of spending reductions in order to avert the ecoic crisis posed by the deficit. it is essential for each committee to examine carefully the programs within its jurisdiction. and to recommend savings wherever feasible. this measure includes an amendment which i offered. and which was unanimously approved by the committee. to reduce the obligations limitation of the highway program for fiscal year 1986. through our ability to adjust the obligation ceiling. the highway program is made an accountable part of the federal budget process. a limitation on obligations is the most equitable way of reducing federal outlays through the highway program. since it permits states to continue their highway and bridge activities according to each states priorities. the bill  before us will reduce the obligation from the current level of $13.25 billion to $12.75 billion. this action will give us outlay savings of $285 million in fiscal year 1986. growing to $891 million in fiscal year 1987 and $258 million in fiscal year 1988. or $1.4 billion in savings over a 3year period. this is a modest but important first stop in transforming our words about the deficit problem into action to resolve it. this legislation also includes a number of important provisions designed to make the highway program more responsive to state and local problems and priorities. its passage is extremely important to the longterm effectiveness of the program. i hope that it can be approved promptly in order that a conference can be scheduled with the house at an early date.
. i support this legislation to end the delay in approval of highway construction and repair funds which are urgently needed by the states. our nations user supported highway program is nearly at a standstill because for the past year. congress has been unable to. approve the interstate cost estimate and interstate substitution cost estimate which trigger funding apportionments to the states. this delay had damaged the federalstate partnership which has put highway dollars to work on important road systems across the united states. the chief impediment to passage of this legislation has been a dispute over the inclusion of special demonstration projects which dramatically inflate the cost of the bill. raising the prospect of a veto and jeopardizing the longterm stability of the highway trust fund at the expense of all states. recently the senate approved s. 391 which provided for approval of an 18month ice and isce. as well as several other modifications intended to make the highway program more responsive to state and local problems and priorities. chief among these is section 131. a provision i sponsored to permit flexibility for the states in undertaking projects with funds in the interstate transfer category. section 129 of s. 391 provides for a reduction in the obligation limitation of the highway program in order to reduce federal outlays and contribute to reduction of the deficit. reduction of our nations massive budget deficit is clearly the  1 domestic priority of congress this year. and every segment of the federal budget must be carefully examined in an effort to achieve savings wherever feasible. in approving s. 391. the senate made a modest but important start in reducing the deficit. by lowering the obligation ceiling for fiscal year 1986 from the current level of $13.25 billion to $12.75 billion. this action would give us savings of $285 million in fiscal year 1986. growing to $891 million in fiscal year 1987 and $258 million in fiscal year 1988. or $1.4 billion in savings in a 3year period. when i sponsored this provision in the committee on environment and public works it was approved unanimously. i believe there is substantial support in the senate  only for this provision but for a number of other policy improvements in s. 391. although passage of h.r. 1251 will delay the adoption of these important improvements. it is clear that our insistence upon them at this time could lead to further delays in the approval of the ice. the senates primary goal has been to restore the flow of highway funds to the states without harming the overall integrity of the highway program. if h.r. 1251 and its accompanying legislative language had affected the legal status of any specific highway project. this goal could  be met. however. the secretary of transportation has indicated that hing in the bill enhances or detracts from any specific project. its approval thus permits us to release the highway funds to all states without furthering the special interests of any single state. if we fail to approve h.r. 1251 at this time. we will likely find ourselves in the same legislative quagmire which has held up the approval of highway funds for the past year. i believe many of the policy provisions of s. 391 should be pursued through other legislative vehicles. i am pleased that the obligation limitation provision of s. 391 has been included in the draft budget document currently under consideration by the senate budget committee. it will be my intention to press for the approval of this provision to lower the highway obligation ceiling at the earliest opportunity this year. as part of the budget process. as an amendment to the department of transportation appropriations measure for fiscal year 1986. or on some other legislative vehicle. i hope my colleagues wil join in supporting this legislation.e
. i am pleased to join senator specter in offering this amendment which restores funding for amtrak at 1(1 percent less than the fiscal year 1985 level. the leadership budget package eliminates funding for amtrak. this amendment continues funding at a level 10 percent lower than fiscal year 1985. thus adding $616 million in budget authority in .fiscal year 1986 and maintaining this level in fiscal year 1987 and 1988. amtrak was created in 1970 with the goal of gradually becoming self sufficient. i support efforts to lessen amtraks reliance on federal subsidies. however. from an ecoic standpoint.  is  the time to end abruptly our commitment to a national passenger rail system. the taxpayers investment in amtrak is finally beginning to pay off. amtrak has become a modern. reliable. and efficient method of transportation. operating costs have declined 26.6 percent between 1981 and 1985. revenues are at an alltime high in an extremely competitive environment. the proportion of amtrak costs borne by passengers has increased from 48 percent in 1978 to 58 percent today. next year it is projected to be 60 percent. the taxpayer is getting more and better service for the money. to terminate abruptly amtrak service would leave thelaxpayer with financial obligations in excess of the required subsidy for years. while the government has invested $3 billion in amtraks modernization. any proceeds due to amtraks liquidation would be minimal. in addition. approximately 25.000 railroad employees in 44 states would be unemployed. labor protection liabilities to displaced employees would approximate $2.1 billion over 6 years. the first year liabilities alone would be $684 million. equal to the total federal outlay for operations: dissolution of amtrak would pose a hardship to those who use the system regularly. amtrak serves 500 communities and 20 million customers. in my home state of rhode island. total 1.84 ridership was 416.287. in the theast corridor. elimination of amtrak would pose serious problems for our already congested highways and airports. ultimately. additional federal investments would be required for airport and highway construction. elsewhere. amtrak may be the only reliable public transportation available. one hundred sixtyone of the communities served by amtrak have air service. 52 have intercity bus service. and 29 have air or bus service. a passenger rail system is an integral part of our transportation network. trains can carry more people more efficiently than any other travel mode. trains can operate in extreme weather conditions. trains provide an important alternative to congested highways and airports and lessen americas dependence on oil. without amtrak. the united states would be the only developed country in the world without intercity rail passenger service. support for amtrak from the federal government should continue. this amendment will restore funding for amtrak at 10 percent less than itd current funding levels. in order to achieve savings and contribute to reduction of the deficit while maintaining amtrak service. the..administration has insisted that amtrak should be immediately abolished in order to help reduce the federal deficit. others seem ready to increase spending for amtrak. iging the need for restraint in all segments of the budget. this amendment recognizes the need for spending restraint while preserving amtrak service. we should do everything we can to make amtrak eventually selfsufficient. however. the overnight termination of amtrak would  serve the national interest. i hope my colleagues will join in supporting this amendment.
. i strongly support the interstate highway funding act of 1985 and want to commend senators symms and stafford for their efforts in shaping this important legislation. it is fitting for this to be one of the first major pieces of legislation to be considered in the senate during the new congress. legislation to approve the apportioning of highway funds to the states was one of the main pieces of unfinished business of the 98th congress. passage of this legislation grows more crucial each day. the nations program of interstate highway construction is nearly at a standstill because for the past year. congress has been unable to approve the interstate cost estimate and interstate substitution cost estimate. the failure of congress to approve these measures promptly could delay the start of this springs construction season and further damage the federalstate partnership which has put highway dollars to work on important road systems across the united states. in december 1982 we passed landmark legislation which nearly doubled the gasoline tax from 4 to 9 cents per gallon in order to increase the federal investment in highway and bridge repair. in order for the federal highway -program to remain viable. construction and repair dollars from the highway trust fund must be made to the states in an orderly and dependable manner. last year we found ourselves mired in a legislative quagmire due to disagreements over special interest projects and other issues. this delay has depleted the highway funds available for obligation by the states and it threatens the longterm stability of the highway program. transportion secretary elzabeth dole has indicated that passage of the ice and isce is a top priority of the administration. and the nations govers and state transportation officers have alerted us to the need to press ahead on this measure. in approving this measure today the senate also has its first opportunity to take action to reduce our nations massive federal budget deficit. reducing the deficit is unquestionably our top domestic priority this year. members of congress from both parties agree that we must adopt a balanced program of spending reductions in order to avert the ecoic crisis posed by the deficit. it is essential for each committee to examine carefully the programs within its jurisdiction. and to recommend savings wherever feasible. this measure includes an amendment which i offered. and which was unanimously approved by the committee. to reduce the obligations limitation of the highway program for fiscal year 1986. through our ability to adjust the obligation ceiling. the highway program is made an accountable part of the federal budget process. a limitation on obligations is the most equitable way of reducing federal outlays through the highway program. since it permits states to continue their highway and bridge activities according to each states priorities. the bill  before us will reduce the obligation from the current level of $13.25 billion to $12.75 billion. this action will give us outlay savings of $285 million in fiscal year 1986. growing to $891 million in fiscal year 1987 and $258 million in fiscal year 1988. or $1.4 billion in savings over a 3year period. this is a modest but important first stop in transforming our words about the deficit problem into action to resolve it. this legislation also includes a number of important provisions designed to make the highway program more responsive to state and local problems and priorities. its passage is extremely important to the longterm effectiveness of the program. i hope that it can be approved promptly in order that a conference can be scheduled with the house at an early date.
. i support this legislation to end the delay in approval of highway construction and repair funds which are urgently needed by the states. our nations user supported highway program is nearly at a standstill because for the past year. congress has been unable to. approve the interstate cost estimate and interstate substitution cost estimate which trigger funding apportionments to the states. this delay had damaged the federalstate partnership which has put highway dollars to work on important road systems across the united states. the chief impediment to passage of this legislation has been a dispute over the inclusion of special demonstration projects which dramatically inflate the cost of the bill. raising the prospect of a veto and jeopardizing the longterm stability of the highway trust fund at the expense of all states. recently the senate approved s. 391 which provided for approval of an 18month ice and isce. as well as several other modifications intended to make the highway program more responsive to state and local problems and priorities. chief among these is section 131. a provision i sponsored to permit flexibility for the states in undertaking projects with funds in the interstate transfer category. section 129 of s. 391 provides for a reduction in the obligation limitation of the highway program in order to reduce federal outlays and contribute to reduction of the deficit. reduction of our nations massive budget deficit is clearly the  1 domestic priority of congress this year. and every segment of the federal budget must be carefully examined in an effort to achieve savings wherever feasible. in approving s. 391. the senate made a modest but important start in reducing the deficit. by lowering the obligation ceiling for fiscal year 1986 from the current level of $13.25 billion to $12.75 billion. this action would give us savings of $285 million in fiscal year 1986. growing to $891 million in fiscal year 1987 and $258 million in fiscal year 1988. or $1.4 billion in savings in a 3year period. when i sponsored this provision in the committee on environment and public works it was approved unanimously. i believe there is substantial support in the senate  only for this provision but for a number of other policy improvements in s. 391. although passage of h.r. 1251 will delay the adoption of these important improvements. it is clear that our insistence upon them at this time could lead to further delays in the approval of the ice. the senates primary goal has been to restore the flow of highway funds to the states without harming the overall integrity of the highway program. if h.r. 1251 and its accompanying legislative language had affected the legal status of any specific highway project. this goal could  be met. however. the secretary of transportation has indicated that hing in the bill enhances or detracts from any specific project. its approval thus permits us to release the highway funds to all states without furthering the special interests of any single state. if we fail to approve h.r. 1251 at this time. we will likely find ourselves in the same legislative quagmire which has held up the approval of highway funds for the past year. i believe many of the policy provisions of s. 391 should be pursued through other legislative vehicles. i am pleased that the obligation limitation provision of s. 391 has been included in the draft budget document currently under consideration by the senate budget committee. it will be my intention to press for the approval of this provision to lower the highway obligation ceiling at the earliest opportunity this year. as part of the budget process. as an amendment to the department of transportation appropriations measure for fiscal year 1986. or on some other legislative vehicle. i hope my colleagues wil join in supporting this legislation.e
. i am pleased to join senator specter in offering this amendment which restores funding for amtrak at 1(1 percent less than the fiscal year 1985 level. the leadership budget package eliminates funding for amtrak. this amendment continues funding at a level 10 percent lower than fiscal year 1985. thus adding $616 million in budget authority in .fiscal year 1986 and maintaining this level in fiscal year 1987 and 1988. amtrak was created in 1970 with the goal of gradually becoming self sufficient. i support efforts to lessen amtraks reliance on federal subsidies. however. from an ecoic standpoint.  is  the time to end abruptly our commitment to a national passenger rail system. the taxpayers investment in amtrak is finally beginning to pay off. amtrak has become a modern. reliable. and efficient method of transportation. operating costs have declined 26.6 percent between 1981 and 1985. revenues are at an alltime high in an extremely competitive environment. the proportion of amtrak costs borne by passengers has increased from 48 percent in 1978 to 58 percent today. next year it is projected to be 60 percent. the taxpayer is getting more and better service for the money. to terminate abruptly amtrak service would leave thelaxpayer with financial obligations in excess of the required subsidy for years. while the government has invested $3 billion in amtraks modernization. any proceeds due to amtraks liquidation would be minimal. in addition. approximately 25.000 railroad employees in 44 states would be unemployed. labor protection liabilities to displaced employees would approximate $2.1 billion over 6 years. the first year liabilities alone would be $684 million. equal to the total federal outlay for operations: dissolution of amtrak would pose a hardship to those who use the system regularly. amtrak serves 500 communities and 20 million customers. in my home state of rhode island. total 1.84 ridership was 416.287. in the theast corridor. elimination of amtrak would pose serious problems for our already congested highways and airports. ultimately. additional federal investments would be required for airport and highway construction. elsewhere. amtrak may be the only reliable public transportation available. one hundred sixtyone of the communities served by amtrak have air service. 52 have intercity bus service. and 29 have air or bus service. a passenger rail system is an integral part of our transportation network. trains can carry more people more efficiently than any other travel mode. trains can operate in extreme weather conditions. trains provide an important alternative to congested highways and airports and lessen americas dependence on oil. without amtrak. the united states would be the only developed country in the world without intercity rail passenger service. support for amtrak from the federal government should continue. this amendment will restore funding for amtrak at 10 percent less than itd current funding levels. in order to achieve savings and contribute to reduction of the deficit while maintaining amtrak service. the..administration has insisted that amtrak should be immediately abolished in order to help reduce the federal deficit. others seem ready to increase spending for amtrak. iging the need for restraint in all segments of the budget. this amendment recognizes the need for spending restraint while preserving amtrak service. we should do everything we can to make amtrak eventually selfsufficient. however. the overnight termination of amtrak would  serve the national interest. i hope my colleagues will join in supporting this amendment.
 if i may continue. we are making the choice between having some extra concrete projects that are  included in the states priority list. e of the states are prepared on their own to pay for these projects. these socalled demonstration projects in the various states. e of them are prepared to do it. that is why these congressmen have inserted in these special projects. because they will  be funded by the states themselves. . here is the choice: to do something about proper prenatal care. to do something about infant mortality. to do something about college education. or to pour extra concrete in various demonstration projects around the country. i for one opt to do something to help our lowincome and other students in america go to colleges and universities so they can get their education to improve the health of our citizens. there are those who stand here and argue. "oh. it is from a trust fund and a trust fund can be. used if it is  used for highways. it can be used for anything else." everyone who has been in this senate any length of time ks that we work under a unified budget and. whether we like it or . an expenditure from the social security trust fund. from the airport trust fund. from the highway trust fund. counts as an expenditure. and that is outgo. that is what contributes to the deficit of the united states. we have  any concern at all about these other social programs which have to be funded by the budget and thus will add to the expenditures. unless we can some way make a savings such as in this highway program. the deficit will continue to go on and we will be constrained about doing something about those worthwhile human programs. is there an alarm system. maybe it does  make any difference. spend from the highways and in addition take care of all these other needs. here is the omlngus sign. we knew it was coming unless we mended our ways. the prime rate goes up a quarter of 1 percent. the first increase since 1984. and if other people can see a foreboding in that for the ecoy of this nation and for the ability of the united states to compete abroad. and if they can see that this is a threat to american jobs all over. then they are  alert to what is taking place. second. we have had these dire warnings. indeed. the distinguished senior senator from new york has pictured a cataclysmic event occurring in the world never mind a national recession. it appears there will be a worldwide recession unless the presidents veto is overridden. well. rarely do i think that what the distinguished senior senator from new york states on this floor is sense. but this comes perilously close to it. is there anybody that suggests that there will be highway bill whatsoever. is the senator from new york and others who sit on this committee saying: "all right. thats it. i am picking up my bat and going home. you didnt give us what we wanted so. therefore. that ends it.". i have had the privilege to sit on that committee for some 12 years. i have sat on this conference and indeed on this highway bill. i signed the conference report and i voted for the bill on the floor. so i am for a highway bill. but when i voted on the floor. i said if we get aher chance to straighten out this legislation. i will take it. i voted every time in the conference. as the senator from new york ks. against those special interest projects. those socalled demonstration projects. but in order to get a bill. as did others. i went along and i voted for it on the floor so we would have legislation. but  we have aher chance. the president. under the constitution. has the right to veto legislation and he chose to veto this giving us a chance to straighten this out. i say to all here that we should seize this opportunity. it is  going to be this tremendous delay. if it is such a delay. the blame will rest right over there. right on the other side. because they have control. they are the majority. they can pass a bill if they want. if we sustain this veto at 11 oclock. they can proceed immediately to new legislation and bring it before this body and have it passed. go to conference and produce something so that it would meet the requirements that are necessary to satisfy the president. as well as get going with this. proceeding with our highway construction.  4 30"1 so i do  believe in this chicken little proposal. "the skies are falling. the skies. are falling. 800.000 americans will be out of work." that. it seems to me. does  do justice to the ability of this body and the other body to arrive at a compromise and proceed with a highway bill that will get us proceeding with the construction of needed roads in this nation. so there it is. first of all. we are threatening the prosperity of this nation unless we do something about this budget. and this omis e in the newspaper today about the increase in the prime rate threatens us all. second. we have to have a choice. we have to have priorities. the priorities of this senator are to take care of the young people. see that they get an education. see that they remain healthy. provide housing for the elderly people. look after the elderly.  make cuts in medicare. that is a proposal that is before us. what is the choice here. who is going to opt for cutting medicare.  this senator. who is going to opt for cutting medicaid.  this senator. who is going to opt for cutting into the wic program. or the child and maternal health program.  this senator. who is going to cut college aid and tuition grants.  this senator. i believe in every one of those programs and they have to be paid for. and if savings can be made. here is where the savings can be made right in this highway program we have before us. with overi forget the exact numberi think it is something like 190 special interest projects.
. what this does is it takes $40 billion over the 5 years that is  going into the general treasury and puts it into the highway trust fund with. obviously. the assumption that it is going to be spent. in effect. what we are doing here is adding $40 billion to the deficit of the united states. i just dont think. when we are in this effort of trying to balance the budget. that this is the right step to take. do we all want to have more highways. of course. we do. indeed. it falls under the very committee of which i am the chairman. i dont think at this time. when we are making these efforts to balance the budget. that we want to take $40 billion over 5 years going into the general treasury and spend it in this manner. so i hope the amendment will be defeated.
senator roth. as i k you are aware. because of the 1990 and 1993 reconciliation acts. our important freight railroads are forced to pay a 5.55 cents per gallon fuel tax into the general treasury for deficit reduction. all other modes of transportationhighway. air. wateronly pay 4.3 cents per gallon for this purpose. this is an obvious inequity. while reducing the federal budget deficit is an important goal. if the transportation industry is to be singled out. the burden of achieving a balanced budget should be shared equally among all modes of transportation. i am particularly concerned because s. 949 would transfer the deficit reduction taxes paid by highway users. including truckers which compete with the railroads. into the highway trust fund. placing additional highway deficit reduction fuel taxes into the highway trust fund for highway improvements would exacerbate the already inequitable situation. placing the railroad industry at an even more unfair competitive disadvantage. in essence. the railroads would continue to contribute to deficit reduction. while their competitors would instead contribute to their own infrastructure. the house has similarly proposed putting the aviation fuel taxes into the airport and aviation trust fund for airport infrastructure improvements as part of its tax reconciliation legislation. . this injustice against americas railroads must be remedied at our earliest opportunity. i would ask the distinguished chairman of the finance committee if he would be willing to seek a solution to this railroad deficit reduction fuel tax problem during the conference with the house on tax reconciliation legislation.
madam president. i want to call to the attention of my colleagues. both here on the floor and elsewhere. that there will be a domenicichafee amendment which will provide a simple. fasttrack method to increase highway spending without requiring an entire new istea bill. so lets put to rest the suggestion that all kinds of complications are going to have to be gone through in order to increase highway spending under the bill that is before us. plus the amendment that senator domenici and i will submit. so. therefore. you say. whats the difference. whats the difference between the two bills. domenicichafee provides a fasttrack method to provide additional funding and the socalled byrd bill. byrdbaucuswarergramm bill says there will be increased funding for highway spending. but. let me just tell you the difference. madam president. what the byrd bill says. it says. . what the contract authority will be. and since that is to be apportioned in just the present proportions that exist amongst the states. that applies a chart immediately that will go out. telling each state what it will get for each successive year. there is a hitch there. though. thats a promise. it appears. but the sponsors are stressing that it is  a promise. that the appropriators do  have to provide that amount of money. here is the problem under that approach. i just look here on page 2. "authorization of contract authority: there shall be available from the highway trust fund . . . to carry out this subsection [$5.x billion] for fiscal year 1999." $5.471 billion the next year. on and on it goes until it gets up to $5.781 billion. that is contract authority. and. absent something occurring. that is what the states will get. but the question is. is that what the appropriations are going to be. here is the hitch. every state department of transportation will look. as i say. at these amounts. everybody can figure out what their percentage is  and. since the promise is they are going to get the same percentage. we will figure lets see. what does rhode island get out of this. lets see. in fiscal year 2001 things look pretty good. you just take 5.573 billion. which is on top of the amounts we have already. the $21 billion. you just add that in and figure this is what we are going to get in rhode island. but rhode island is or maine. or montana or west virginiais  necessarily going to get these amounts which appear to be promises because they are  promises because the appropriators have to act. so. it seems to me the proponents of the bill are riding two horses here. one. they are saying to every state. you are going to get 25 percent more. isnt that wonderful. at the same time they are saying. oh. there are commitments. hing is done. we are  breaking the budget. we are just going to leave it to the appropriators. other programs can get what they want. the problem. it seems to me. is once you get these sums out there in contract authority. as is in the byrd bill. that every department of transportation. every gover will figure that is what is coming and there will be tremendous pressure on this body to come through on the promise. seeming promise. they will stress. rightfully. it is  a promise. but who ks what the requirements are going to be for the budget. on the budget in the year 2001. or 2002. or 2003. it may well bewe want to spend more on education. we may want to spend more on health care. it may be we want to cut taxes. but here this is locking us in. i k they will deny it is locking us in. why. contract authority. that is just there. you can change it. but i will guarantee by this time tomorrow every state will have a chart showing what they are going to get for 1999. 2000. 2001. 2002. and 2003. and it will appear to be a promise. that. to me. i believe. is a definite flaw in this measure.
 i believe in july. if the senate changes course and wants to increase spending in the budget resolution for next year. then i would assume an amendment to istea h to carry out that instruction would be adopted. third. senators should be careful about the sequence of these decisions. i believe that many senators have signed on to the socalled byrdgramm amendment without fully understanding all the subtleties. it does authorize massive amounts of additional spending. but it also restructures who has first claim to the funds that are actually appropriated. the byrdgramm amendment increases the share of the pie going to 13 appalachian regional commission states and to a trade corridor program that would benefit a few states. such as texas. their portion of the pie gets bigger. but if the pie itself does  grow because there is room in the budget for larger appropriations. the net effect will be that all the other states will go down. in other words. they are locked in at this increased amount for the appalachian regional commission states and this corridor dealing with the socalled nafta demands. that is locked in under the proposal that they have. and if we do  increase the overall spending. then theirs stays up there and it comes out of tha portion allocated to all the other states. a senator voting for byrdgramm  because he or she wants to increase highway spending authorization could actually cause his or her state to lose highway dollars if subsequent budget decisions do  provide for increased highway appropriations. so i urge everyone to be cautious on this matter. all these considerations have persuaded me that the wisest course is the one that senator domenici. chairman of the budget committee. has urged. lets make the spending decisions in the context of the entire budget. im ready to go with istea ii . i am more committed to getting istea done than any other member of this body. i want it completed. but i am willing to stand down for the time being because i believe the senate will make better public policy if it considers highway spending in the context of the entire budget rather than in the vacuum of these early days of the session. as the highways first group has been urging. i thank the chair.
. the one amendment on behalf of senator mccain deals with the commerce committees budget allocation. the other is on behalf of myself. and it is a truly technical modification of the bill by changing a site reference. it is necessary to comply with the contract authority levels for highway safety programs. both of these amendments have been cleared by both sides.
. i ask unanimous consent that the subcommittee on oceans and fisheries of the committee on commerce. science. and transportation be authorized to meet on thursday. march 12. 1998. at 2:30 p.m. on the fiscal year 1999 coast guard budget.
. we are  increasing the federal deficit. despite some of the statements that have been made in the various news media. for achieving these record funding levels for the highway program. senk ators byrd. gramm. warner and baucus deserve special recognition. as well as congressmen shuster and oberstar fiom the house. all of those members fought long and hard to ensure transportation would receive substantial increases over the original istea legislation. i k that the sums in this bill are large. and the press reports sometimes imply we spent too much. but i think we have to put all this into context. the bill authorizes. indeed. $218 billion. and i must say. that is a lot of money. as we all recognize. it is over 6 years. as i said. this represents a large increase over istea i of 1991. however. and i think this is an important point. only about 30 to 40 percent of the total projected spending for highways and transit by all levels of government is encompassed in this legislation. people come up to me and say. well. isnt that a lot of money to be spending on transportationthat is. highways. bridges and transit--over the 6 years. yes. it is a lot of money. but you have to realize it only represents about 30 to 40 percent of the total projected spending that will be done. where does the other spending come from. it comes from counties. it comes from states. it comes from cities that are doing things on their own. in addition to record authorization levels. this legislation made significant changes to the way we budget for transportation at the federal level. this legislation changed the budgetary treatment of the highway trust fund following the model set forth in a bill first introduced by senator bond. which i was pleased to cosponsor and work on with him. the socalled bondchafee legislation. this bill ensures that all federal gas tax revenues deposited into the highway trust fund* are spent on transportation programs. in effect. this bill reestablishes the linkage between the highway trust fund taxes and transportation spending that was envisioned when the highway trust fund was created. if future revenues to the highway trust fund increase. then under this legislation the highway spending will increase. and. of course. it works the other way. likewise. if the amount going into the highway trust fund from the various taxesprincipally the federal tax on gasolinedecreases. then highway spending. likewise. will decrease. . using congressional budget office projections. $198 billion of the total funding for highway and transit programs will be guaranteed under the new budget mechanism we have. of the $198 billion. $162 billion is for highway and highway safety programs and 336 billion is for transit programs. it is important to e that this historic change which reestablishes the linkage between the trust fund moneys and trust fund spending was all accomplished within the balanced budget framework. we will keep the highway trust fund on budget as part of a unified budget and we will offset the increased spending with spending reductions in other programs. i want to thank senator bond for his tireless work on the socalled bondchafee proposal. which provides the underlying foundation for the budget reforms we implemented ip this legislation. i thank the cosponsors of the bondchafee proposal for their input. i also want to thank senator domenici and his staff for their work throughout the year and for their help in crafting the final budget mechanism that will become law later this aftern. i believe the original istea was a landmark piece of legislation. i have said that many. many times. however. it is true that in the 1991 legislation there were some shortcomings. particularly for the socalled do states. these were the states that put in substantially more into the trust fund than they got back. the original istea established a 90 percent minimum allocation program which was intended to guarantee that each state at least got back 90 percent of what that state put into the trust fund. the problem was that it didnt work. the 90 percent only applied to some of the programs and wasnt structured mathematically to achieve its goals. the old minimum allocation calculation applied to fewer than 80 percent of the programs. leaving some states to receive a percentage share that was equal to 70 to 80 percent of their share of contributions. in other words. a program that was designed to make sure that every state got back at least 90 percent failed. indeed. some states were left with between 70 plus up to 80 cents back on the dollars as opposed to the 90 cents. in this legislation. thanks to the leadership of senator warner and others in the senate. tremendous efforts were made to guarantee that each state would get backat least originally. we sought 92 percent. we werent able to achieve that under the formula. but we did come up so that every state got back 90.5 cents for every dollar that state put into the trust fund. at least. so the do states were put in far better shape than they previously had been under the old former legislation. other members of the environment and public works committee who played a key role in achieving this result were all very. very helpful. in addition. we had senators who were  on the committee who were very anxious about the program. senators
 my understanding is that the intent of this section is to -prevent the dollar amount of the minimum guarantee from growing out of proportion far beyond that which the conferees anticipate. the intent of the congress -is that state will receive less than a 90.5 percent rate of return on their gas tax contributions to the highway trust fund. of the funds distributed to the states which are covered by the minimum guarantee provision.
. what this does is it takes $40 billion over the 5 years that is  going into the general treasury and puts it into the highway trust fund with. obviously. the assumption that it is going to be spent. in effect. what we are doing here is adding $40 billion to the deficit of the united states. i just dont think. when we are in this effort of trying to balance the budget. that this is the right step to take. do we all want to have more highways. of course. we do. indeed. it falls under the very committee of which i am the chairman. i dont think at this time. when we are making these efforts to balance the budget. that we want to take $40 billion over 5 years going into the general treasury and spend it in this manner. so i hope the amendment will be defeated.
senator roth. as i k you are aware. because of the 1990 and 1993 reconciliation acts. our important freight railroads are forced to pay a 5.55 cents per gallon fuel tax into the general treasury for deficit reduction. all other modes of transportationhighway. air. wateronly pay 4.3 cents per gallon for this purpose. this is an obvious inequity. while reducing the federal budget deficit is an important goal. if the transportation industry is to be singled out. the burden of achieving a balanced budget should be shared equally among all modes of transportation. i am particularly concerned because s. 949 would transfer the deficit reduction taxes paid by highway users. including truckers which compete with the railroads. into the highway trust fund. placing additional highway deficit reduction fuel taxes into the highway trust fund for highway improvements would exacerbate the already inequitable situation. placing the railroad industry at an even more unfair competitive disadvantage. in essence. the railroads would continue to contribute to deficit reduction. while their competitors would instead contribute to their own infrastructure. the house has similarly proposed putting the aviation fuel taxes into the airport and aviation trust fund for airport infrastructure improvements as part of its tax reconciliation legislation. . this injustice against americas railroads must be remedied at our earliest opportunity. i would ask the distinguished chairman of the finance committee if he would be willing to seek a solution to this railroad deficit reduction fuel tax problem during the conference with the house on tax reconciliation legislation.
madam president. i want to call to the attention of my colleagues. both here on the floor and elsewhere. that there will be a domenicichafee amendment which will provide a simple. fasttrack method to increase highway spending without requiring an entire new istea bill. so lets put to rest the suggestion that all kinds of complications are going to have to be gone through in order to increase highway spending under the bill that is before us. plus the amendment that senator domenici and i will submit. so. therefore. you say. whats the difference. whats the difference between the two bills. domenicichafee provides a fasttrack method to provide additional funding and the socalled byrd bill. byrdbaucuswarergramm bill says there will be increased funding for highway spending. but. let me just tell you the difference. madam president. what the byrd bill says. it says. . what the contract authority will be. and since that is to be apportioned in just the present proportions that exist amongst the states. that applies a chart immediately that will go out. telling each state what it will get for each successive year. there is a hitch there. though. thats a promise. it appears. but the sponsors are stressing that it is  a promise. that the appropriators do  have to provide that amount of money. here is the problem under that approach. i just look here on page 2. "authorization of contract authority: there shall be available from the highway trust fund . . . to carry out this subsection [$5.x billion] for fiscal year 1999." $5.471 billion the next year. on and on it goes until it gets up to $5.781 billion. that is contract authority. and. absent something occurring. that is what the states will get. but the question is. is that what the appropriations are going to be. here is the hitch. every state department of transportation will look. as i say. at these amounts. everybody can figure out what their percentage is  and. since the promise is they are going to get the same percentage. we will figure lets see. what does rhode island get out of this. lets see. in fiscal year 2001 things look pretty good. you just take 5.573 billion. which is on top of the amounts we have already. the $21 billion. you just add that in and figure this is what we are going to get in rhode island. but rhode island is or maine. or montana or west virginiais  necessarily going to get these amounts which appear to be promises because they are  promises because the appropriators have to act. so. it seems to me the proponents of the bill are riding two horses here. one. they are saying to every state. you are going to get 25 percent more. isnt that wonderful. at the same time they are saying. oh. there are commitments. hing is done. we are  breaking the budget. we are just going to leave it to the appropriators. other programs can get what they want. the problem. it seems to me. is once you get these sums out there in contract authority. as is in the byrd bill. that every department of transportation. every gover will figure that is what is coming and there will be tremendous pressure on this body to come through on the promise. seeming promise. they will stress. rightfully. it is  a promise. but who ks what the requirements are going to be for the budget. on the budget in the year 2001. or 2002. or 2003. it may well bewe want to spend more on education. we may want to spend more on health care. it may be we want to cut taxes. but here this is locking us in. i k they will deny it is locking us in. why. contract authority. that is just there. you can change it. but i will guarantee by this time tomorrow every state will have a chart showing what they are going to get for 1999. 2000. 2001. 2002. and 2003. and it will appear to be a promise. that. to me. i believe. is a definite flaw in this measure.
 i believe in july. if the senate changes course and wants to increase spending in the budget resolution for next year. then i would assume an amendment to istea h to carry out that instruction would be adopted. third. senators should be careful about the sequence of these decisions. i believe that many senators have signed on to the socalled byrdgramm amendment without fully understanding all the subtleties. it does authorize massive amounts of additional spending. but it also restructures who has first claim to the funds that are actually appropriated. the byrdgramm amendment increases the share of the pie going to 13 appalachian regional commission states and to a trade corridor program that would benefit a few states. such as texas. their portion of the pie gets bigger. but if the pie itself does  grow because there is room in the budget for larger appropriations. the net effect will be that all the other states will go down. in other words. they are locked in at this increased amount for the appalachian regional commission states and this corridor dealing with the socalled nafta demands. that is locked in under the proposal that they have. and if we do  increase the overall spending. then theirs stays up there and it comes out of tha portion allocated to all the other states. a senator voting for byrdgramm  because he or she wants to increase highway spending authorization could actually cause his or her state to lose highway dollars if subsequent budget decisions do  provide for increased highway appropriations. so i urge everyone to be cautious on this matter. all these considerations have persuaded me that the wisest course is the one that senator domenici. chairman of the budget committee. has urged. lets make the spending decisions in the context of the entire budget. im ready to go with istea ii . i am more committed to getting istea done than any other member of this body. i want it completed. but i am willing to stand down for the time being because i believe the senate will make better public policy if it considers highway spending in the context of the entire budget rather than in the vacuum of these early days of the session. as the highways first group has been urging. i thank the chair.
. the one amendment on behalf of senator mccain deals with the commerce committees budget allocation. the other is on behalf of myself. and it is a truly technical modification of the bill by changing a site reference. it is necessary to comply with the contract authority levels for highway safety programs. both of these amendments have been cleared by both sides.
. i ask unanimous consent that the subcommittee on oceans and fisheries of the committee on commerce. science. and transportation be authorized to meet on thursday. march 12. 1998. at 2:30 p.m. on the fiscal year 1999 coast guard budget.
. we are  increasing the federal deficit. despite some of the statements that have been made in the various news media. for achieving these record funding levels for the highway program. senk ators byrd. gramm. warner and baucus deserve special recognition. as well as congressmen shuster and oberstar fiom the house. all of those members fought long and hard to ensure transportation would receive substantial increases over the original istea legislation. i k that the sums in this bill are large. and the press reports sometimes imply we spent too much. but i think we have to put all this into context. the bill authorizes. indeed. $218 billion. and i must say. that is a lot of money. as we all recognize. it is over 6 years. as i said. this represents a large increase over istea i of 1991. however. and i think this is an important point. only about 30 to 40 percent of the total projected spending for highways and transit by all levels of government is encompassed in this legislation. people come up to me and say. well. isnt that a lot of money to be spending on transportationthat is. highways. bridges and transit--over the 6 years. yes. it is a lot of money. but you have to realize it only represents about 30 to 40 percent of the total projected spending that will be done. where does the other spending come from. it comes from counties. it comes from states. it comes from cities that are doing things on their own. in addition to record authorization levels. this legislation made significant changes to the way we budget for transportation at the federal level. this legislation changed the budgetary treatment of the highway trust fund following the model set forth in a bill first introduced by senator bond. which i was pleased to cosponsor and work on with him. the socalled bondchafee legislation. this bill ensures that all federal gas tax revenues deposited into the highway trust fund* are spent on transportation programs. in effect. this bill reestablishes the linkage between the highway trust fund taxes and transportation spending that was envisioned when the highway trust fund was created. if future revenues to the highway trust fund increase. then under this legislation the highway spending will increase. and. of course. it works the other way. likewise. if the amount going into the highway trust fund from the various taxesprincipally the federal tax on gasolinedecreases. then highway spending. likewise. will decrease. . using congressional budget office projections. $198 billion of the total funding for highway and transit programs will be guaranteed under the new budget mechanism we have. of the $198 billion. $162 billion is for highway and highway safety programs and 336 billion is for transit programs. it is important to e that this historic change which reestablishes the linkage between the trust fund moneys and trust fund spending was all accomplished within the balanced budget framework. we will keep the highway trust fund on budget as part of a unified budget and we will offset the increased spending with spending reductions in other programs. i want to thank senator bond for his tireless work on the socalled bondchafee proposal. which provides the underlying foundation for the budget reforms we implemented ip this legislation. i thank the cosponsors of the bondchafee proposal for their input. i also want to thank senator domenici and his staff for their work throughout the year and for their help in crafting the final budget mechanism that will become law later this aftern. i believe the original istea was a landmark piece of legislation. i have said that many. many times. however. it is true that in the 1991 legislation there were some shortcomings. particularly for the socalled do states. these were the states that put in substantially more into the trust fund than they got back. the original istea established a 90 percent minimum allocation program which was intended to guarantee that each state at least got back 90 percent of what that state put into the trust fund. the problem was that it didnt work. the 90 percent only applied to some of the programs and wasnt structured mathematically to achieve its goals. the old minimum allocation calculation applied to fewer than 80 percent of the programs. leaving some states to receive a percentage share that was equal to 70 to 80 percent of their share of contributions. in other words. a program that was designed to make sure that every state got back at least 90 percent failed. indeed. some states were left with between 70 plus up to 80 cents back on the dollars as opposed to the 90 cents. in this legislation. thanks to the leadership of senator warner and others in the senate. tremendous efforts were made to guarantee that each state would get backat least originally. we sought 92 percent. we werent able to achieve that under the formula. but we did come up so that every state got back 90.5 cents for every dollar that state put into the trust fund. at least. so the do states were put in far better shape than they previously had been under the old former legislation. other members of the environment and public works committee who played a key role in achieving this result were all very. very helpful. in addition. we had senators who were  on the committee who were very anxious about the program. senators
 my understanding is that the intent of this section is to -prevent the dollar amount of the minimum guarantee from growing out of proportion far beyond that which the conferees anticipate. the intent of the congress -is that state will receive less than a 90.5 percent rate of return on their gas tax contributions to the highway trust fund. of the funds distributed to the states which are covered by the minimum guarantee provision.
. i thank the senator from new york and also the senator from colorado. whose interest in transportation is of long standing. let me make one thing clear. however. the amendment of the senator from new yorkand he may correct me if i am mistakenis specifically in the nature of trying to avoid operating subsidies. ad infinitum. into the future. if someone had. 2 or 3 years ago. made the necessary investment in capital improvements and in research and development such as we  have money set aside for. then this amendment would be unnecessary. and mass transit would be selfsustaining. it might even be earning a profit. but unfortunately. one made that investment. in fact this amendment provides for a subsidy that is really  a subsidy. the senator from new york is trying to protect capital funds from becoming operating subsidy funds. i commend the senator from alabama. the chairman of the committee. it is his committee that is progressive. it is his leadership that looks ahead. that is why we come to him at the present time. we all k of many measures only revenue sharingthat are intended to bring some balance to our transportation system. but i think it highly unlikely that they will see the light of day. this is the opportunity. and this is why we stand before the senate with the proposal of the senator from new york and the senator from new jersey. it might be interesting to e that just yesterday. the state of connecticut was awarded $15.1 million for the new haven line. unfortunately. much as anyone likes to receive $15 million. the request of the state of connecticut was for $25 million. i am pleased that we received what we did. but it shows the tight budget under which transportation has to maneuver. and mind you. the new haven service is a total disgrace. in 1968. the gover of the state of new yorki believe the senator from new york will recall thisand the gover of the state of connecticut. then john dempsey. got together in greenwich. conn.. to annce the purchase of 144 cars. here it is 1972. 4 years later. this was the minimum number of cars to enable the service to continue. and still we are a year away from their delivery. five years of delay.  i realize that we might get some form of assistance that would help us in our mass transportation problems.
i might also point out aher very important matter in which the senator failed to participate or vote. since the distinguished senator from south dakota has many times expressed a desire to assist the plight of the poor in our american cities. very important legislation. introduced by the senator from massachusetts . the distinguished senator from maine . the distinguished senator from kentucky . and myself to increase mass transit facilities in american cities. to enable the poor to move within those cities and to get to their jobs and  have to rely on automobiles. certainly there was assistance at all on the part of the senator from south dakota in this matter.
. this is a disgrace. we can continue to spend 75 percent of our transportation budget on highways and 5 percent on mass transit and seriously expect to move. the next step for those who genuinely want to see america as a nation of safety. mobility. and transportation diversity is the joint senatehouse conference. i have every confidence that a solid majority of the senate will reflect our decision on the coopermuskie approach to transportation. i can only say to these conferees. take a chapter out of the highway lobbys book and on coopermuskie stick your feet in concrete. to the american people. i can only say. "make your views kn. tell the conferees on both sides that you want to move in america and your taxes are to be used for the safety. health. and mobility of your family and  as a spigot for the profits of the highway lobby." and. again. to the american people and to my colleagues in both the house and senate who see the urgency of balanced transportation i can only say. "bill is better than a bill that has as its cost for fiscal year 1974. the $7 billion authorized plus 55.000 killed. 2 million disabled. 60.000 displaced from their homes. and 44.5 percent of our air pollution."
i agree with the distinguished senator from alabama. does the senator k i sat out here on the floor of the senate on various requestsi remember there was specifically the amtrak requestand the requests were to cover the operating deficits of amtrak. in one of my proudest moments on the senate floor i managed to get additional funding for amtrak. which additional funding could  be devoted to operating deficits but could only be devoted to research and development and capital improvement so we could get out of this operating deficits. the senate of the united states passed it and a letter came down from the appropriations committee. opposing it. from the secretary of transportation and the president of amtrak at that time. i said. "how in heavens name will we ever get out of this vicious circle if we are going to run the same trains over the same tracks in the same way. we are going to end up with the same deficits except  it is in the public lap rather than in the private sector." it seems to me the only way we can possibly get out of this bind is make some sort of investment on the capital side and research and development and that way we can break the cycle. so it becomes  more of a drain and push out the operating deficits. i could  agree more. i have desire to stand here and ask for these operating deficit subsidies. the system plan will be coming before the senate by the end of july of this year. the final system plan. but the ultimate plan is to create a private forprofit type of operation. . i think i understand government and what is required in the way. or what is required of government in the way of services to ever hope that anything is going to be run for profit. our constituents would be yelling loudest if it was too much for profit. but that is the ob.iective.  to live with the situation that we  have. i wonder if i might just for a minute. because i think it is important. reflect on the origins of this legislation. and to give the senator from alabama a minute to rest his voice. read a few paragraphs from the original act as to what it was that we all intended to do at the outset. in the background of the original rail services act of 1973 the following statements were made: the penn centrals collapse stemmed from the complex interaction of a number of factors. including questionable management policy * * * questionable. i mean i do  hesitate to say on the floor of the senate and even off the floor of the u.s. senate that is a plain old ripoff on the part of too many. as the senator says. jay gould and jim fiskthat was sensational. the modernday types are a little more delicate and a little more subtle. but what they do is as bad if  worse. the misdeeds of individuals. federal regulatory policies and practices. an inadequately developed national transportation policy. the national ecoy. deteriorating business conditions in the theastern part of the united states. the inability of the private sector to respond to these changes. and successful competition from other modes of transportation. in the last several decades. railroads operating in the theast and midwest found themselves in an environment where the national ecoy was changing. reducing the importance of the principal commodities carried by railroads and therefore. the role of the railroads in the transportation system. i unfortunately k full well what has happened here in the sense of so much of our employment because the distinguished senator from alabama kns. because he represents the southern states. they have been the beneficiaries of what has been the misfortune of many of the new england states where much industry has moved geographically into the southern portion of the united states. the percentage of the gross national product represented- by agriculture. mining. and durable goods--heavy users of rail freight transportationdeclined during the 1960s. a trend toward locating factories closer to consumer markets reduced the demand for transportation services. the 196061 and 196870 recession had a pronced impact. in the late 1940s and early 1950s railroads virtually abandoned hauling goods in less than carload lots. and the railroads share of total intercity freight traffic declined from 44 per cent in 1960 to 41 per cent in 1969 and the rail share of freight revenues fell from 28 per cent in 1960 to 22 per cent in you get a very graphic d~monstration of what occurred. insofar as our transportation policies relating to the highway rather than the highway and rail or rail. in the state of connecticut. starting at the new york line. along the coast. the connecticut throughway multilane expressway runs absolutely parallel to the tracks of the old new york. new haven and hartford railroad. well. there is that highway sitting there. built by the taxpayers. totally a government operation. and there sits the railroad which for a long time was in private enterprise hands. obviously. the competitive situation has changed a great deal. i am  returning to reading the report. these factors operated with the greatest negative force in the theast and midwest: 65 per cent of american manufacturing took place in this area in 1950. but in 1969 only 54 per cent of the manufacturing occurred here. the region produced 71 per cent of the coal mined in the nation in 1957 but only 62 per cent of the amount produced in 1970. by 1970 nearly 3 times as much coal was used to generate power at the mine location than was transported by rail. the railroads failed to compete successfully with trucks for the increasingly important manufactured goods traffic. and the interterritoral divisions between railroads operating in various regions remained static. heavy debt burdens and a lack of cash. in some cases combined with questionable payments of dividends. resulted in deferred maintenance and reliance on leasing to obtain the necessary equipment. investments of assets outside the traditional area of railroad operation was also a factor leading to cash drain. although a relatively small factor in terms of cash drain on the railroads when compared to others. such as dividend policies. i can remember when these railroads were shoveling out dividends here near covered by earnings. as cash shortages continued and worsened. more maintenance and capital improvements were deferred. which led to higher operating costs. more slow orders. higher accident rates. less reliability. and a further loss of revenue. here. we get into a very dangerous area. i read the testimony. i think. of the assistant secretary who presented the administrations plan. which is what we have before us today. and it means that the trustees had some plan which would or could. if implemented. provide safety. the problem  is that we are reaching a critical point insofar as safety is concerned. we can compensate for the inadequacy of track and roadbed by cutting down on the speed of the train. but then all of a sudden we are almost at the point where the trains are going backward. so we longer can take care of the safety problems or those inadequacies in such a fashion. i am almost through on this: as cash shortages continued and worsened. more maintenance and capital improvements were deferred. which led to higher operating costs. more slow orders. higher accident rates. less reliability. and a further loss of ievenue. in the case of the penn central. the merger of the pennsylvania and new york central railroads contributed significantly to the cash drain. generally declining ecoic condition was responded to poorly. if at all. by management. the penn central followed a policy of disguising the reality of its situation through "earnings maximization." a technique that overlooks the realities of income or cash flow and attempts "to pretend that earnings [are] larger than they really were by inflating them." in 1968 (after merger) the penn central lost $2.8 million but paid stockholders $55.4 million in dividends. in 1969 the railroad lost $82.8 million but paid dividends of $43.4 million. investments in real estate ventures. such as great southwest corporation. helped penn central to distort earnings by reporting the paper profits generated in these transactions. management did  establish any overriding corporate goals and there was organized effort to achieve goals-"the separate units of the corporation in some cases had mutually exclusive objectives." but the "blame" for the demise rests  only with management. it must be shared by the other american railroads for taking action prior to collapse to counter the deterioration of the railroads in the theast and midwest region. by the congress for for failing to face up to these deficiencies. by the executive branch for failing to spotlight problems or propose remedies. and by the icc. . that was the complete picture as to why we went into the rail services act of 1973. it is a grim picture. all i am saying is that i care. at least. to say that we are capable  to have future generations point at us as  being in the forefront of a solution to this particular problem.  that any of us on this floor in any way condone this grim type of history.
if i understand the senator correctly. he is saying that in those situations where a lease agreement does  specifically segregate the portion of the rent that is attributable to taxes. this section has application. so the proposed new section 605 applies only to those situations where the tax payments made by a tenant to a railroad in reorganization are specifically identified.
last. . i ask senator andre ws. connecticuts tradein represents. by the recent interstate costestimate. 5.8 percent of the total transit and substitute highway tradeins by all states. yet less than 1 percent of the tradein funds. which have been made available to all states. has gone to hartford. hartford has also obligated the lowest percentage of its tradein funds. 6.9 percent. as compared to boston. 78 percent. washington. 87 percent. philadelphia. 71 percent. and portland. oreg.. 19.2 percent. although other states have traded in funds. would he agree that congress support of projects in boston. washington. and philadelphi~a  also should be directed to oregon arid connecticut and that the federal government should make available to connecticut and oregon at least their proportional share of the total interstate transfer grant appropriations for fiscal year 1982.
. i wish to commend the chairman. senator andrews. and ranking miity member. senator chilss. for their formidible efforts in reporting out h.r. 4209. the department of transportation and related agencies appropriations bill. fiscal year 1982. in particular. i would at this time like to express my appreciation for the subcommittees recognition of funding needs for the coast guard. the territorial highway program. amtrak. and conrail commuter rail services tie coast guard has over the years beert given many new responsibilities which have placed a tremendous burden on its resources. and which. coupled with an aging fleet. have pushed the service to the breaking point. the coast guards responsibilities include fishing enforcement. safety at sea. oil spill cleanup. and drug enforcement. to name a few. i frankly do  understand why the atlminlrtration has proposed to cut the coast guards budget in view of its great importance to the nation. therefore. i support strongly the subcommittees increase of $200 million over the administrations snptember request for acquisition. construction anind improvements program. it is also essential to keep the coast guards techogical capability in line with its responsibility. i therefore thank the chairman for including language in the bill that will provide for the continued operations of the research and dovelopmnent facility at avery point in groton. conn. with regard to aher program of inportance to connecticut. conrail corn.mutcr services. the chairman has also been most helpful. under public law 9735. conrails commnuter service obligations must by january 1983 be trans.ferred to either an amtrak subsidiary or individual commuter agencies in connecticut. new york. pennsylvania. maryland. and new jersey. therefore. it is absolutely essential that the full $45 inillion recommended by the subcommittee be made available to the commuter agencies. if they are adequately to plan and implement such a transfer. in my state of connecticut. the new haven commuter rail service represents a major ecoic lifeline between new haven and new york city. carrying nearly 23 million pas~sengers in 1980. i appreciate the efforts of senator damato in particular in arguing the importance of this appropriation. with regard to railroad matters. i would also like to commend the subcommittee for making available to amtrak the full $735 million requested for fiscal year 1982. i believe amtrak has made steady progress in becoming a reliable and efficient transportation system. this is eworthy given the devastating inflation rates and massive capital investment requirements which amtrak has faced. further dismantling of the system would have wasted a significant federal investment in amtrak. i believe our concern  will. in the long run. favorably contribute to development of a balanced national transportation network by providing passenger rail service as an impolrtant energy efficient alternative for the american people. last. let me extend recognition to the chairman on an issue that is  specifically related to connecticut but vitally important to me. as chairman of the energy and natural resources subcommittee with responsibility for the u.s. territories. it is my duty to safeguard the interests of those areas which have r~epresentation here in the senate. the . territorial highways program. established by public law 95599 in 1978. recognized the mutual benefits which wvould accrule to the united states as well af. the offshore areas through road development and maintenance. the intent of this legislation was to provide funding for this program at least through 1982. past appropriations have provided $6 million for these activitie-. which the house also recommended ini its appropriations for fiscal year~ 1982. the administration. however. has proed eliminating the program anld transferring the ressibility for all r~oad construction to the department o" the interior. until authorizing legislation addrc--i ing this issue is considered and approvedi aby this body i firmly urge congress to comnmit funds to this program which is essential for the develonment. of the econic independence of the territories. i thatnk chairman andrews for his recognition of this matter and the incliision of language in the senate report whichl addresses the terr~itorial highwvays prograin. ini conclusion. i again extend my silpport to the chairman and ranking iity member for expeditious senate action and successful deliberations durilig confer~ence on the aforementioned programs. specifically. and the other senate provisions. generally. included in h.r. 4209.0 (by request of mr. posert c. byrd the following statem"ent wvas ordered to be prnted in thf r~ecord:)
that is what i did in my committee. and  we have $16 million for a little road projectin new mexico. and we are going to have this big. acrosstheboard cut again because we are  meeting the demands of the budget committee.
. this legislation would address an inequity which currently exists in our tax code and it would help encourage workers to get out of their cars and use mass transportation. it is a small step. but it is a step in the right direction. it also would be consistent with other important national policy objectives. i urge my colleagues to support the bill. by mr. baucus (for himself.
 nixon has endorsed tax revenue sharing programs which may ease these problems. however. it must be clearly recognized that the cities and states can carry the burden of providing funds for capital outlays needed to provide the residents with good quality transportation. the interstate and other highway programs represent magnificent accomplishments and demonstrate that where the nations will exists. as with the space program. seemingly insurmountable obstacles can be overcome. we must make that same commitment in the area of mass transportation. housing. pollution. and other programs designed to enrich the life of our disadvantaged citizens. local governments can carry the financial burdens involved in one. much less all. of these major programs. let us briefly examine the major provisions of the urban mass transportation assistance act of 1969. section 1 specifies that a federal commitment of at least $10 billion over a 12year period is necessary if efficient. safe. and convenient transportation is to be provided. section 2 of the billauthorizes a new program of 10year loans for the acquisition of real property recently expected to be needed and used for urban mass transit purposes within a reasonable period. section 3 would permit all or any part of the project costs borne by local governments to be paid from other than public sources. presently. local sources provide onethird of net project costs and the federal government provides the remaining twothirds. of the local share. 50 percent must come from public funds unless the public agency lacks the financial ability to provide the local share. this latter requirement is removed by the present bill. section 3 also authorizes the secretary of transportation to incur contractual obligations up to $3.1 billion. appropriations to liquidate the contractual obligation incurred would be authorized for fiscal year 1971 in the amount of $80 million. which limitation would be progressively increased in each of the subsequent fiscal years to $310 million. $710 million. $1.26 billion. until it reached $1.86 billion at the end of fiscal year 1974. thereafter the limit would be the maximum $3.1 billion. section 5 provides the secretary with a discretionary fund equal to 15 percent of the aggregate amount of funds authorized to be obligated under the new program. this fund is to be used judiciously to bring relief to those states whose cities have already or soon will reach a 121/2percent limitation provided in the urban mass transportation act of 1964 on aggregate grants in any one state. critics of the bill have argued that it involves backdoor spending which shields the program from the annual appropriations process and reduces the ability of congress to alter program priorities from year to year. it is also argued that if this means the financing is to be used. there are other federal programs such as housing and education which deserve higher priority. i concur with the observation that there are other programs which merit priorities at least as high as that given to mass transit. this does . however. detract. from the need to support a responsible urban mass transportation program. as the kerner commission observed. our urban problems are multifaceted and can only be remedied by addressing the problem areas in their entirety rather than on a piecemeal basis. other critics argue that the 121/2percent state limitation on capital grant projects should be retained. it should be ed. however. that california. illis. and massachusetts are already approaching or surpassing that limitation. several other states will incur similar problems shortly. thus. the need for the new 15percent limitation is compelling. . finally. it is argued that the bill provides for the obligation of only $3.1 billion. the $10 billion commitment over a 12year period appears in the statement of findings rather than in the financing provisions. with this contention. i have a great deal of sympathy. unfortunately. the senate banking and currency committee was unable to agree upon a realistic timetable for the remaining. $6.9 billion. the committee was further persuaded by secretary of transportation volpe that this office would provide congress with a suitable timetable as the new program developed. i believe this reasoning is persuasive and therefore am  challenging the financing provisions in the present bill. this country is facing a crisis in the field of transportation as well as in the areas of housing. welfare. education. and trade. we must treat these subjects in a responsible and timely manner if we are to ward off the consequences of inaction. i support this legislation because it represents a meaningful approach to a problem which deserves congressional attention. i believe that the urban mass transportation assistance act of 1969 represents one of a series of acts which are designed to alleviate the problems referred to in the kerner commission report. in concluding. however. i must emphasize that the transportation systems built under federal funds provided by this act must be designed to address the problems of the inner city resident as well as the suburbanite. as previously mentioned. new jobs for unskilled and semiskilled workers are often located in the suburbs as well as on the other side of the central city. our transportation authorities must address these facts if urban mass transit is to contribute its full share to the enrichment of our cities and our way of life. i urge that this bill. providing the tools for the task which lies ahead. receive the overwhelming support of the senate.
i say again. under this provision we are  concerned with all cities. we are concerned with those cities that need and are committed to and are willing to make a real financial commitment to additional mass transit services. i am proud to say that cities and towns across my own state of massachusetts have made and continue to make that kind of substantial commitment to mass transit. they are aware of the energy shortage. of the pollution and congestion from just too many automobiles. and the need to serve our lowincome families. our elderly. and our handicapped. who just can be transported from one place to aher. in fact. among massachusetts mayors alone. this is  looked upon as an urban transit bill. it is called the property tax relief act of 1978. and any increased funds received by the massachusetts bay transportation authority would be used to reduce the share paid by property taxes in all the cities and towns in the m3ta area. the taxrate savings would be substantialat least $10 in boston. revere. and somerville. with similar substantial savings in at least six other boston area communities. i would hope that other localities which have tax funds specifically committed to transit would propose similar savings for their localities under this program. as the mayor of oakland. calif.. has written in support of this provision: the communities of the san franciscooakland urbanized area have made a substantial commitment to transit. oakland taxpayers support their respective shares of both the bay area rapid transit district and the alamedacontra costa transit district. the supplemental operating provision will provide funds that will bring the percentage of federal contribution closer to the 50percent level of net operating expenses which is provided in other areas of the country. in fact. it is  just the older. developed transit systems which gain under this provision. the washington. d.c.marylandvirginia metro system. the atlanta marta system. denver. portland. and seattle are all expending large sums of money to develop and expand their transit systems and would all benefit under the supplemental assistance program. it is an unfortunate fact of life that transit systems do run operating deficits. and it is also true that transit systems which are developing. expanding. upgrading. or purchasing new equipment are likely to face more substantial deficits. new systems. in particular. are likely to keep fares low in order to attract transit ridership. we have seen that happen here in the district of columbia. when the metro first opened. it was a question of getting people to get out of their cars and into rapid transit. learning how to use it. rather than clogging up downtown washington by creating traffic jams. which we have egh of with the tourist business in the city. and this happens  only in washington. but in all the major cities of the country. i believe that it would be a cruel deception for the federal government to provide substantial assistance to localities to build new transit systems and to upgrade and expand existing systems and then  provide adequate funding so that these systems may operate. in other words. you let them build the system. and what can you do when the system does  have sufficient operating funds. you just can price this service out of the market. people are paying so much  to ride rapid transit systems that they just can afford increase fares in many cities. if it is  more ecoical for them to ride the transit system than it is for them to come into town with an automobile. and pay a high parking lot fee. then people will  use transit. and most cities today do  even have parking lots to adequately take care of people who come in with their cars. and then they just park illegally. it is getting so  you can even find an illegal place to park any more in many cities of this nation. so that they really have a very serious transit problem on their hands. there is one final point which i would like to address. i k the strong feelings of the administration in opposition to my provision. i k the strong feelings of the distinguished chairman of the budget committee.  on the issues i am talking about. because i think he agrees with me on the issues i have raised. he is only talking from his position as chairman of the budget committee. and i understand that and respect that position. and i feel the same with respect to the senator from oklahoma
. the worst disaster in the history of civil aviation should be sufficient reason for immediate corrective action to prevent a second tragedy. revenue passengers on united states scheduled airlines alone in 1955 were 41.623.000. many millions more traveled on scheduled lines and in military and private aircraft. it is frightening to think of how many of these human beings may have narrowly escaped the horrible deaths 128 of their fellow citizens met over grand canyon last week. a responsible group. the harding committee. pointed out. in december 1955. that four nearcollisions of aircraft have been reported every day. on the average. studies and investigations of the grand canyon tragedy are important. but even more important is prompt corrective action which should be instituted at once. cii747 if cab regulations contribute to this situation. they should be revised without delay. if necessary regulations are  in existence. they should be put into effect immediately. if other procedures are needed. failure to act at once will be tragic. numerous editorials express forcibly the questions in the minds of all and the demands for action  in time to prevent a second catastrophe. one will question the wisdom of developing longrange programs which may well take time. but failure on the part of those who have the power and responsibility to make practical and prompt changes  will  be tolerated or forgiven if a second disaster occurs. two recent editorials from the boston (mass.) globe follow: why. whether the appalling air crash in arizona was caused by "freak" conditions. as one expert suggests. or was attributable to some extremely risky flight planning. only a full inquiry by the civil aeronautics board will disclose. meantime a horrified public will insist that answers be given to several pertinent questions. why were these two heavily loaded airliners dispatched on an identical flight course only 3 minutes apart. why were  divergent. or at least parallel courses. 30 or 40 miles apart. assigned them. why were both given a check point for reporting position above the disaster region which placed them. according to reports. but 1.100 feet apart. in cloudy or stormy flying weather such as they encountered. wasnt this far too hazardous. our civil airlines have had excellent records for safety. this catastrophe reveals urgent need for newer and more rigorous precautions.
 i should say . the reason is that the district of columbia does  represent an average of the highway requirements of the nation. it is clear that in most states the bulk of the gasoline tax is collected in the metropolitan areas. but out of it must be paid also the expense of the primary and secondary rural road systemsl whereas here in the district. although. of course. all of the tax is collected in a metropolitan area. because the whole district is metropolitan in character. it does  have to bear the burden of any intercity or rural primary and secondary systems. therefore. inasmuch as all of the districts gasoline tax goes into the districts highway fund. i believe it is quite appropriate that the district gasoline tax be at a rate that is a little lower than. the rate in those states that also pay for a rural system of roads out of such tax.
the $1.700.000 does  include the increase of 1 cent. if there is an increase of 1 cent. there will be available from the district $1.500.000 more annually. making a total of about. $3.200.000 for this program. the program is a $35.000.000 program. extending over 10 years. an annual revenue of $3.200.000 would make $32.000.000 during the 10 years. the other $3.000.000 or so which the program calls for will come from the mal operation of the federal highway aid or its contribution on access roads. such as any state would get.
i should say . the survey which has been carefully made over a period of years indicates that the revenue derived from the 2cent gasoline tax has enabled the authorities in the district of columbia to keep the roads in repair. and to take slow forward steps toward the needs of the highway department. but that we are far behind. about 5 to 7 years behind. on what have been called the major operations needed by the district. insofar as its highway engineering is concerned.
therefore. the man drawing $2.100. which. i understand from the budget office of the post office department. is the average salary which may be used for comparison purposes in dealing with the post office department. would receive a $300 bonus plus his overtime. this overtime is computed in the way they do it there. on a straight time basis. and i think their daily rate is one threehundredandsixth of his annual pay. computed on that basis. he will receive about $356 for overtime. the $300 bonus and the $356 for overtime gives him a total increase of $656. as compared with a total increase of $453 under the ordinary civilservice bill. it is about $200 more. it is an increase of about 30 percent. as compared with 21.6 percent. on its face this would appear to discriminate in favor of the post office department as against the rest. i have been given to understand. however. that it is the opinion of the committee on post offices and post roads that this does  amount to discrimination. and i have understood they have arrived at that conclusion because they feel there is a preexisting discrimination against the post office department before any adjustment is made. i should like to have the senator explain if that is the fact. becaute otherwise it might result in discrimination. and if the bill for the postoffice employees were passed and were discriminatory in their favor. we would be faced next week with that argument when we bring out our civilservice bill. i want to make sure the bills are  discriminatory when compared with each other.
am i correct in understanding that if this amendment should be agreed to in the form in which it came from the committee. it would be retroactive in its effect on some of the railroad reorganizations. when the roads were in great financial difficulty and accomplished reorganization on the basis of existing laws. and paid their taxes on that basis. if we should adopt this provision it would have a retroactive effect. would it . and would impose greatly increased taxes over and above those in effect when they made their reorganizations. relying on existing law when they did so.
. as ranking member of the subcommittee responsible for this legislation. i would like to associate myself with the remarks made by our chairman. senator bayh. the bill contains $6.27 billion in budget authority and outlays of $15.12 billion. it is. therefore. approximately $425 million below the first concurrent resolution in budget authority and $375 million below in outlays. the bill as it currently stands is also $6 million below the budget request. i would just like to take a moment to touch on some of the provisions i believe are important. in the area of commuter and mass transit services the bill further strengthens the federal commitment to mass transit by providing $45 million for commuter service to communities in the theast and midwest. this sum is $15 million above the administrations budget request. these funds are badly needed for reation and repair of commuter rail equipment. many of the commuter cars are more than 30 years old and require extensive reation and repair if they are to provide acceptable service. the appropriations bill provides an additional $100 million for upgrading existing subway systems and for the purchase of transit buses. the funds earmarked for subway systems are needed to halt the further deterioration of services which carry the urban commuter to and from his office and his home. thirty percent of these funds will go to subway systems such as those in new york. chicago. and philadelphia. about $70 million will go for the purchase of new buses to assist communities that do  have subway systems. two smaller transit items included in the bill are the addition of $1 million over the house bill for the development of energy conservation systems for buses and $600.000 for the demonstration of an accelerated moving walkway. this walkway will be the first operational accelerated walkway in the world. the new energy systems for buses employ flywheel devices to capture the energy generated during braking. such systems have been successfully demonstrated on subways and have great promise for saving energy in mass transit. in aher area. the appropriations bill provides $400 million in continuing improvements for the theast rail corridor linking washington and boston. when completed. the corridor will carry passengers at speeds of up to 120 moh. the senate version of the appropriations bill also restores $11.5 million in operating expenses for amtrak service. bringing to $500 million the amount allocated to amtrak. operations in the 1978 budget. the bill includes $130 million for capital improvement for amtrak. these funds are $25 million above the budget request and will permit amtrak to purchase new passenger cars and increase its capability of performing maintenance on the existing fleet. some of the safety related items included in the bill include: a $200 million state and community highway safety grants program. an increase of $50 million over the house. the program will provide funds to states for such high priority items as the 55 mph speed limit enforcement. emergency medical services and alcohol safety. these programs have proven effective at increasing traffic safety at both state and local levels. the addition of $1.230.000 for 177 new positions in air traffic control work. these posts are necessary to accommodate increases in air traffic in a safe and efficient manner. the committee also directed the federal aviation administration to prepare a plan of the action to reduce the incidence of compliance with standard procedures by air traffic controllers and pilots. information presented to the committee indicates that 90 percent of the aviation accidents can be attributed to human error. additionally. the national transportation safety board has found that 77 percent of the voice tapes show some degree of compliance with established flight procedures. the report also instructs the coast guard to strengthen its leadership role in providing assistance for state boating safety programs. during hearings. information available to the subcommittee indicated that the coast guard fails to exercise its leadership role and fails to evaluate the effectiveness of its programs in this area. the transportation subcommittee has also pointed out that the department has failed to assign a leadership role for transit safety to any one agency. the committee directed the office of the secretary to expedite a study on transit safety and report back to the committee by in the area of environmental protection. the committee strengthened the coast guards inspection program of foreign oil tankers entering u.s. ports. the coast guard fulfills a vital function in protecting all coastal states from oil spills. recent evidence shows that a majority of these tankers entering u.s. ports have one or more defects that might contribute to oil spills. therefore the bill includes 150 positions for inspectors. this is 100 more than requested in the budget. the transportation subcommittee also believes that the office of the secretary of transportation should provide full funding for its se abatement. environmental protection. and energy conservation programs. the committee has increased by $6.275 million the amount recommended by the house for airport planning these funds will assist in development of se abatement programs and longrange site and facilities planning. several additional items deserve e. the committee has increased the funding for the miity business resource center-$5 million over that recommended in the house version. this brings the center up to the $10 million level requested in the budget. the committee recognizes that one of the major impediments to the involvement of miity firms in the rail reconstruction effort is their inability to secure venture capital. the $5 million provided in our bill. through the use of leverage. generates an additional $25 million in venture capital for miityowned businesses. one of the more controversial issues encountered during the markup of the transportation bill was the interstate transfer provision. the federalaid highway act of 1976 provided that projects substituted for interstate roadway segments would be treated as budget authority and require appropriations action. this year. we received requests for some five programs. the house. in an effort to greatly increase the funds available for one of these programs and add two additional budget programs. deleted the funding of three programs requested by the administration. e of the programs added  the one substantially increased had. at the time of our subcommittee markup. progressed to the point of receiving approval for the interstate transfer or the substitute projects. i do  dispute the concept that these funds. in effect. "belong" to the localities even though they do come from the general treasury. however. in exercising our oversight responsibilities we must have assurance that the money so appropriated will be spent to implement those programs that will best serve the communities involved. therefore. this committee was reluctant to recommend funding for these programs that had  undergone the scrutiny from both the executive and legislative branches. therefore. i am pleased that the administration has agreed to send up a revised budget request to resolve this difficult issue. it has been estimated that approximately $6 billion in interstate transfers are possible given the present configuration of our interstate system. certainly we intend to continue to exercise considerable care in appropriating funds for these programs. the committee report contains language requiring the federal rail administration to study the consequences of using concrete versus wooden ties on the theast corridor improvement project. preliminary evidence indicates that while concrete ties may be more expensive on a pertie basis. the overall installation costs and life cycle costs are less expensive than their wooden counterparts. the major issues. however. relate  so much to cost as they do to ride quality. maintenance. and future use of the corridor. in the event that corridor service is upgraded beyond 120 mph it will be necessary to install concrete ties in order to assure that the track gage meets the necessary tolerances. all of the ultrahigh speed rail systems currently use concrete ties and we certainly do  intend that the report language be interpreted to restrict the use of such ties on the theast corridor. since the committee has consistently stated its desire to have the theast corridor serve as a model rail system for the nation. it would  be inconsistent to restrict the designers from using the best performing materials. whatever they are. the committee report also contains language taking exception to the houses attempt to restrict rail services assistance for the reconstruction and upgrading of branch lines to fra class i standards. the committee believes that in certain instances. upgrading beyond class i standards is desirable. experience has shown that branch line rehabilitation can significantly improve both service and revenue. therefore. the committee directed fra to fund such rehabilitation projects at whatever level is reqgiired if significant increases in transportation services would result or the need for federal subsidy would ultimately be decreased. the committee also took exception to the house report language imposing a formula for the determination of route discontinuances on the amtrak system. the committee believes that the revenue and cost formula suggested by the house does  give sufficient consideration to the social and environmental implications of passenger train service. the committee feels that the criteria and procedures for making route and service decisions approved by congress should be the basic vehicle for the determination of route and service decisions. the committee agrees that amtrak should carefully reconsider its route structure and apply the criteria in order to optimize the system. in closing. i would like to compliment the senior senator from indiana for his efforts in ably seeing this legislation through to this point and to urge my colleagues to support this bill. i have further statement to make
. i take~this opportunity to briefly comment on a senate amendment to h.r. 9375. i refer to the additional $18 million provided for the national railroad passenger corporation. or amtrak. on september 20 of this year amtrak submitted a request for $56.5 million to the congress. on september 23. the dot appropriations subcommittee held hearings on the amtrak request. on september 28 we received a letter from secretary adams that he would  support this additional funding request. in its deliberation on the supplemental appropriations bill. the house saw fit  to include any funds for amtrak. of the $56.5 million request. the committee has recommended $18 million. these funds would be used to restore train frequency reductions which are presently scheduled to become effective on october 30. 1977. ember 6. 1977. and any subsequent frequency reductions. the amount does  cover the $10.6 million request for unanticipated inflation. the committee will take testimony at a later date on the impact of inflation after amtrak has accumulated some operating cost data in fiscal year 1978. also denied was the request for $20 million to forestall the cancellation of services on one or more longdistance routes. in effect. the $18 million will buy us some time to review the procedures used by amtrak in making the annced service reductions. the procedures employed to date result in frequency reductions affecting a large number of trainssomewhere in the neighborhood of 30in order to realize a relatively smallcost savings. in the railroad business. each route carries with it relatively high fixed or overhead costs such as maintenance of way and equipment. in order to realize any significant cost savings. it would be necessary to reduce the fixed costs. and this could best be accomplished through route restructuring. although the conferees in the fiscal year 1978 dot appropriations bill recommended this approach. amtrak has decided otherwise. what it has done is. in effect. to make some financially marginal trains worse by reducing their frequency. at the same time. its analysis has iged some of the national policy factors that were instrumental in creating amtrak in 1971. for instance. the current analysis employed puts little emphasis on such critical transportation matters as the total passengers served. energy considerations. and the availability of other transportation modes. the procedures focus too heavily on the total dollar cost of each route rather than on these service considerations. if these factors were adequately taken into account. i am sure that the service reductions slated for new jersey would  have been proposed. the trains on the new york to philadelphia run. as an example. carry 8.400 people per day at a cost of $10.5 million a year. the cuts annced by amtrak involve the deletion of eight of these trains which would dislocate approximately 2.600 riders per day and save an estimated $1.9 million. i would like to point out to my colleagues that the new york to philadelphia route carries more passengers than any of the other 37 amtrak routes nationwide. in fact. it carries 20 times more passengers than the chicago to florida route and results in a smaller total deficit. it also carries 19 times the number of riders more than the chicago to los angeles route. once again at a smaller cost. the trains slated for elimination on the new york to philadelphia route carry six times the daily passengers carried by either the previously mentioned longdistance routes at approximately onesixth the cost. carrying the analysis one step further. if you look at amtraks 38 routes in terms of their deficit per passenger revenue mile. you find that the new york to philadelphia segment ranks 17th out of 38. this means that 21 other routes result in a higher per passenger federal subsidy for each mile traveled than the new york to philadelphia route. what i am driving at is that the criteria used by amtrak for determining which trains to eliminate do  reflect the considerations originally envisioned in the creation and continuation of a national railroad passenger service. i am a strong believer in the need for a national railroad passenger service. i believe that it is an important element of our transportation network and represents a national resource that must be preserved. i would like to see train service in this country improved and expanded. such improvement. however. must be based on a realistic appraisal of what we  have and where we eventually want to go. it is for this reason that i have objected to the procedures employed by amtrak in its attempt to cut costs and it is for this reason that i also strongly support the initiation of a study to optimize amtraks route structure. i do  believe that the national railroad passenger system of this country should be structured on the basis of our yearly appropriations activities. it should. instead. reflect the transportation needs of the nation. the various regions and the states in addition to associated national policy considerations such as energy. the environment. and mobility.
madam president. the international security assistance act of 1978. which we are taking up in the senate today. undoubtedly will be a vehicle for debating broad foreign policy issues as well as a means for authorizing funds for a very important part of our foreign aid program. the bill would authorize appropriations totaling $2.8 billion through seven international security assistance programs. this is a reduction of $306.7 million from the authorization for the current fiscal year. fiscal year senator sparkman. the distinguished chairman of the committee on foreign relations. already has presented a fine description of the bill itself. thus i will  take the time of my colleagues by attempting to duplicate his presentation. certain aspects of the bill and the forthcoming debate. however. deserve some emphasis. because they relate to two regional trouble spotsthe middle east and southein africa. thus. i would like to take the liberty. in these opening remarks. to call attention to them. the largest portions of assistance under the pending bill are allocated for the middle east. scene of one of the worlds most prolonged and difficult regional disputes. the security supporting assistance of this bill would authorize 140.8 ........ 31.2 ........ 170.0 ........ 225.0 ....... 15.1 ........ 582.1 13 esf/ fms peacemap imet financing keeping africa: sudan -----------------.5 7.5............... kenya ................. .4 10.0 .................. zaire .................. 2.0 17.5 .................. z am bia ....... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20.0 . .. .. .... southern africa .................................. 90.0 ........ other ................. 1.0 3.4 ___9 ................ regional total .............. 3.9 38.4 110.0 ........ american republics: colombia ............ other ....... .4 regional total.... .4 .5 19.0 ................... 7.5 26.3 .................. 8.0 45.3............... percent of worldwide other total total 8.0 ........ 10.4 ........ 19.5 ........ 20. 0 ....... 90.0 ........ 4.4 ........ 152. 3 19.5 ........ 34. 2 ....... 53. 7 other programs: peacekeeping (other) --------------------------------- 25.4 ---------- 25. 4 ---------military advisory groups.... 45.5 ------------------------------------------------- 2 worldwide total.. 180.5 $750 million for egypt. which also is to receive about $200 million in additional food assistance through the public law 480 program. the pending bill also would authorize security supporting assistance of $785 million for israel. $93 million for jordan. and $90 million for syria. under the foreign military sales program. israel would receive $1 billion worth of credits and jordan $85 million. the needs and pgroblems in these countries are great. and in an effort to help solve them. the senate foreign relations committee bill includes approaches which supplement the more standard aid channels. section 532(b) (4) requests the president to provide at least $465 million of the funds authorized for egypt for the development and encouragement of private enterprise. this is a followup to the amendment last year by the late senator humphrey. the intent of the humphrey amendment and this years amendment is to help channel some of the assistance for egypt into medium size and smaller scale projects which could be put into operation more quickly than the more traditional larger projects which often are slowed down by delays in planning and dealing with bureaucracy. the committee report states: it is the intent of the committee that aid shall consult closely with the overseas 32.5 2.085.2 2.004.4 42.5 4.345.1 100 private investment corporation in developing and implementing these programs. and that the funds shall be used to encourage the arab members of opec to join as active partners in eygptian private enterprise development. funds authorized under this subsection may be used for a variety of activities. including lending to the egyptian private sector. providing necessary services. surveys. and programs to encourage and support private sector development. and contracting for such personnel as are required to carry out these activities. aher initiative. which i cosponsored. is section 532(b) (5). as the committee report es: it earmarks $25 million of the funds authorized for the middle east to be used to fund regional programs which stress development or scientific and technical cooperation between israel and neighboring arab countries. or programs which could be used for arabisraeli cooperation once malization of relations occurs. this would permit the initiation of regional cooperative programs which would include both israeli and arab participation. the basic purpose of this proposed regional development fund is to provide additional incentives to the peace process by encouraging cooperation in the ecoic. technical. scientific. agricultural. and other fields between the governments and peoples of the middle east. the cooperation in developing. planning. and implementing projects could be useful in helping breakdown the distrust and other barriers which have inhibited more peaceful relations. the phrase "malization of relations" is used. because we do  want to delay such cooperation until formal peace agreements are signed. the term almost defines itselfit would be useful to begin work on projects as the governments bring themselves to deal with each other. even if it is on the technical and working level rather than on a fullscale diplomatic basis. the projects are intended to have the participation of both israelis and citizens of arab countries. for example. the projects could be such endeavors as joint research efforts in which the laboratories utilized are in israel or in the arab countries--or bothand the nationals from the other side participate. or they could be located on the west bank and gaza strip. with the approval and cooperation of local residents. the israel government and whatever arab country wishes to take part. but the important thing is that the authorities and citizens of israel and the arab countries work together. the program is  intended to be a supplemental to the bilateral american aid for the countries and peoples of the region. rather it is to encourage their cooperation and working together. it may be that there are  egh projects ready to launch before the end of the fiscal year. but i think it would be useful and important to make the funds available to demonstrate. if even in a relatively modest way. some of the benefits which might come from peace and mal relations in the region. rhodesia the matter of rhodesia. which is involved in this legislation in a very important way. will come up perhaps today. when we deal with this matter. we will be dealing also with the general problem of southern africa. senator helms has annced he plans to introduce his amendment to lift sanctions against the rhodesian government. under his proposal. the sanctions would be lifted upon enactment of s. 3075. until january 1. 1979. this approach. . is premature. although there is a transition government in place. there are questions as to how firmly it is on the road to majority rule. in addition. there is a danger that lifting the sanctions  will reinforce the perceptionvalid or that the united states is backing ian smith and this makes it more diffi:ult for the frontline states to resist pressures to go along with the cuban option of increased military activity which we are seeking to curtail. a better alternative is the amendment i am proposing along with senators javits and moynhan. the basic condition to the lifting of sanctions would be the formation of a new government following free elections in which persons of all population groups are allowed to participate. this could take place even before the end of this year if the elections are moved up from the current proposed timetable under which the new government is to take office by december 31 of this year. the key purpose of our amendment is to underscore our backing for the concept of a peaceful transition to majority rule through free elections open to all. and the recognition and protection of miity rights. thus the amendment is intended to provide encouragement for aher round of negotiations. at a proposed allparties conference to involve the transitional government and representatives of the socalled patriotic front. it would require the rhodesian government to make a good faith commitment to take part in and negotiate in such a conference. if the conference does  take place. through fault of the rhodesian government. sanctions still would be lifted if free elections are held. open to all population groups obscured by impartial internationally recognized observers. our amendment is intended to encourage all sides to resolve their differences and work them out through negotiations and elections through the political process rather than by force. we believe the amendment provides incentives for this approach and is the responsible way to handle this most difficult area.
. i shall certainly  oppose the report. on the contrary. i am very much in favor of it. i greatly appreciate the fact that the problem of grave interest to commuters around metropolitan areas has been cared for in the report. i believe i speak for tens of thousands of commuters in my part of the country when i express appreciation to the conferees. the chairman of the committee . the senator from florida . the junior senator from ohio . and. the senator from texas . as well as to our colleagues on this side of the aisle. the senator from connecticut imr. purtell]. the senator from kansas . and the senator from ohio . who has just spoken. for the very constructive manner in which they reached a solution of this problem. i believe that the commuter branches need help. especially from states and municipalities. it is my intention. once the conference report is approvedwhich i hope will be shortlyto introduce proposed legislation which would insure to the commuter carrying roads any tax abatement which they obtain locally. by providing that the federal government shall  take the benefit of it in its own taxes. that is a recommendation contained in the very distinguished report of the subcommittee of the senator from florida.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to grant to railroads a form of tax relief which will enable them to take full advantage of any tax abatements granted to them by cities. counties. and states. in order to help them continue commuter service. i introduce the bill on behalf of the senator from massachusetts . my colleague. the junior senator from new york . and myself. this proposed legislation is specifically cited by the new york state public service commission. in its report issued january 28. as a bill which should be enacted if congress is to meet its responsibility toward solving the current national crisis in railroad passenger service. the commissions report follows gover rockefellers call for action to help maintain railroad commuter service. i introduced and worked for passage of a similar bill during the last session in connection with the fight to ameliorate those provisions of the transportation act of 1958 which would make it too easy for railroads to receive interstate commerce commission approval of plans to discontinue commuter services. this proposed legislation would amend the internal revenue code of 1954 to assure that tax relief granted by states and municipalities to railroads operating commuter services at a loss would directly benefit the railroads and  be absorbed by increased federal taxes. the new york public service commission has recommended this measure. it would provide federal leadership without preempting state functions. and federal assistance without interfering in railroad management. which would in turn encourage states and localities to offer desperately needed help at their level. specifically. adoption of this measure would prove a powerful stimulus to local governments to grant tax exemptions and abatement to railroads which are operating necessary but unprofitable passenger commuter services. the present federal tax laws discourage such help. using the year 1957 as an example. had new york and its municipalities forgiven the approximately $45 million in taxes they collected from the railroads. the federal government could have stepped in to collect as much as $23 million of this amount. even though it was intended to help railroads continue operating commuter service. had my proposal been law at that time. the federal government could  have collected this amount. and millions of dollars could have been spent by railroads for continuance and improvement of such vital passenger service. today. the long island railroad reaps the benefits of a comparable tax situation. because millions in tax forgiveness granted by the state and city are  being siphoned off by federal corporation taxes. due to tax loss carryovers from previous years. this railroad is the only line in the east which does  operate commuter service at a net loss. however. in 1962 the present federal loss benefit will probably be exhausted. and the federal government will start to collect the majority of the tax benefits which have been granted by new york state and city. this prospect is expected to seriously jeopardize plans for reducing fares. installing equipment. and providing safer. more efficient service. the new york public service commission has also recommended that congress pass legislation to eliminate the present 10 percent federal tax on passenger fares. such a bill has already been introduced in this session by the senator from florida . his measure will show that the federal government as well is willing to give up tax revenues in the interest of preserving passenger service. and thus should stimulate additional state action in this field. at the present time. railroad commuter service operates at a net loss almost everywhere in the nation. with the focal point of the problem the new york metropolitan area. daily 208.000 railroad commuters come into new york city from the outlying districts. including suburbs in new jersey and connecticut. as compared to the 100.000 commuters who come by car. if all commuter service by rail were to be discontinued tomorrow. it is estimated that the entire area from 60th street in midtown manhattan southward to the tip of the island would have to be converted into a parking lot to accommodate the cars of the commuters. nationally. there are 500.000 railroad commuters. the railroads estimate that the losses they incurred which were solely attributable to the cost of providing this passenger service amounted to $165 million in 1958. that amount is more than double the estimated loss in 1954 of $76 million.
 of france at the summit conference. which is expected to take place in the middle of may. so the first area is the increasing of aid to the less developed areas through partnerships with other industrialized nations. area  2 is to enlist the private ecoic system of the united states far more actively than it has been enlisted in the ecoic struggle. this means an expansion of exports. it means also an expansion of investment abroad through the passage of the necessary legislation for that purpose. this is generally kn as the boggs bill. which is pending in the house of representatives. my own bill. which is generally to the same effect. is pending in the senate. it means also an expanding of our exports through credit guarantees. a new program for that purpose has just been initiated by the exportimport bank. it means expanding the number of tourists from abroad in the united states. a million and a half americans travel abroad annually. but only 600.000 or 700.000 foreigners travel in the united states each year. this means an imbalance of from $2 billion to $2.500 million. so far as we are concerned. comparing what american tourists spend abroad and what the american tourist industry takes in. point  3 is the gearing up of our means of production to compete successfully in world markets with the means of production in other countries. we can compete in everything. but it has always been the genius of the united states to find egh areas in which to compete so as to sustain our emous ecoic production machine. thus we need to have a much greater rate of productivity than we  have. and we need to come abreast of the increases in productivity which the communist bloc. particularly the soviet union. is showing. and which are much greater than ours. in that regard. we shall see much more automation in this country than we have before. but we must be very wise and careful to make certain that the automation. which must come. will  be at the expense of the workingman. we must make certain that he is  thrown out on the scrap heap simply because of the advent of new machines and new techniques. we should make certain that the government and the industry of the nation will begin to finance a humane transition to new jobs. new places of employment. and new opportunities. with the result. as shown by our history. that although automation may displace some persons. it will increase the aggregate of production. the aggregate of prosperity. and the aggregate of employment. these are. roughly speaking. the areas in which i believe our country must do the emous amount of work which confronts us in the 1960s. in the decisive ecoic struggle with the communist bloc.
. the amendment we proposed to submit would have confined the additional 3 months relief to passengers on railroads which had reported losses. for federal income tax purposes. in either of the last 2 years and this would have resulted in a diminution by approximately $6 to $8 million of the revenue expected from this source. as contrasted with an estimated diminution of $25 million in such revenue if this amendment were adopted and enacted into law. the reason why the amendment was  submitted in that form is that objections would have been made. which are impossible to argue on the floor on this short ice. to the effect that it violated the constitutional provision requiring uniform application of taxes in a geographical sense. rather than get into that question. if the senate should look favorably upon the amendment. the confereeswho must consider this question. matter which amendment we adopt. since it is in conflict with the provision in the housepassed bill--can work it out on as narrow a basis as necessary both to serve our purposes and to minimize the amount of revenue loss. within the provision of the constitution. that can better be done by the conferees than by our trying to argue the matter on the floor in the 5 or 10 minutes which we have to prepare the argument. we have a very serious situation. and the purpose of our movei do  say the purpose of amendment. because i have explained why it is broader than the amendment originally contemplatedis to deal with the problems of the long island. erie & lackawanna. boston & maine. new york central. pennsylvania. new haven. and reading railroads and some smaller railroads where every penny counts. in the most material and pressing way. the opportunity for the roads to get the amounts represented by the tax which the individual passenger  pays. is a matter of life and death for every one of these railroads. the long island rail road serves a commuting population from long island to new york city of over 2 million people. we are  talking only about the wellbeing of the city of new york. the people of new york pay almost 20 percent of the federal taxes. so our wellbeing has a great deal to do with the wellbeing of the nation. our ecoic vitality and the way in which we move people to and from work are critical to the nation. even leaving aside matters of defense and mobilization and transportation. the long island rail road has become a state redevelopment corporation organized for the special purpose of conducting that system. which was in a terrible state of disrepair and was just a shambles when it went into bankruptcy a few years ago. this road is faced with the necessity of increasing fares. which are already very high. if it does  get some kind of relief we are discussing today. the new haven is in receivership . the senator from connecticut [mr. bushl will perhaps address himself to aher amendment. if the pending amendment is  adopted. of an even more specific character. so the situation is of the utmost gravity and concern. and is a key and an integral part of the whole new england area. the commuter business does  concern merely the ecoic wellbeing of new york. but its impact has such an effect on the national tax and national ecoic situations as well to warrant our consideration of the matter here.
two other points i wish to make. in addition to the serious situation in which the railroads find themselves. they face a material increase in their operating costs due to the fact that the presidential emergency commission has recommended a 10.2 cents per hour increase for operating employees. we are advised by the long island rail road that this inevitably leads to the same increase for the operating employees. this. in the case of the long island itself. will amount to a total payroll increase of about $1.670.000 a year. when that is compared with what will happen on this 10percent fare tax. if on the long island there is an assignment of the relationship between the two. it will be seen that if the tax is taken off. there will be a greater opportunity for the railroad to get the approximately $1.800.000 additional revenues. the amount which. in addition to their other troubles. they have to pay in additional wage rates. i am  arguing against the increase in wages. people should be paid properly for what they do. but i am arguing the question of adequate revenues and taxes. next. what are we doing in new york in the way of selfhelp and mutual cooperation. we in new york are very proud of what we have done. gover rockefeller initiated a program which resulted in an interstate staff committee to deal with the particular problems of the new haven. this was done on october 24. 1960. and resulted in very considerable tax and other help to the new haven. in new york we have given help to the long island and to the new york central in terms of state assistance to municipalities. so that there could be tax rebates and the municipalities could take over maintenance of stations and assist in many other ways. this has been such an outstanding effort on the part of our state to help ourselves in this field that i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record excerpts from the latest annual report of the office of transportation of new york state. as a part of my discussion of this amendment.
on the other hand. . the great preponderance of returns received in the new york area. the involvement of the bar of new york and vicinity with the problems of the regional office. the great amount of travel which would be required from the regional office back to the place from which it would be moved. if it should be moved out of new york. and the fact that real savings would be effected in respect of the number of employees were conconcerned. were clear factors to be considered. employees would be dislocated. new personnel would have to be trained. saving in any material sense. in an end way. would result. all those arguments were developed because of the great storm which had been aroused among the bar of new york. the accountants of new york. many taxpayers in new york. and especially in view of the impressive figures showing the number of returns and the amounts involved in the way of taxation. they were in the magnitude of two and three times what was involved in the boston area. all those factors indicated the complete lack of wisdom in the proposed move once the questions had been debated and tested in the public forum. so i shall  offer the amendment. rather i prefer to rely. since the evidence is so clear. upon the very statesmanlike inquiry which was undertaken by the committee on finance. and which. i deeply believe. conclusively demonstrated the fact that the regional office should stay exactly where it is. when the arguments for and the arguments against were considered. it was very clear that the reasons for the move fell. in the most simple approachthat is. in the approach of the number of taxpayers concerned and the number of their representatives concernedthe overwhelming volume of taxation which is involvedapproximately $18 billion in the new york area as compared to $5 billion in the boston areait is very clear in the record that the situation should remain exactly as it is.
ial commission on automation. techogy. and ecoic progress. i have long urged that there be a national effort to deal with the effects of rapid techogical change on our ecoy. first by proposing s. 1302 on april 10. 1963. which would have created a national productivity council. then through senate joint resolution 105. which i worked out jointly with senator morse and the white house during the railroad strike crisis and introduced with the cosponsorship of senators clark.
there were two items which we requested. which we thought were important egh for new york. one was for widening the kill van kull entrance to new york harbor. it was estimated that $2.5 million would be required for that purpose. that was one of the items the senator speaks of which was  budgeted because it had  been authorized when the budget was submitted. the bill contains $300.000 for it. that is. of course. relatively a small figure compared with the request. i would deeply appreciate some statement for the record from the senator from louisianaif he can find the place with his assistantas to the reason for that. the second question which i should like to address most respectfully to the senator is whether we could have the situation made clear on the problem of new yorks anchorage. which is a big problem in new york. the sum of $500.000 was requested for that. hing was provided. the senator ks. as well as i do. the fruitlessness of trying to amend the bill in that regard. but. inasmuch as the senator just stated his interest in looking after the problems of the various. states in an objective way. i point out to him that on the new york anchorage problem. hing really has been done for the past 30 years. even today. withstanding theproblems we have with competition from other ports. new york is by far the largest port in the united states. therefore. i would deeply appreciate it if the senator could give us some information for new york on those two items.
i thank the senator. i appreciate also what was done about appropriations in the civil rights field. for the office of education and the equal employment opportunity commission. it only shows my colleagues fidelity to duty in the financial side of our work. without regard to his own views on the substantive matter. and that congress having spoken. the committee will provide what is needed to do the work required. i ask unanimous consent that a table showing the staff of usts and its budget from 1962 to date and a table comparing the travel provision expenditures of the united states with 19 other countries may be pointed at this point in the record.
 that is  the case. under training programs undertaken by the employer in cooperation with manpower training programs. it is  for the purpose of increasing his own productivity. or carrying on his own business. but programs which employers would undertake who have a unique capacity such as machine tool companies. automobile companies. and so forth. which would be extra to and outside of the mal operations of their businesses which produce revenue for them. this is something which they would do in order to give themselves and others a pool of new workers.
it is over $700 billion. in other words. i. am all for the fight against inflation which. incidentally. can stand a great deal of improvement in the way it is being fought with the socalled guidelines. which are being kicked around. the country is being told. in spite of the fact that it is in a war. that everything is lush and glorious and all we have to do is make money to spend it. the fact is. "x" may need a cut and "y" may . everything should stand on its own feet. if we will have to cut. the fact is. we should have increased taxes in january of this year. i said that i would be for it and i would vote for it. the senator from illis said that he would. too. therefore. we can be criticized for the fact that we want to spend what it takes in order to do the things which this country needs done. one is going to be more distressed than people like my dear colleague. the senator from ohio . if we have a continuance of the riot situations which this country has endured recently. we in the cities are trying to do something about it. mass transportation is one of the key ways in which we can try to do something. so far as the people of new york city are concerned. they have taken the increase to 20 cents in the fare in the package of additional taxes which new york state has just put on them to the amount of $300 million to $400 million. new york is enduring a great deal in terms of municipal sacrifice. but the tax sources are  there. the inmigration of people of low income is there. we have to have some help from the federal government. or new york will strangle. this is mighty little help to ask for. that is the essential basis on which this argument is premised. i want to add that on a practical basis. mass transit will save the large sums of money needed for road construction which we finance every year. therefore. on balance. we make money when we make available additional money for mass transit rather than losing out with an automatic appropriation which the appropriations committee will allow for federal aid to roads. but one will talk to the 90to10. even as far as it goes up to $1 billion. this is $75 million. because we have this kind kind of capability which we keep haggling about. i do  think it is right.
. i shall  intrude further on the time of the senator from oklahoma except on this issue. i am a member of the appropriations committee. and i shall  challenge this report. which i think has been described properly by the senator from arkansas . the basis upon which i would challenge it is too narrow to challenge so extensive a compromise agreement. but i think it is very important to challenge the lack of wisdom in cutting 25 percent out of the appropriation for the u.s. travel service. an appropriation of $4 million as provided in the senate. and $3 million as allowed by the committee. which is really shortsighted in the extreme. it should be called markedly to the attention of the country. i do it because i have a rather deep feeling about the financial condition of the country. the estimated deficit from travel this year. as between americans that go abroad and what they spend there and foreigners who come here and what they spend here. is somewhere between $1.65 billion and $1.8 billion. the deficit last year was $1.644 billion. our principal travel competitors have increased their travel budgets by as much as 300 percent. our budget has remained the same for 7 years . and buys infinitely less because we all k costs have gone up at least onethird. in round figures. the arthur d. little survey of the u.s. travel service indicates that our promotional efforts since 1961 have added a minimum of $250 million in revenues from foreign tourists. and perhaps $400 million. that is a ratio of 35 to 1 in terms of benefits as compared to what we have appropriated. an excellent case was made to show that more money put into the situation is directly translated into more tourists. more promotional literature. and more work in their offices. i point out that this is terribly shortsighted ecoy. i do  k of anything worse we could do. when a $2 million or $3 million item in a budget of the size of the federal budget is a very small amount. especially when translated into what it means to the united states in terms of added income to this country. the whole thing seems ridiculous to me. and i just have to protest it.
ial task force on the problems of airport development. the membership of the task force was secret. the goals of the task force were secret. and the report which allegedly went to the white house was secret. the second chapter of the cloakanddagger story concerns the report on airway modernization conducted by the federal aviation agency. the department of transportation for some inscrutable reasons has buried this as well. and. finally. in january the press reported a briefing " to be attributed" where "certain officials told of the departments plans to seek some legislation sometime this spring. it is time forthe department to step out from the shadows and to look around and see that these delays are compounding problems.  solving them. this lack of action is of grave concern  only to air travelers but to the flying majority of our people. especially in our cities which depend on quick linkage with their market areas. both domestic and foreign. several billion dollars must be spent within the next few years on u.s. airports. terminal buildings. parking lots. and access roads as well as on the modernization and safety of the airways systems aloft. the already overburdened federal budget can and should  cover this amount out of general tax revenues. part will be contributed by state and local governments and the rest must be raised by user charges such as passenger ticket taxes and by increased fuel taxes. as suggested by legislation which i introduced last august to establish an airport development fund for this purpose. an immediate start on specific legislation is necessary. if we are to enact an adequate program in the present session of congress. even so. few projects can be finished within 2 or 3 years after work is begun. thus. congestion will get worse before it gets better. meanwhile. it will take the highest type of leadership and ingenuity to make the most of existing facilities. as a member of the committee on government operations which established the department. i was aware that we would have to allow some time for the new department to get fully organized after it went into operation on april 1. 1967. in setting up this department. we created a delicate balance between the various modes of travel. the departments leadership must be exceedingly strong and determined  to miscalculate its responsibility simply because of pressure from one faction or aher. there was reason to delay steps that were urgent for air commerce and air safety a year ago. and  are reaching crisis stage. congestion around new york and other metropolitan centers is appallingly obvious to anyone who goes to a major airport on rush hours and sees the jam of auto traffic outside. the crowds at the ticket counters. and lines of aircraft awaiting their takeoff. many experts have predicted that the john f. kennedy airport will reach the saturation point by the end of this year. an idea of what we might expect in the future was demonstrated on friday. september 24. 1964. at kennedy airport. beginning at 2 p.m.. departure delays began to increase. by 6 p.m. 41 aircraft were waiting to take off with an average delay of 1 hour and 50 minutes. congestion had built up until by 10 p.m. the average delay for departing aircraft had climbed to 3 hours and 35 minutes. many waited more than 4 hours. such delays are said to cost air travelers and the airlines close to $100 million a year.  to mention ground traffic jams. a recent faa report predicts an average delay of 1 to 2 hours at john f. kennedy in 1970. at newark by 1974. at la guardia by 1976. at chicagos ohare by 1972. and at los angeles international by 1975. the crucial fact which many have overlooked is that the business of air transportation in an area like metropolitan new york exceeds $1 billion. the airport congestion dilemma is of significance  only to those who actually travel. it affects the livelihood of thousands who have never flown or even set foot in an air terminalthe hotel waiter. the taxi driver. the theater owner. and other thousands. in the new york metropolitan area. 180.000 people earning more than $1 billion a year have jobs directly related to air transportation according to airport services management. the professional airport magazine whose february issue features an excellent study of new yorks airports. airplanes and the passengers and cargo they carry form the nucleus of a vast network of related industrial activity. about 53.000 people earning $450.000.000 a year work at kennedy international and laguardia airports in new york and at newark and teterboro airports in new jersey. elsewhere in the metropolitan area aher 18.000 people earning $175.000.000 are employea in air transportation. local purchases of materials. passenger service activities. ground transportation. and visitor spending create aher 112.000 jobs paying about $725.000.000 annually. the 7.500.000 air travelers visiting the area each year spend an estimated $720.000.000 locally for goods and services. in spite of these compelling figures. the department of transportation has taken steps to cushion the impact which the continuing congestion crisis might have on so many lives. the department has only given us a series of secret studies. aher example of the reticence in the department on ination has been demonstrated in its handling of development of short takeoff and landing aircraft--stol. this new and exciting mode of air travel may have great potential to relieve congestion and perhaps revolutionize intercity mass transportation. we may soon be talking in terms of flying from one city center to aher city center hundreds of miles away.  only would this relieve the congestion at the major hub airports but it will also play a major role in relieving our intercity automobile travel and downtown to airport delays and costs. such planes can land on short runways at slow speeds. for this purpose. shortlanding aircraft strips must be developed so that stol planes can land at hub airports without conflicting with jet traffic and can divert traffic away from hub fields through downtown "miniports." the secretary of transportation is apparently  overly concerned with stol development. however. while the faaan agency within the departmentis rushing tests of stol aircraft standards so that they might be in operation within a year. secretary boyd talked in terms of stol aircraft being 7 years away. at the senate aviation subcommittee hearings last august: we do  look to v/stol and stol aircraft as providing any immediate relief. as it is  anticipated that they will be a significant factor before 1975. it may be that this information gap is typical of the problems of this new agency. it is time to face the realities of the overly congested air system with a plan of action. last august 31. i introduced a proposal to establish an airport development fund which would be financed by user taxes. in view of the estimated $6 billion requirement for airport development within the next 8 years. and the fact that the administration has failed to budget more than $65 million in the next fiscal year for federal aid to airports. it seems to me that the congress should. after all this time. have some definite proposal to consider. in my testimony before the senate aviation subcommittee last august. i said: during these hearings we have seen further examples of the failure of the administration to really come to grips with this dilemma. the secretary talked of financing as a central problemand i certainly agree. yet. although he suggested a $1 "head" tax to make extra funds available. he would  commit himself to any one approach when actually pinned down. i think it is time we took the big step forward and unite behind a single plan to raise funds for airport development. i propose such a plan today while being aware that the various aviation groups will criticize. the sooner we realize that plan for airport development will satisfy all the interests concernedor answer all the problemsthe sooner we can get on with doing the job as best we can. on december 7. 1967. when it became clear that the administration would  offer a bill during the last session. i wrote to - secretary boyd asking for his comments on my bill. i finally received a reply on march 4. 1968almost 3 months laterfrom assistant secretary m. cecil mackey. after all this time. the letter fails to set out any specific administration recommendations or comments on my bill. instead. the reply is a compendium of generalities such asairport development to increase capacity and relieve congestion is a matter which we in the department of transportation agree needs attention. surely we can expect more of the department than this. in summary. the following two steps are most urgent to deal with the airport crisis: first. a report by the administration on necessary legislation for the financing of airports and airways should be sent to congress immediately. second. a priority list for the most urgent projects. including hub airport work. stol strips. and reliever airports. should be set by faa so the local governments can concentrate on the planning and financing of work most needed. present listing in the national airport plan among thousands of projects does  set any such priorities. march 13. 1968 coln it is time we were able to look to the department of transportation for leadership in the aviation field. we in congress have the obligation to insure that the public safety and the public convenience are given the proper priorities. the tightening squeeze of airport congestion convinces me that we can be satisfied with the mystique of secret reports any longer.
i was per suaded that senators without private means should be able to raise and use contributions for office expenses provided the uses to which funds could be directed were limited in character. were specifically set forth. and provided that there was fully disclosed to the public the sources of such funds. in this way. there would be question of ambiguity or igance of the requirements. although i run a very substantial deficit over and above my salary in order to maintain my office. i did  intend to accept the benefit of this provision. however. i am persuaded that there are those senators who can afford to perform their senatorial duties and to report regularly and effectively to their constituents without some contributed financial aid. i shall watch carefully the operation of this amendment and if experience shows it to be undesirable. i will move to repeal it. there had been a good deal of concern expressed that high public office is available only to the wealthy. the yarborough amendment will make it easier for any man. matter what his financial worth. to serve as a senator. i supported the amendment for this reason. for it is unjust and inequitable to allow this body to become a "millionaires club." however. we have an obligation to insure that the sources. amounts. and disposition of funds used to assist a senator in the performance of his duties will be publicly disclosed and can only be used for specific expenses associated with the senators duty to his constituents. such as travel to and from his home state. and mailing newsletters and reports to his constituents. i point out that this is the way campaign contributions are to be handled under the code and to make the requirements analogous seemed only fair. . i do  want this body to be a "millionaires club." neither does the country. this is a first trial at a code of ethics. the yarborough amendment was sustained by a vote of 43 to 28. which vote was made possible when the senator from texas consented to reconsideration. once this amendment was adopted. the senate. by a vote of 67 out of 68. showed that it was in favor of the code. i think this code should  be given a fair trial. i will seek to amend it. for the reasons i have set forth. if it fails to provide adequate safeguards.
it is my judgment that the block grants revenue sharing referred to the three committees is  going to get anywhere this year. i am very much for general revenue sharing. and that will have direct impact on this kind of operating subsidy. second. the urgency of the situation is made very clear by the committee itself. the committee. on page 57 of its report. stated: the committee rejected the administrations suggestion for further study. accordingly. hearings on "emergency urban mass transit legislation." were conducted january 31february 2. 1972. then the committee says. at page 62 of the report: on the basis of such evidence. reports and testimony. it has become evident to the committee that increasingly passenger revenues can meet operating expenses. that the problem is national in its dimensions. and that if mass transit is to perform an essential public service. federal support for operating expenses is a prerequisite. i therefore answer that. one. action is unlikely on this matter this year. two. the situation can wait. more and more transit systems will be shut down. there will be more and more crowding on the roads. there will be more and more fatalities and accidents on the roads. there will be more and more inconvenience to the american people. there will be more and more ecoic loss. all this will happen because we are  looking after the very fact that we can effectively and efficiently address the problem in congested metropolitan areas in this manner.
that is right. i hope our conferees on the appropriations committee will bear that very much in mind. people around here are inclined to have long memories. and i am  worried about the fact. but we will in this case. especially with the attitude of the chairman of the appropriations committee. second. as was shown by the votes in the senate. the program which we had in mind for the railroad roadbeds has emous support in the country. and members of the house. just like members of the senate. represent their people. there were two rollcall votes. . we have lost the battle but we have  lost the war. and it is that aspect of the matter to which i have addressed myself today. finally. let me say that one could have behaved and acted and performed with better spirit and with greater integrity to his duty and to his own conscience than senator mcclellan. i k senator young also expressed how he felt about this matter in a very genuine way. i owe a great debt to senator mcclellan without whose support we would  have had the major vote we did on the $175 million offer. and i count very heavily on the fact that he continues. as he has just said. to be very pronced in favor of the proposition in which the senate sought to maintain. i thank the chair.
we want to persuade him in toto. if we can. may i again ask senator montoya. as i say. on the faith of the government operations committee. if he will  take this to conference. commitments. just give an opportunity to save maybe 3 or 4 months. if the senator is convincedi am speaking personally. i shall take his decisionthat we are really  on the road that the commission deserves the budget estimate.
. my interest in stimulating employment of exaddicts led me to sponsor a conference of business leaders to promote this goal. i am  pleased to commend to the attention of my colleagues a recent decision by federal judge thomas p. griesa which held as unconstitutional an employment policy which excluded from jobs methadone maintained exaddicts. judge griesas opinion came in a class action against the new york city transit authority brought in the u.s. district court. southern district of new yorkbeazer. et al. v. new york city transit authority. et. al.. 72 civ. 5307. the action challenged the blanket exclusion from any form of employment in the new york city subway and bus systems of all former heroin addicts participating in methadone maintenance programs. regardless of the individual merits of the employee or the applicant. plaintiffs also alleged that there was a similar exclusionary policy even against former heroin addicts who have concluded successfully their participation in a methadone program. the courts ruling makes clear that methadone maintained exaddicts are fully capable of performing a wide variety of jobs. including those that might entail danger to themselves or to the public. i ask unanimous consent that the summary of conclusions of the thoughtful 88page opinion. and newspaper articles hailing this landmark decision. be printed in the record.
