madam president. i think the fact that we have the ination of dr. hackney and ms. acheson both before us for consideration. dr. hackney to head the national endowment for the humanities and ms. acheson to be an assistant attorney general. it is a sad commentary on the partisanship that prevails within these committees. if this had taken place under a republican president with both of those inees being republicans. there is way in the world they would have come to this floor. on dr. hackney. they would have said he trampled all. over the freedom of speech. on ms. acheson they would have said. "oh. she belonged to a club that discriminated and only resigned just in time when she was inated." those are the exact facts. she belonged to the country club in brookline for many years that clearly had discriminated. it seems to me very. very unfortunate that we have this double standard existing within the committees because we all served during the years when president reagan and president bush were inating various candidates. an entirely different standard. different than that applied to m. acheson and dr. hackney. applied. i am going to vote for both of those inees. i do  think the transgression that dr. hackney made was something that we can applaud by a long shot. but i have heard from many who have kn him for many. many years and do  think that one or two transgressions. if you would. should cause his ination to fail. so i am going to give them the benefit of the doubt. i do  think our republic is going to collapse if dr. hackney is inated. and indeed many people think he is an excellent individual ms. acheson. likewise. i will support her because i think that somebody who belongs to a club that perhaps she was  very active in.- and a club in some fashion discriminates--i do  think that makes that person a bigot. but i think we ought to have the same rules apply to everybody who comes before us for a ination. madam president. i would like to go on and say i think this whole ination process has gotten out of hand. on the environment and public works committee we deal with the inees to sit on the board of the tva. the tva is hardly an organization that ranks up in the top in sensitivity or the disclosure of national secrets of some fashion. yet. the background checks of both of those individuals that came before us. the fbi said they spoke to 46 different people46 different people for a inee to be on the board of the tva. the system has gone haywire around here. i. would like to point -out. madam president. that i was inated by the president to be secretary of the navy in 1969. january. that was a new ad- west virginia board of education verministration that had just come in sue barnette. which held unconstitujanuary 1969. that was an administra- tional an attempt. to compel public tion of a different party. the previous school students to salute the flag. .party had been that of president john- i have - used this standard. the son. the democratic party. and i was barnette test of tolerance. to judge processed. investigated. confirmed. and several of the inees president clinsworn in by january 31. ton has chosen to join his administrathe new secretary of the navy. cho- tion. sen under exactly the same cir- despite my usual deference to any cumstances. a new administration president in choosing his administracoming from a different administration tion. including people with whom i profrom the prior one. a different political foundly disagree. like robert reich. party. was sworn in the end of july. the secretary of labor. donna shalala. that is 6 months difference. indeed. the secretary of health and human there is a paltry number of individuals services. and jocelyn elders for sursworn into office over at the pentagon geon general. i reject those inees right . and so it is through all of who fail the barnette testthose who the departments. are inch tolerant of conflicting views. i just think that we have to sit back who have used or are likely to use poand review what we are doing. walter litical power to punish their opponents mondale confirmed by the senate to be or to pursue policies destructive of the ambassador to japan on july 30. last social fabric which binds us together as friday. walter mondale who served as americans or who are indifferent to u.s. senator. who served as a vice constitutional principles. president of the united states. what president clinton. regrettably has better qualifications do we want. yet. sent the senate four such inees. it took to get him through the process. roberta achtenberg. lani guinier. the fbi checks. all that goes with it. thomas payzant and  sheldon up until july 30. 6 monthsmore than hackney. the presidents choice for the 6. 7 months after this administration national endowment for the humancame to office. ities. so. madam president. i would hope three welldocumented and pubthat everybody would say to them- licized events during dr. hackneys selves the system has gone haywire. tenure at the university of pennsylvathat a inee. let us look at him. nia illustrate his lack of potential for those that we k something about. effective leadership of the national enit does  mean we have to have 47 dowment for the humanities. a posibackground checks by the fbi. walter tion entrusted with more than 3150 milmondale. we all k him. he has cer- lion a year in taxpayer money to spend tainly kept the secrets of the nation for the advancement of the humanities. and carried out his duties with superb in each case. dr. hackney showed an form during the years that he was vice alarming willingness to act or to fall to president. act only in conformance with the most happily he finally was confirmed. in extreme academic doctrine of political all fairness. it was  the senate that correctness and totally inconsistent slowed that up. it took forever to get with the very qualities of courage. balthe ination up here. i do  k ance. reason and fairness. which should what the clearances were that they mark the humanitarian spirit. sought. clearly as vice president he dr. hackney has time and time again had every clearance kn to man. shown indifference when an advocate every security clearance. for the truth was needed. silence when so. madam president. i would hope a spokesman for justice was needed. an that  only in these cases we would appeasement where leadership was remove forward with dispatch. and get quired. and a willingness to persecute the debate done. i think 5 hours of de- where courage was required. bate on mr. hackney is going beyond sheldon hackney falls miserably something that is reasonable. there short of the qualities required of our are plenty who have thoughtful views nations chief spokesman for the huon him. pro and con. let us hear them. inanities. let us get on with the vote. but in the take. first. the universitys infamous future. let us  have 47 interviews by paper chase. the fbi for a inee for the tva au- on the night of april 15. a number of thority. black students engaged in a campusi thank the chair. wide coordinated assault to retrieve
