ial appointment for 14 months and are deserving of the vote of confidence accorded them by the senate. already in this debate the provisions of h. r. 4567 have been outlined and discussed. for the record. hbwever. i review them as briefly as possible. first. this bill would increase the number of displaced persons to be accepted by our government from 205.000 to 339.000. of whom 18.000 would come from the polish army which fought with us during the war and is  in england. 15.000 would be recent political refugees from behind the iron curtain. 4.000 would be refugees stranded in shanghai. and 5.000 would be orphans. second. the date line for eligibility would be advanced from december 22. 1945. to january 1. 1949. thereby removing one of the major provisions in the present act. which has resulted in a pattern of discrimination. third. the bill would eliminate other discriminatory restrictions by accepting the basic principle that the selection of displaced persons should be made without discrimination in favor of or against any race. religion. or national origin. by removing the present 40 percent preference in favor of the balts. by omitting the 30 percent preference in favor of agriculture. although retaining farming as an occupational preference. and finally by dropping the preference in favor of socalled incamp displaced persons. fourth. the bill would so broaden the definition of orphans as to permit the admission of many children who are  barred. fifth. the bill would enable displaced persons who arrived in the united states prior to april 30. 1949. to receive the benefits of the status of those who have been admitted under the 1948 act. sixth. the bill would assist american sponsors of displaced persons by providing a revolving loan fund of $5.000.000 to meet the expenses of reception and transportation in the united states. thus encouraging the widest possible geographic distribution of displaced persons throughout the united states. seventh. the bill would double the number of ethnic germans who may be admitted under the law. thereby permitting the admission of almost 52.000 ethnic germans. eighth. additional safeguards have been added to insure the internal security of the united states. there are compelling reasons why h. r. 4567 should be passed in the senate without further delay. let me discuss briefly two of these reasons. in the first place. the united states has a definite moral responsibility with respect to displaced persons. in a very real sense this responsibility is an international obligation. except that in this instance we are dealing with human beings and  with dollars or with armaments or with sacks of potatoes. these unfortunate men. women. and children have been waiting and praying these many years for an opportunity to start a new and decent life. they have been living under subhuman conditions. this great country of ours has a glorious tradition as the haven for the oppressed and the land of hope and opportunity for those less fortunate than ourselves who subscribe to our lofty ideals and principles and turn to us for a helping hand in their struggle toward a new and better life. somehow many people seem to have acquired the erroneous idea that the united states already has taken a large share of the displaced persons in europe. hing could be further from the truth. actually. this country has accepted only about 15 percent of all of the displaced persons who have been resettled in new homelands. as of june 30. 1949. approximately 604.500 displaced persons had been resettled in all countries throughout the world. of that number. as of that date. the united states had accepted only 84.100. of whom 44.000 had been admitted by executive authority pursuant to existing law. prior to the enactment of the displaced persons act of 1948. since the enactment of the 1948 act. as of september 30. 1949. an overall total of 90.000 displaced persons have either arrived or are en route. compare these figures to the 123.000 persons taken by wartorn little israel as of june 30. 1949. and the 99.000 persons taken in that same period by bombedout britain. herself in the throes of serious domestic problems. in this connection it should be ed that this figure for the british is over and above the almost 150.000 polish soldiers whom britain had accepted previously. in the light of these facts. can we honestly say we have done our share. is 15 percent of the total number of persons to be resettled throughout the world a reasonable. hoable number to be accepted by a country which prides itself on its humanity. its resources. and its leadership in world affairs. house bill 4567 would authorize the admission of an additional 134.000 persons. distributed properly throughout all the 48 states. in rural and urban areas. in all walks of life. of these 134.000 people. more than half would be wage earners. i appreciate most thoroughly the concern which some express with regard to the effect which this additional number of persons would have upon our ecoy. especially where employment and housing are involved. i realize that there would be legitimate grounds for such concern if. without regard to their emplbyment or distribution or ultimate location. 67.000 additional wage earners were suddenly to be cast loose in a few urban centers of the united states. but under the terms of house bill 4567. properly administered and aided by the wholehearted cooperation of the american people. there would seem to me to be occasion for the fears which some persons express. for by the processes that are contemplated. all the displaced persons we might thus receive should be satisfactorily absorbed within our american ecoy and our american society.
