. today i am introducing legislation that aims to use existing funds to expand the state cemetery grant program. the veterans cemetery partnership act will expand the state veterans cemetery grant program. in order for state cemeteries to receive federal grants to defray the cost of up to 50 percent of their expenses for operation. maintenance. and initial equipment. it also eliminates the $150 plot allowance that the veterans administration  pays directly to state veterans cemeteries each time a veteran is buried thereonly for those state cemeteries that receive grants under my legislation. the state cemetery grant program. which was established in 1978. is designed to assist any state in establishing. expanding or improving stateowned cemeteries for veterans. currently. states may apply for grants to cover up to 50 percent of these costs. which primarily involve land acquisition and construction. unfortunately. the federal government can realistically assume the full burden of providing veterans cemeteries for all veterans who wish to be buried with their comradesinarms. as a result. there are 12 states. including rhode island. that do  have a national veterans cemetery. and five more whose national cemeteries are closed to new interments. in addition. there are nine large states whose national cemeteries are too far away from the homes of many veterans and their families. as a result. state veterans cemeteries play a critical role in serving the needs of veterans. since the state cemetery grant program was created. only 18 states have applied for 38 grants to establish new cemeteries or expand or improve existing ones. these grant awards have averaged about $600.000. many states are reluctant to take advantage of this program because they will  be able to afford the full cost of establishing new cemeteries. and may be forced to abandon or sell stateowned veterans cemeteries because of the inability to maintain them. thus. there is money left over in the state cemetery grant program budget that we can put to good use. my bill does  call for the expenditure of any additional funds. of the funds available to the state cemetery grant program since its inception. almost $4 million has remained unspent. i believe this leftover money should be used to help state veterans cemeteries pay for their operation and maintenance. elimination of the plot allowance paid to state veterans cemeteries would consolidate all federal aid to state cemeteries into one account. right . part of the assistance state cemeteries receive come from the state cemetery grant program. while aher part. the plot allowances. comes out of the department of veterans benefitstwo different offices at the veterans administration. it would also eliminate a technicality in the current law governing the payment of death benefits. at present. this technicality in effect prevents state veterans cemeteries from getting reimbursed for the burial of veterans whose deaths are attributed to serviceconnected causes. perhaps most important. this provision transforms an entitlement into a grant. although the end resultfederal assistance to state veterans cemeteriesis the same. changing an entitlement into a grant is philosophically very important: it bolsters the federalstate partnership that was created by the state cemetery grant program. instead of the federal government giving the states a handout. the two are working together to ensure that veterans needs are met. in any year that a state does  receive a grant for the maintenance and operation of its veterans cemeteries. it would continue to receive plot allowances from the vas department of veterans benefits. burial benefits that are  paid directly to the surviving families of veterans will remain unaffected by my legislation. the federal government stands to benefit from an extension of the state cemetery grant program partnership as well. first. such an extension encourages the states to assume a responsibility that the federal government can. second. the states are historically more costefficient in their construction and administration of facilities such as veterans benefits. thus. perhaps the federal govermnent would be able to learn something from the states through the veterans cemetery partnership act. i believe many veterans have the perception that the federal government has forgotten them and their fine service to their country. perhaps the simplest and most important thing we can do to ensure that veterans are remembered is to provide places where we can go to reflect on their heroism and sacrifice in the name of freedomplaces where our veterans will be hoed by us forever. if the federal govermnent can do this itself. it must ensure that the states are able and willing to provide and maintain these resting places of ho. i urge all senators to join me in supporting the veterans cemetery partnershlip act.*
. today. i am introducing legislation that aims to use existing funds to expand the state cemetery grant program. the veterans cemetery partnership act will expand the state veterans cemetery grant program. in order for state cemeteries to receive federal grants to defray the cost of up to 50 percent of their expenses for operation. maintenance. and initial equipment. it also eliminates the $150 plot allowance that the department of veterans affairs  pays directly to state veterans cemeteries each time a veteran is buried thereonly for those state cemeteries that receive grants under my legislation. the state cemetery grant program. which was established in 1978. is designed to assist any state in establishing. expanding or improving stateowned cemeteries for veterans. currently. states may apply for grants to cover up to 50. percent of these costs. which primarily involve land acquisition and construction. unfortunately. the federal government can realistically assume the full burden of providing veterans cemeteries for all veterans who wish to be buried with their comradesinarms. as a result. there are 12 states. including rhode island. that do  have a national veterans cemetery. and 5 more whose national cemeteries are closed to new interments. in addition. there are nine large states whose national cemeteries are to far away from the homes of many veterans and their families. as a result. state veterans cemeteries play a critical role in serving the needs of veterans. since the state cemetery grant program was created. only 18 states have applied for 38 grants to establish new cemeteries or expand or improve existing ones. these grant awards have averaged about $600.000. many states are reluctant to take advantage of this program because they will  be able to afford the full cost of establishing new cemeteries. and may be forced to abandon or sell stateowned veterans cemeteries because of the inability to maintain them. thus. there is money left over in the state cemetery grant program budget that we can put to good use. my bill does  call for the expenditure of any additional funds. of the funds available to the state cemetery grant program since its inception. almost $4 million has remained unspent. i believe this leftover money should be used to help state veterans cemeteries pay for their operation and maintenance. elimination of the plot allowance paid to state veterans cemeteries would consolidate all federal aid to state cemeteries into one account. right . part of the assistance state cemeteries receive come from the state cemetery program. while aher part. the plot allowances. comes out of the department of veterans benefitstwo different offices at the department of veterans affairs. it would also eliminate a technicality in the current law governing the payment of death benefits. at present. this technicality in effect prevents state veterans cemeteries from getting reimbursed for the burial of veterans whose deaths are attributed to serviceconnected causes. perhaps most important. this provision transforms an entitlement into a grant. although the end resultfederal assistance to state veterans cemeteriesis the same. changing an entitlement into a grant is philosophically very important: it bolsters the federalstate partnership that was created by the state cemetery grant program. instead of the federal government giving the state a handout. the two are working together to ensure that veterans needs are met. in any year that a state does  receive a grant for the maintenance and operation of its veterans cemeteries. it would continue to receive plot allowances from the dvas department of veterans benefits. burial benefits that are  paid directly to the surviving families of veterans will remain unaffected by my legislation. the federal government stands to benefit from an extension of the state cemetery grant program partnership as well. first. such an extensin encourages the states to assume a responsibility that the federal government can. second. the states are historically more cost efficient in their construction and administration of facilities such as veterans benefits. thus. perhaps the federal government would be able to learn something from the state through the veterans cemetery partnership act. i believe many veterans have the perception that the federal government has forgotten them and their fine service to their country. perhaps the simplest and most important thing we can do to ensure that veterans are remembered is to provide places where we can go to reflect on their heroism and sacrifice in the name of freedomplaces where our veterans will be hoed by us forever. if the federal government can do this itself. it must ensure that the states are able and willing to provide and maintain these resting places of ho. i urge all senators to join me in supporting the veterans cemetery partnership act.* by mr. armstrong (for himself and mr. syns):
 requested $14.000.000. the committee has reported out $300.000. a reduction of $13.700.000. or 98 percent. the two major items were $5.060.000 for fellowships and $8.155.000 for the support of basic research. if this recommendation of $300.000 is finally passed it will necessarily postpone these two programs for at least aher year. the $300.000 recommended will  even permit the foundation to organize a capable planning staff. i am most fearful that it will tend to discourage the national science board. which is made up of outstanding leaders. as well as other scientific groups whose willingness to cooperate in the initial development of the program has been excellent. i would like to discuss briefly some of the facts with reference to the first request for fellowships. obviously it would affect directly the scientific manpower situation. it was planned to have 1.400 first year fellowships at an average of $2.000 and a total cost of $2.800.000. 400 secondyear fellowships at an average cost of $2.300 and a total cost of $920.000. 200 thirdyear fellowships at an average cost of $2.500 and a total cost of $500.000. 100 postdoctoral fellowships at an average cost of $3.500 and a total cost of $350.000. consequently. there would be 2.100 of these fellowships at an average of $2.176 and a total cost of $4.570.000. an additional $400.000 was the cost of testing and selecting. there is a critical need for trained scientists and engineers . the want ad columns of the daily press prove this. it is a kn fact that the graduates of our colleges and universities are engaged by industry just as soon as they have finished their education. * the engineers joint council. representing almost all engineers in the united states. has estimated that engineering graduates will decline from 50.000 in 1950 to 17.000 in 1954. the demand for new engineers in 1954 for defense work alone will exceed 30.000. a very similar shortage exists in connection with science graduates. it is reliably reported that 25 percent of the best graduates from our universities and colleges are prevented from continuing their studies solely by reason of lack of funds. this is the equivalent of 8.000 lost scientists annually. in connection with the basic research support program it is clear that this should  be postponed. progress in many fields has been and is being hampered for lack of basic kledge. for instance. this applies to aircraft design. jet engine metallurgy. guided missile development. liquid fuel production. military medicine. and atomic power. this kind of research. although it is being done to some extent. should be substantially increased . the various groups which have studied our overall needs have recommended far greater expenditures than were contained in the budget request of $14.000.the bush report proposed $500.000.000 to be spent in the first 10 years. the steelman report recommended a national expenditure of $250.000.000 by 1957 and indicated that at least 1 percent of the national income would be wisely used for basic research. the bureau of the budget recommended an initial expenditure of $25.000.000 a year for this purpose. it indicated that this amount could be spent wisely during the first year. i think that informed person will deny that at this very moment basic research is in the same category as critically needed copper or manganese or any other vital mineral in short supply. this country must maintain its scientific and technical supremacy if it is to hope to succeed in the effort to preserve peace or to win any war which is waged against us. it is also vitally important to continue our progress in scientific and technical fields if we are to maintain the high standards of living in this country. the best opinion i have is that the latest report of estimated expenditures in russia was in 1947 when that country spent over $1.000.000.000. for scientific research and education. surely one would question the probability that the expenditures in russia since that date have been at least at less an annual rate. world war ii was the first war in history to be affected decisively by new weapons developed after the outbreak of hostilities. vannevar bush called this "the most significant military fact of our decade." basic research leading to the atom bomb could  even begin until discovery of neutron in 1933. nuclear fission was  discovered until 1939. the first bomb was exploded less than 6 years later. this almost unbelievable speed in utilizing basic kledge is typical of existing techogy and must be reckoned with as a cold hard fact. i think that it is too often overlooked that the pressure is constantly upon outstanding scientists to abandon their work in basic research in order to take lucrative employment in applied research. the congress recognized this when it created the national science foundation but it only began on the task of solving the problem involved. we must take satisfactory and sound action before it is too late. finally. i would like to summarize briefly the background and reasons for the program the foundation would like to undertake in this current fiscal year. i believe sincerely that if congress gives its ultimate approval to the program there is every reason to believe that it can succeed. in connection with the research policy development and services. it requested funds for the following purposes: development of a national science policy --------------------$50.000 dissemination of scientific information --------------------------- 285. 000 maintenance of the national scientific register ------------------- 156. 000 support of the interdepartmental committee on scientific research and development -------------26 000 operating costs of the foundation_- 268. 000 total --------------------- 785.000 the national science foundation act contains the authorization and direction to the foundation in section 3 (a) (1) "to develop and encourage the pursuit of a national policy for the promotion of basic research and education in the sciences." i k that the foundation regards this function as a primary responsibility. such a policy must be compounded of many ingredients. it must draw on the thinking of a wide variety of leaders in the scientific disciplines and of outstanding laymen whose experience has given them kledge and understanding of scientific research. much of the planning of a national science policy would be done by the members of the national science board and the staff of the foundation. to supplement the board and the staff. the foundation is authorized to establish special commissions to make comprehensive surveys of research. both public and private. recommending to the foundation an overall research program in the field of the survey. the 7 oard has stated that it expected that at least two such commissions would be appointed and commence deliberations in the coming fiscal year. finally. the advice and comment of organized scientific groups. including professional societies and conferences. and the published thinking of individuals must be considered and utilized where portinent. for research support it is proposed to furnish grants. contracts. and other arrangements for basic research in the sciences distributed among the following major classifications: medical sciences -------------- $1.300. 000 biological sciences_.: ----------- 2. 600. 000 mathematical. physical. and engineering sciences ---------- 3.913.000 operating cost ---------------- 342. 000 total ------------------ 8. 155. 000 major responsibility is derived from section 3 (a) (2). which authorizes and directs the foundation "to initiate and support basic scientific research in the mathematical. physical. medical. biological. engineering. and other sciences. and to appraise the impact of research upon industrial development and upon the general welfare." the leading ecoic. industrial. and military position of the united states is due in large part to the techogical ability of the american people. our real genius as a nation has been the power to convert scientific kledge into practical utility. evidence of this is found on every hand. in industry. in business. in public health. and. during two world wars. in our military power. it is fundamental to our high standard of living. by and large. however. it is only recently that the country has come to recognize that techogical advances are made possible only through the application of fundamental scientific kledge already kn. this fundamental kledge has been a heritage available to us from the accumulated findings of science all over the world. we drew heavily upon this stockpile during the war. very seriously depleting it. since research has very nearly come to a standstill in most other countries. the replenishment of this stockpile  rests chiefly in our own hands. certainly. among the western nations the responsibility is ours. and it is indeed a grave one. the funds requested for the training of scientific manpower would establish a fellowship program which would augment scientific manpower essential for the progress of science. the national welfare. and the national defense. the total estimate is as follows: fellowship program ---------- $4. 970.000 operating costs of the foundation ---------------------- 90.000 total ------------------ 5.060. 000 under section 3 (a) (4) of the act the foundation is authorized "to award scholarships and graduate fellowships in the mathematical. physical. medical. biological. engineering. and other sciences." the present need for a graduate fellowship program arises from the following facts: first. the continued industrial progress of the nation is dependent on an adequate supply of trained scientists and technicians. second. in time of national emergency. the need for trained scientists and technicians is greater than usual. industry must continue its mal research and development program at a reasonable level. scientists in academic institutions must to a large extent continue teaching and research. yet the nation must emously expand its efforts in research and development in support of the military program. third. training of graduate students to the doctorate level is necessary to provide scientists who will be most productive in terms of ideas and additions to our store of basic kledge in the sciences. the 3 years of postgraduate study necessary for a doctorate permit the student to attain a level of proficiency which enables him to engage in original and independent research. generally speaking. it is here that our leaders in research are trained. fourth. a graduate fellowship program will increase the total capacity of science for all purposes. including industrial progress and national defense. i urgently recommend that these and all the other facts about the development of this program be given the most sympathetic consideration by this congress before we reach the final decision as to funds for the foundation.
