 kennedy has emphasized the importance of ecoic development in latin america. millions of dollars have been poured into venezuela under the alliance for. progress. yet all the aid that we can put into the country will  have the desired effect unless we eliminate prohibitive restrictions on foreign trade with venezuela. ninetyfive percent of venezuelas foreign trade income is from the export of petroleum products. fiftyfive percent of venezuelas crude oil production ends up as residual. the united states has been its  1 customer. obviously these unjustified restrictions have severely injured the foreign trade position of one of our most important latin american friends. finally. . i am glad the opportunity has arisen to ask these questions. as i said at the outset. we in new england have waited a long time for the answers. but we are becoming impatient. we have a right to choose the type of fuel which best serves our needs and to buy it in a free competitive market where we are  penalized for our choice. i hope my friends from the coal producing states can finally give us in new england the answers we seek.
madam president. i express my opposition to the oil import fee amendment to the compact of free association. a $10 tariff on every barrel of crude oil or petroleum product imported into the united states will have a severed impact on the u.s. ecoy. foreign suppliers will pass on all. or part of. the import fee. domestic oil producers will raise their prices to match imported prices. domestic refiners. which operate at very low margins. will attempt to pass all cost increases through to their customers. oil consumers will. thus. bear the brunt of the tariff. according to a study by the petroleum marketing association of america. for every $1 per barrel tax on imported crude oil. consumers pay almost $8 billion per year in increased petroleum prices. thus. the impact on consumers of a $10 tariff is $80 billion per year. this tariff will impose an unfair burden on new england. because of its dependence on oil. new englands ecoy will suffer more than other areas of the country. about 70 percent of rhode islands energy consumption is oil. versus the national average of 40 percent. rhode island is particularly vulnerable because of its heavy reliance on imported oil. which represents 70 percent of total oil consumption. crude oil producing states will benefit at the expense of energy dependent states. the nation as a whole will also suffer as a result of the oil import fee. the ripple effect of higheroil prices will result in an increased inflation rate. a reduction in gross national product. and increased unemployment. most u.s. products will become less competitive internationally. if they have some direct or indirect petroleum component in their cost structure. while an import fee will benefit domestic crude oil producers. many industries and homeowners will be hurt. oil refiners. airlines. railroads. and petrochemical firms will all be faced with rising product costs and declining profits. individual households will see cost increases for gasoline. heating bills. and goods and services produced from petroleum products.  that the price of oil has declined. the american consumer and the ecoy should be allowed to benefit. instead. we are  considering an oil import fee. an oil price increase will retard ecoic growth and spur inflation. i ruge my colleagues  to support this measure.
madam president. i express my opposition to the oil import fee amendment to the compact of free association. a $10 tariff on every barrel of crude oil or petroleum product imported into the united states will have a severed impact on the u.s. ecoy. foreign suppliers will pass on all. or part of. the import fee. domestic oil producers will raise their prices to match imported prices. domestic refiners. which operate at very low margins. will attempt to pass all cost increases through to their customers. oil consumers will. thus. bear the brunt of the tariff. according to a study by the petroleum marketing association of america. for every $1 per barrel tax on imported crude oil. consumers pay almost $8 billion per year in increased petroleum prices. thus. the impact on consumers of a $10 tariff is $80 billion per year. this tariff will impose an unfair burden on new england. because of its dependence on oil. new englands ecoy will suffer more than other areas of the country. about 70 percent of rhode islands energy consumption is oil. versus the national average of 40 percent. rhode island is particularly vulnerable because of its heavy reliance on imported oil. which represents 70 percent of total oil consumption. crude oil producing states will benefit at the expense of energy dependent states. the nation as a whole will also suffer as a result of the oil import fee. the ripple effect of higheroil prices will result in an increased inflation rate. a reduction in gross national product. and increased unemployment. most u.s. products will become less competitive internationally. if they have some direct or indirect petroleum component in their cost structure. while an import fee will benefit domestic crude oil producers. many industries and homeowners will be hurt. oil refiners. airlines. railroads. and petrochemical firms will all be faced with rising product costs and declining profits. individual households will see cost increases for gasoline. heating bills. and goods and services produced from petroleum products.  that the price of oil has declined. the american consumer and the ecoy should be allowed to benefit. instead. we are  considering an oil import fee. an oil price increase will retard ecoic growth and spur inflation. i ruge my colleagues  to support this measure.
is the distinguished senator from alabama aware. for example. that the arabs imposed their first oil embargo in october of 1973. and here it is february 1975. and the u.s. senate has yet to pass any legislation addressing itself to the energy crisis. and yet. for some reason or other. it is business as usual as far as rule xxii is concerned.
 to make a finding that a "severe energy supply interruption exists or is imminent." as the implementation of the iranian embargo establishes this fact. and second. action  under procedures approved by congress is imperative.
 from adopting any form of a tariff system. such language would obviously prevent any reasonable change in the present oil import system. if and when the senate has to face that issue. i am hopeful that this body will remove this invidious section from the bill.
. in massachusetts winter means s. ice. and arctic temperatures. that is why issue is more important to the citizens of massachusetts than the current fuel oil shortage. for yet aher winter the commonwealth of massachusetts has had to bear the brunt of an unfair discriminatory import quota system which denies massachusetts and all of new england adequate heating fuel. both branches of the massachusetts legislature have responded to the present crisis by turning to the federal government for succor. by unanimous vote. the massachusetts house of representatives and the massachusetts state senate ask the administration and congress to redress a very real grievance. i share their sentiments and their indignation at our governments unwillingness to right an obvious wrong. i ask unanimous consent that these resolutions be printed in the record.
the second resolution reads as follows: resolution to place temporary restrictions on the exportation of certain petroleum products whereas there are current and anticipated shortages in the urited states of petroleum products essential to satisfy fuel needs. and whereas. while such shortages continue. the health. safety. and welfare of the american people are threatened. and industry is severely handicapped in the effort to attain production of commodities necessary (1) to the ecoic welfare of the united states. and (2) to insure the success of such program as may be adopted for aiding in the ecoic recovery of europe. and whereas this critical situation requires the temporary exercise of emergency powers for the purpose of relieving such shortages: therefore be it resolved. etc.. that during the period of 60 days beginning with the day after the date of the enactment of this joint resolution. and withstanding commitments heretofore made. it shall be unlawful to export kerosene. gas oil. distillate fuel oil. or residual fuel oil from the united states to any foreign country. except that(1) exports of any such product necessary for use by the armed forces of the united states may be made. (2) in the case of any foreign country which regularly imported any such product from the united states during the period from 1935 to 1940. both inclusive. exports thereto of such product .may be made during such 60day period in an amount  in excess of onetwelfth of .the average annual amount thereof exported to such country from the united states during such period from 1935 to 1940. (3) this joint resolution shall  require reduction of exports so as to reduce the imports into the dominion of canada from the united states below amounts conforming with the voluntary importreduction program heretofore undertaken by canadian authorities and canadian industry. sec. 2. whoever violates the provisions of section 1 of this joint resolution shall. upon conviction. be punished by a fine of  more than $10.000 or by imprisonment for  more than 2 years. or by both such fine and imprisonment. sec. 3. as used in this joint resolution. the term "united states" includes the territories and possessions of the united states. . you will e that subsection (3) of section 1. of each resolution exempts any reduction of exports into the dominion of canada from this country below amounts conforming with the voluntary import reduction program heretofore undertaken by the canadian authorities and canadian industry. i have a number of reasons for suggesting that exemption. for your reference. may i say that i quoted the press release from the department of commerce issued on january 2 as to this voluntary reduction. again. you will find it at page 329 of the record. january substantially. it is an agreement to reduce on the part of industry in canada its imports of finished kerosene. stove oil. furnace oil. and diesel oil from this country to 50 percent or less of the monthly average of imports in the first quarter of 1947. while the anncement made it clear that the current program would merely run through the month of january. i have been reliably informed that the canadian industry is  in session in an effort to continue. and perhaps even lessen. their requests for these types of oils during february and march. therefore. it is my contention that if our neighbors in canada. where conditions. so far as temperature and s are conccrned. are at least comparable. if  more severe. than prevailing conditions in new england and the thern part of the united states. can join hands with us to help relieve the desperate situation in this country. there is every reason to believe that the other friendly countries to which we propose to export substantial quantities of needed fuels would do as much. had they been requested. since the department of commerce has. at various times. indicated a doubt as to what this congress intended in legislation to which i shall refer later. and since during the testimony monday it was stated repeatedly that the legislation was construed to give only a "permissive" authority to the department. i submit that time should be lost in declaring at least an emphatic statement of congressional intention in terms of existing conditions. i must add that i do have some reservation as to whether more can be accomplished through negotiations between our officials and our industry and the canadian officials and their industry. evidence developed before the house committee on interstate and foreign commerce in december 1947 indicated an increase over 194647 of exports of oil to canada of approximately 385 percent. it is further my understanding from the testimony before the committee last monday that the oil shipped through the portland (maine) montreal pipe line is  included in our export data. that it is considered in transit from south america to canada. i k it is the intention of the house interstate and foreign commerce committee to obtain much more information as to the facts. but i do feel that we would be fully justified in exempting exports to the dominion of canada from any such resolution in view of their friendly initiative and efforts to assist us. next. iwant to call your attention to the fact that this first resolution is keyed to the canadian effort and is restricted to a period of 60 days. it is intended to tie the legislation directly into the quota program so that there can be misunderstanding. finally. you will find in each of the resolutions that exports necessary for use by the armed forces of the united states may be made. there still remains a great deal of doubt about the facts justifying the apparent allotment of 2.025.000 barrels of this particular fuel for japan and the ryukyus. the. justification should be carefully examined. next. turning to the second resolution. a different approach is taken. but basically it rests upon the assertion frequently made that we have been historically the suppliers to many of our neighboring countries and that if we were to place even a limitation on the amounts of fuel oil shipped to them it would create a very delicate and dangerous situation. i understand such proposals have been characterized as silly. in reply to that. it seems to me selfevident that these very countries are most anxious that the united states should remain at its full productive capacity and that they would gladly join with us. as canada has. in trying to bring that about. the news today of the shutdown in the detroit area simply points up similar desperate conditions in other localities which have  received wide ice. i do  k what the loss of production over the entire country in january has been. but i submit that any loss is unfortunate in this sense. moreover. i do  believe our friends in these other countries want to see the working men and women of america injured in terms of loss of work and wages. i think it is silly in the extreme to argue that the people of these countries would  be willing to share any shortages with us. and work out on a cooperative basis a program such as is suggested in these resolutions. to go back to the second resolution. there are two methods of approach. i have suggested that wherever any foreign country on this allocation program actually imported any of these products from the united states in the period between 1935 and 1940. both inclusive. then the same rule should apply50 percent reduction in the allocations for 60 daysin other words. onetwelfth of the average monthly amount exported to those countries during that period. however. you will e that the resolution as phrased would have the effect of completely prohibiting any exports of these desperately needed fuels to any country which. in fact. can demonstrate that we were historically a supplier in this period. in other words. it would result in an embargo. so far as new postwar customers are concerned. let me add that it is my understanding that up to a few weeks ago. the only screening undertaken by our government was by approving requests of "end users" relayed to us by the representatives of the sovereign governments involved. reference has been made during testimony that the "end users" submitted their requirements and that it was presumed that their governments had checked against the necessity of these requirements. that may be so. but i rather suspect that the gentlewoman from ohio. having sat. as she has  for several days. on the proposed european aid program. will agree with me that the history of the written requirements submitted by the sixteen nations was indicative of the desire to get more than perhaps was necessary and that they would accept a substantial reduction upon the suggestion from american officials. i have pride of authorship of these resolutions. as a matter of fact many of my colleagues. who feel as i do. joined with me and have made very constructive suggestions. i think the resolutions probably can be improved. i shall be glad to accept any suggestions from anybody. but i do submit that the time has come. the time is . when. if we are going to be as productive as we must be. if we are going to carry out the promises we say we should undertake. we must turn our eyes and our attention to the only great source outside of canada in this world today for the things the people in the other democratic nations say they need. i have to discharge my responsibility to the people of my district. i hope those of you who represent people in other districts who are old. who are sick. who are young. who are suffering. who are out of work will look into this matter carefully. it is my intention tonight to propose further references to significant testimony presented to the house committee on interstate and foreign commerce last july. last december. to the committee resolution of december 19. and to evidence during the current hearings. if you do  have a copy of the preliminary report of the committee. committed to the committee of the whole house on the state of the union and ordered printed january 26. i suggest you will find it a most helpful document. it is report  1270. eightieth congress. second session.
i may say to the gentleman from mississippi that again this morning the committee on interstate and foreign commerce addressed itself to that very vital problem. as a result of this hearing i am hopeful that a resolution will be brought to the floor. i want to say also that i am having prepared three additional different kinds of embargo resolutions. there are two pending already. which i submitted for consideration. the other three will set various periods of time. one 15 days. one 30 days. and one 60 days. it is my hope that we can present to the house a considered. reasoned. and a sound method of trying to retain in this country for the period of time which the interstate and foreign commerce committee recommends. sufficient of our domestic fuel to get us over this particular crisis. you will recall that that committee has expressed repeated concern as to the effect of continued exports of petroleum and petroleum products without the guarantee of the most careful kind of screening and- that in its report filed only a week ago. it stated thatthe existing and threatened situation is  so grave that exports should be stopped completely until it can be determined whether further exports are damaging to the ecoy of this country. i have been seriously concerned as to the effectiveness of the procedure under which the requests made for exports are examined. i think the fact that the export allocation to japan and the ryukus is reported to have been cut back from 2.470.000 barrels of petroleum products to 100.000 barrels is convincing evidence that the original allocation could  have been based upon anything remotely resembling a careful examination of the request. rather. it seems to me to be the best possible illustration of the unfortunate fact that in certain responsible quarters the admitted needs of our domestic ecoy has carried little. if any. weight in arriving at these determinations. you will e that i have chosen three relatively short periods during which such an embargo would be effective. personally. i think much can be said for the selection of the 60day period. while it may be argued that it is too long. i think we must recognize that this will be the most critical period for most of the thern sections of the country and that if we can somehow manage to divert these amounts of heating and fuel oils to those areas. it is just possible that we can avoid more serious consequences. it also seems to me to be selfevident that one is prepared to tell any of us what the stock piles are in any of these countries. consequently. i do  see how it can be stated with any assurance by anyone that such an admittedly drastic step. which certainly will help to relieve conditions here. would necessarily make conditions elsewhere any worse than they are within the borders of this country. since i understand it is  possible to file the resolutions until monday and because i want the text before the committee during these hearings. as well as available to all of the members of the house.. i am including the text of the first resolution. the only change in the other tw6 resolutions will be the substitution of the periodsof 30 and 60 days. respectively. joint resolution to temporarily prohibit the exportation of petroleum and petroleum products whereas there are current and anticipated shortages in the united states of petroleum and petroleum products essential to satisfy fuel needs. and whereas while such shortages continue. the health. safety. and welfare of the american people are threatened and industry is severely handicapped in the effort to attain production of commodities necessary (1) to the ecoic welfare of the united stites. and (2) to insure the success of such program as may be adopted for aiding in the ecoic recovery of europe. and whereas te committee on interstate and foreign commerce of the house has been conducting a study of this problem. and. in its preliminary report to the house on january 26. 1948. stated that the existing and threatened situation "is  so grave that exports should be stopped completely until it can be determined whether further exports are damaging to the ecoy of this country": therefore be it resolved. etc.. that during the period of 15 days beginning with the day after the date of the enactment of this joint resolution. and withstanding commitments heretofore made. it shall be unlawful to export petroleum or petroleum products from the united states to any foreign country. sec. 2. whoever violates the provisions of the first section of this joint resolution shall. upon conviction. be punished by a fine of  more than $10.000 or by imprisonment for  more than 2 years. or by both such fine and imprisonment. sec. 3. as used in this joint resolution the term "united states" includes the territories and possessions of the united states.
. on yesterday i placed in the record. on page 1097. a tabulation showing the revised export quota for petroleum products for the first quarter of 1948. i have  completed a computation of the differences between that quota and the quota annced in january. which i shall insert at this point in the record for the information of the members of the house. revised first quarter. 1948. country quotas of petroleum products in barrels: kerosene annced annced reducjan. 16 feb. 4 tion australia -------------- 70. 000 : 0.000 20. 000 belgium ---------------- 8.000 8.000 e british honduras ....... 2.000 2. 000 e china --------------- 1]0. 000 85. 000 25. 000 costa rica ------------- 3.500 3. 500 e denmark --------------- 5. 000 0 5. 000 el salvador ------------ 1.500 1.500  eire ------------------ 5.000 0 5. 000 guatemala ------------- 2.000 2.000 e honduras -------------- 2.000 2.000 e new zealand ....------ -£0. 000 20. 000 e way ---------------- 7.000 7. 000 e panama. republic of..- 7.000 7.000 e philippines ------------ 70. 000 60.000 10. 000 portugal --------------- 40. 000 30. 000 10. 000 sweden ---------------- 50. 000 50. 000 e united kingdom ------ 130. 000 00.000 50. 000 british west africa .... 25. 000 25. 000 e switzerland ------------ 10. 000 10. 000 e french west africa --- 10.000 50. 000 e total ---------... 578. 000 453.000 125. 000 reserve ----------- --- 322.000 149.000 173.000 grand total - t--- coo. 000 602. 000 298. 000 result: reduction in varying percentages in exports to 7 countries. reduction in exports to 13 countries. overall reduction accomplished by drawing from reserve an amount which is 58 percent of total purported reduction of exports. gas oil and distillate fuel oil annced annced reducjan. 16 feb. 4 0tion australia ------------- 100.000 100.000 e. belgium -------------- 175. 000 175 000 e british honduras _ 3.000 3.000 e china ----------------- 100.000 100.000 e costa rica ------------- 10.000 10. 000 e denmark -------------- 120. 000 120. 000 e el salvador ------------ 3.500 3.500 e france ---------------3 00000 £00. 000 e mexico ---------------1 00. 000 75. 000 25. 000 new zealand ----- ----- 35.000 35.000 e panama. republic ol.. 10. 000 0 10. 000 philippines ------------ 160.000 135. 000 25. 000 portugal --------------- 10.000 10.000 e sweden ----------------2 50. 00 250. 000 e united kingdom - 1----- 1. 200.000 1. 000. 000 200. 000 netherlands ------------ 0.000 60.000 e iceland ---------------- 40. 000 0 40. 000 british west africa... 20. 000 20.000 e switzerland ----------- to. ooo to. 000 e total ----------- 2.746.000 2.446.00 200.000 reserve -------------- 453. 500 353. 500 100. 000 grand total ---- 3. 200. 000 2. s00.000 500.000 result: reduction in varying percentages in exports to 5 countries. reduction in exports to 14 countries. overall reduction accomplished by drawing from reserve item an amount which is 20 percent of total purported reduction of exports. residual fuel oil an- an- renced nced duejan. 16 feb. 4 tion australia ----------------10. 000 25. 000 25. 000 belgium ---------------- 100.000 70. 000 30.000 costa rica ------------- 20.000 20.000 e cuba ------------------- 200. 000 200.000 e denmark --------------- 70. 00 60. 000 10.000 el salvador ------------ 40. 000 40. 000 e guatemala ----------- 55.000 55. 000 e alexico ----------------- 400. 000 250. 000 150. 000 new zealand ----------- 70. 000 ----------- 70.000 panama republic ...... 25. 000 25. 000 e portugal ................ 19. 000 19. 000 e sweden ----------------- 100.000 60.000 40.000 united kingdom ....... 300.000 -----.---- 300.000 british vest africa ----- 10). 000 10. 000 e french west africa .... 1.5.000 15.000 e total ------------ 1.474.000 849.1000 025.1)00 reserve --------------- 326. 000 151.000 175. 000 grand total ...... 1.800.000 1.000.0100 800.000 result: reduction in varying percentages in exports to seven countries. reduction in exports to eight countries. overall reduction accomplished by drawing from reserve item an amount which is 24 percent of total purported reduction of exports. i submit that several conclusions are clear: first. this action is  in compliance with the unanimous recommendations of the house committee on interstate and foreign commerce (a) of december 19. 1947. that "the export control authority granted by section 6 of public law 703. seventy. sixth congress. as amended. should be exercised to place such prohibitions or curtailments on the exportation of fuel oil and other petroleum products for such period of time as may be necessary to alleviate such shortages." or (b) of january 26. 1948. when the committee recommended "the immediate cessation of the exportation cf all petroleum products." stating: it appears that the situation is  so grave that exports should be stopped completely until it can be determined whether further exports are damaging to the ecoy of this country. second. the anncement of the department of commerce of the revision on the aftern of january 30. 1948. emphasized that it was a reduction of 18.5 percent. in terms of the withdrawal from reserves and the limited number of countries affected. i submit that this is an unfortunate statement. it certainly appears that the effort to reduce exports was a scattered. piecemeal one. third. it is difficult. and i find it impossible to reconcile the position of the department of commerce through its authorized representatives in a period so short as between monday and friday of last week. on monday hon. william c. foster. under secretary of commerce. testified before the house interstate and foreign commerce committee in opposition to any form of embargo on the export of petroleum and petroleum products. he said: the reason i have taken here the attitude that i have is that i am still fearful that the action contemplated is that proposed legislation will lead to more trouble than a solution of the problem. yet on friday aftern the department of commerce annced the revision. which i have analyzed. and you will e several startling facts. first. the export program to japan and the ryukyu islands was cut back from 2.470.000 barrels to 100.000 barrels. second. as to kerosene. exports to china are cut back 25.000 barrels. or 22 percent. to portugal. 10.000 barrels. or 25 percent. to the united kingdom. 50.000 barrels. or 38 percent. and to denmark and eire. 5.000 barrels. respectively. or 100 percent. third. as to gas oil and distillate fuel oil. exports to mexico are cut back 25.000 barrels. or 25 percent. to the philippines. 25.000 barrels. or 15 percent. to the united kingdom. 200.000 barrels. or 16 percent. and to panama and iceland. 10.000 and 40.000 barrels. respectively. or 100 percent. fourth. as to residual fuel oil. exports to australia are cut back 25.000 barrels. or 50 percent. to belgium. 30.000 barrels. or 30 percent. to denmark. 10.000 barrels. or 14 percent. mexico. 150.000 barrels. or 37 percent. sweden. 40.000 barrels. or 40 percent. and new zealand and the united kingdom. 70.000 and 300.000 barrels. respectively. or 100 percent. what possible result can be drawn from those conclusions but that the argument that we must  restrict these exports in any way is absurd. surely the allocations which have  been touched should be reviewed immediately. personally i am forced to the conclusion that the record as to the use of these control powers since the first of the year demonstrates beyond any reasonable doubt that congress has the grave responsibility of legislating at once in this field. i am convinced that it can and will give proper weight to all the evidence as to possible effects elsewhere against kn effects in this country. someone must actand before it is too late. i urge that we accept that responsibility .
. on saturday aftern i received a telegram signed by david bruce. assistant secretary of commerce. it contained 501 words. but boiled down. it said. " we wont do anything about the export program." this morning i received a wire from a supplier in pittsfield. mass.. saying that he will get more oil for the remainder of the month after february 18. he said the conditions after february 18 will be serious and he must make plans to meet the situation . he then asks. "advise us what you can do to divert fuel oil to us." this morning secretary krug was before the house committee on interstate and foreign commerce and discussed this inability to cut these exports further. i do  k whether they need kerosene or residual oil in pittsfield. at any rate. it adds up to 107h barrels of some type of fuel. oil to take them through this month. it appears that our government has licensed and probably the exporters have sent 1.262 barrels of kerosene to tahiti. that our government has licensed the export of 7.500 barrels of gas. oil. and distillate fuel to the fiji islands. mr. krug intimated that this was because they made copra. and copra helps to make oleomargarine. which will probably be of some interest to my friends from the midwest. i suggest there is altogether too much confusion. perhaps some of us could enlist the sympathy of the governments of the fiji islands and tahiti so that they will make further requests until spring. in any event. we would receive colder a reception than the one given to us by our own government.
s conservation order. i have  yet been able to obtain all the facts but there is  the slightest doubt but that the federal government. because of lack of foresight. good judgment and common sense. in some quarters. has wasted.egh fuel oil throughout this nation this winter to have actually been responsible for many of the reported shortages. as i have said repeatedly. i believe we would be acting wisely by appropriating sufficient funds to force every government agency to convert to coal. but. at the very least. i submit we should take this one simple step to stop these agencies in their tracks for fiscal 1949 in carrying out any conversion or new construction plans. i want to bring up to date briefly what has happened over the week end as far as this anncement of thursday aftern is concerned. of a reduction of 599.000 barrels of petroleum products for the first quarter. as i said then. it is quite obvious that this was hing but a mathematical reduction of onehalf the amount. if regard is paid to the odd amount of 36 barrels. from what the several countries reported to us as the result of secretary marshalls cable that they could and would give up gladly for the balance of this quartet. it is completely inadequate. one has attempted to explain it for the obvious reason that it can be explained. the department was derelict in its clear duty to the american people in  acting fully to protect their comfort. their safety. and their welfare. that dereliction becomes more serious with the passage of each hour and with the sailing of each tanker loaded with any of this vitally needed fuel destined for use in countries which offered the other 599.000 barrels to us through replies to secretary marshalls cable of february 6. i will have more. much more. to report when i can see the minutes of that meeting of the review committee. i was promised a copy friday to reach me tomorrow. but it is unfortunate in the extreme that. with this 3day holiday when about the only people working here are members of congress and their staffs. the office of international trade would  grant the reasonable request of at least a weekend embargo. i placed in the appendix of the record of february 20. at page a1005. the text of the press release from the office of international trade in the department of commerce with reference to the anncement of the third reduction in 34 days of country export quotas for the first quarter of petroleum and petroleum products. in making an analysis of the country quotas in comparison with the previous anncments several facts stand out. each fact establishes beyond the shadow of a doubt the inconsistent. illogical handling of these export controls. each demonstrates the reliance upon theories as a basis for decision. each adds to the overwhelming mass of evidence that the program can be explained. the departments of commerce and state have stubbornly opposed any kind of an embargo on shipments overseas of petroleum and petroleum products and their representatives have insisted that such an embargo would wreck the ecoics of friendly nations dependent upon us for these exports. fact  1. on february 10 the office of international trade stated: in order further to ensure that petroleum products in critically short supply are shipped from the area of greatest shortage in the united states. the department of commerce has prohibited the use of its petroleum export licenses to clear shipments from eastcoast ports. the office of international trade annced today. * * * this ruling is effective immediately. and will be in force until march 31. oit officials said. if the critical shortages continue. it may be necessary to extend the restriction beyond that date. it was annced. but the press release also stated: shipments from gulf and west coast ports are  affected. fact  2. although the door was left open to shipment of petroleum and petroleum products from the gulf and west coasts. by the allocations annced on that date. 100 percent embargoes were placed on any shipment from this country to denmark and eire so far as kerosene is concerned. to panama and iceland so far as gas oil and distillate fuel oil is concerned. and to new zealand and the united kingdom so far as residual fuel oil is concerned. the analysis of this latest anncement of last thursday shows that three more 100 percent embargoes have been added. of any shipment of kerosene to australia and honduras and of any residual fuel oil to australia. fact  3. in the fact of these nine 100percent embargoes. the office of international trade had issued between january 1 and february 11 export licenses covering the shipment of 4.500 barrels of kerosene to denmark and 5.225 barrels of gas oil and distillate fuel oil to iceland. to which any shipments of those types were prohibited. fact  4. although these licenses can be used to authorize the exports covered from either the gulf or west coast. the office of international trade has stubbornly refused to order the same kind of effective embargo on the shipment of these oils as is in effect on the east coast to march 31. even though requested to do so by 9 senators and 75 representatives for the limited period of 48 hours until we could be certain that the program was  draining fuel oils in excess of the revised quotas. fact  5. the requests for a temporary embargo were made on the morning of february 17 and were first denied that aftern. on the previous day the esso manchester and the british fidelity left corpus christi with approximately 160.000 barrels of gasoline for england and on february 21 the esso cadillac was loading 75.000 barrels of gasoline for a voyage to the united kingdom. i do  k at this moment whether this was aviation motor fuel or other motor fuel. but. if it was aviation motor fuel. it must be considered in the light of the quota of that type of gasoline of 120.000 barrels. of the issuance of licenses up to february 11 to export only 56.000 barrels of that type and of the fact that there are only two gulf coast ports. beyond that i am informed that the comanche is scheduled for loading some type of petroleum or petroleum products in the gulf coast this month for delivery to the united kingdom in march. this tanker is listed as being owned by the angloamerican oil co.. ltd.. and as having a capacity of 72.120 barrels. the robert f. hand. owned by the same company. with a capacity of 140.740 barrels is scheduled to load at beaumont next friday for delivery in the united kingdom march 19. all this information is as readily available to the office of international trade as to myself. i submit it should be assembled at once and weighed in terms of existing quotas. licenses. and scheduled shipments before denying finally the requests of these members of congress for this form of sensible review of conditions.
. since the majority leader has annced that. if a rule is granted. this resolution may be called next week. i think it might be helpful to the members if i report on the text of the resolution and the committee amendments and discuss briefly some of the reasons why i believe this is meritorious legislation which should be enacted promptly. as amended. the title of the resolution would be "to prohibit temporarily the exportation of petroleum and petroleum products." the text follows: whereas there are current and anticipated shortages in the united states of petroleum and petroleum products essential to satisfy fuel needs. and whereas. while such shortages continue. the health. safety. and welfare of the american people are threatened and industry is severely handicapped in the effort to attain production of commodities necessary (1) to the ecoic welfare of the united states. and (2) to insure the success of such program as may be adopted for aiding in the ecoic recovery of europe. and whereas the committee on interstate and foreign commerce of the house has been condlicting a study of this problem. and. in its preliminary report to the house on january 26. 1948. stated that the existing and threatened situation is  so grave that exports should be stopped completely until it can be determined whether further exports are damaging to the ecoy of this country": therefore be it resolved etc.. that during the period of 30 days beginning with the day after the date of the enactment of this joint resolution. and withstanding commitments heretofore made. it shall be unlawful to export petroleum or petroleum products from the united states to any foreign country. sec. 2. whoever violates the provisions of the first section of this joint resolution shall. upon conviction. be punished by a -fine of  more than $10.000 or by imprisonment for  more than 2 years. or by both such fine and imprisonment. sec. 3. as used in this joint resolution the term "united states" includes the territories and possessions of the united states. the committee amendments tothe text will be in the first section. where the words "petroleum or petroleum products from the. united states to any foreign country" would be stricken and the following would be inserted in lieu thereof: kerosene. gas. oil. and distillate fuel oil. or residual fuel oil. from the east coast or gulf coast of the united states to any foreign country. except that(1) exports of any such product necessary for use by the armed services of the united states may be made. and (2) this joint resolution shall  require reduction of exports so as to reduce the imports into the dominion of canada from the united states below the amounts conforming with the voluntary importreduction program heretofore undertaken by canadian authorities and canadian industry. these amendments would restrict the embargo to what are kn as heating oils. would confine the embargo to shipments from the east coast. -where such an embargo is  in effect under a departmental order. and from the gulf coast. would exempt exports necessary for use by the armed services and would  affect the present voluntary reduction with our canadian friends. i doubt if anyone will question the wisdom of these amendments although there may be some doubt as to the extent of the exemption of exports for the use of the armed services. so far as they are needed by our armed services or for legitimate uses in occupation areas. such uses are imperative. but. in the light of the lack of sound screening of requests for use in occupation areas. some objections might be made to a flat exemption.. however. these uses have been sharply restricted in the recent revisions. although they first were submitted as absolute minimum needs. the reductions below those alleged minimuris have been so substantial as to lead to a reasonable belief that a realistic minimum has  been established. it is obvious that upon the passage of this resolution there would be an effective embargo on all shipments of kerosene. gas oil. and distillate fuel oil. or residual fuel oil from east and gulf coast ports in this country for a period of 30 days. with the. exceptions ed. the clear intent and the sol6 objective of the resolution is to divert to domestic use these critically needed fuel oils so that american homes. industries. churches. hospitals. schools. transportation systems. and other users of heating oils will be guaranteed. so .far as humanly possible. against any further shortages during the balance of the heating season. some opposition has been expressed on the theory that the situation would straighten itself out and that. in fact. there is further difficulty  with the coming of spring. these opponents overlook the facts. although much has been accomplished in the way of diversion of oils through previously annced revisions in the export program and through conservation measures practiced by individuals in these areas. we are still suffering from abmally low temperatures and are being buffeted by record sfalls. over this last week end. parts of new england had to dig out from a fall of between 9 to 12 more inches of s. this was accompanied by freezing temperatures. a total of 85.5 inches has fallen on the boston area to date. only the winter of 187374 brought more s to that area. in other parts of massachusetts. all time records have been established with sfalls of more than 131 inches. while i wish we could be as optimistic as some of the opponents of this resolution are. we have to face the facts. we k that our depleted stocks of heating oils are running out. we k that. unless we can secure effective action immediately. we will be in trouble. we can longer remain patient with the continued refusal of our department of commerce to recognize these facts and help us. so far as we are concerned. every hour counts. and we certainly do  mean all this effort to be an idle gesture. it is the only course open to us and we believe it will be effective. in that connection. we have the testimony of many able men connected with the oil industry who have stated that such an embargo would result in the diversion of the heating oils to our areas. so that there will be doubt about the facts. let me quote from a news article appearing in the new york journal of commerce today:
 carter is the establishment of a special commissioner on human -rights. similar to the one on refugees. or the state departments coordinator for human rights and humanitarian affairs. i ask unanimous consent to print in the record. a background article from the baltimore sun and several other recent articles. including one describing how vulnerable uganda was to the fuel embargo last july.
. i am grateful to the senator from vermont. as i said when i began. venezuelas exports to the united states are valued at half a billion dollars. and customarily she depends upon the united states. every time she cuts her sales to the united states. she must necessarily. as the senator from vermont has so properly said. reduce her purchasing from the united states. this is but aher illustration of the fact that quotas are  measures which are conducive either to our national ecoic interest or to our leadership of the free world or to the actual ecoics of our trade and the stimulation of activity in our own country. especially when we take these artificially restrictive and  legitimately restricted measures against imports. we must solve our import problems by domestic means rather than by penalizing the consumer and penalizing our best customers throughout the world. i find in this residual fuel oil problem a very clear. sharp illustration of all the thorny difficulties we get into when we establish quotas and other protective devices as against the kind of imports which are  related to dumping and other methods which are unfair trade or unfair competition. and do  endeavor to deal with our problems. including some national investigation. if need be. on a domestic basis. i am pleased to be able to support the position of the distinguished senator from rhode island.
 for increasing duties or dencing provisions of reciprocal trade agreements. by substituting for the present standard of "serious injury to a domestic industry" one of preventing "substantial injury to american workers. farmers. miners. or producers producing like or competitive articles or impairment of the national security." this bill definitely adopts protectionist standards of judgment. jeopardizes existing trade agreements. and imperils the whole foreign policy position of the united states. this bill. in addition. would provide for a quota on imports of crude petroleum and all products derived therefrom eqpivalent to 10 percent of the domestic demand for all petroleum oils in the preceding year. within this overall quota. residual fuel oil imports could  exceed 5 percent of the domestic demand for residual fuel oil in the united states during the preceding year. the quota for residual fuel oil would cut back imports to only onethird of recent imports and would particularly affect the new england area. which depends on such imports for its power. quotas under these conditions on imports of these products would be a violation of existing trade agreement commitments and would seriously affect our security interests in western hemisphere oil. this bill would provide for increased duties on lead and zinc. and would violate existing trade agreement commitments on both these commodities. furthermore. it would probably lead to wide price fluctuations to the detriment of stability in the domestic industry. the bill makes important modifications in the application of section 22 of the agriculture adjustment act. in the provisions for antidumping duties. rules regarding tariffs to offset disparities in domestic and foreign costs of production and in the conditions for imposing countervailing duties. all designed to increase protectionism in respect of our foreign trade. the issue in this bill is of tremendous importance to the security of our country. it is clear that the soviet union and its satellites are undertaking a great trade drive on the free world. dangling offers of vast trade with communist china and other parts of the soviet bloc before the industrial nations of western europe. all facing straightened ecoic circumstances and high defense budgets. under these conditions it is vital that we be the leaders in rationalizing barriers to trade and  in raising them and extending every opportunity to integrate the trade of the free world to meet this new russian challenge and for the fundamental ecoic improvement and strengthening of the free world. this bill raises new protectionist barriers and would signal the ascendancy of a new protectionist policy in the united states. all inimical to our objectives in the free world. for example. in one case like venezuela with a mutual trade of $1 billion with the united states. that trade would receive a mortal blow through the residual oil quota set up in this bill. this bill is  just aher tariff bill or ecoic bill. but it presents a great foreign policy issue upon which the congress should speak decisively by turning the bill down.
. i rise today to protest the inclusion of residual fuel oils for home heating systems in the order issued yesterday restricting imports of petroleum and petroleum products. the executive order 3279 of march 10. annced in todays federal register. providing for import restrictions on petroleum and petroleum products. has grave implications for americans whose livelihood depends upon the export of commodities to nations who earn dollars by sending residual oil and related petroleum products to these shores. chief among the nations affected are canada and venezuela who are among the best customers for united states products. restrictions on the import of residual oils which are used as fuel for home heating systems can seriously raise heating costs to homeowners and tenants. particularly in new york and other thern industrial statesit will be a real test for the sellers of these fuels. even today. as i speak here. and while washington is enjoying the first tastes of spring weather. heavy winter storms have struck in new york and elsewhere in the nation. i hope the sellers will show selfdiscipline in this matter. the cost of living index has been maintained at a fairly constant level since last summer. this holding the line against inflation of the dollar has deep meaning  only to the national ecoy but to the individual wage earner faced with satisfying his ecoic needs with a limited income. in the interests of holding this line i last week urged that residual fuel oils be excluded from any restrictions imposed on the import of crude oil and related products. this is also a very serious matter to all americans who are engaged in the export industries. let us remember that .10 americans work in the export industries for every one american working in the import industries. last year import quotas were imposed upon lead and zinc. affecting the trade of nations as widely scattered as canada. australia. peru. and mexico. the oil import quota order has been the second time trade restrictions have affected canada and mexico. previously affected by u.s. lead and zinc restrictions. in restricting a foreign nations exports to the united states we are also tending to limit that nations ability to import american goods. andit must also be kept in mindsuch a restrictive policy does  strengthen the ecoies of just those countries whose ecoies we wish to strengthen as our allies in the ecoic war which is so important a part of the cold war. the new york times of this morning includes an editorial on this question which points out. in referring to the oil import proclamation. that "to many abroad this will look like still aher calculated act of ecoic warfare by the united states against its friends. an act they will interpret as again repudiating our frequent protestations of desire for the freest possible flow of international trade. it is an unhappy precedent which has been set." the editorial is appended hereto:
. last friday. when i spoke in the senate on trade matters. it was agreed that the distinguished senator from wyoming would have the opportunity to address himself to my remarks in the record and that i. in turn. would have the opportunity to address myself to his remarks. i should  like to respond to the remarks made by senator hansen on august 21 and appearing at page 29675 of the record. on the subject of oil import quotas and meat import quotas.
. yesterday in a speech entitled "the trade bill: invitation to national disaster." before the commerce and industry association in new york. i commented that "the bill is the most significantand potentially dangerouspiece of foreign affairs legislation of recent years." i am mindful that secretary stans has urged that the rhetoric be cooled and that "inflammatory terms such as trade war and retaliation tend to oversimplify very complex problems. and todays problems can be approached effectively from these antagonistic positions." yet. 1 days reading of the press again is egh to convince me that the liberal trade foes of the bill are only doing their manifest duty. i refer to the article entitled "soviet intelligence role in latin america rises." written by benjamin welles and published in yesterdays new york times. the article states: that the soviet union has reorganized and modernized its intelligence network in the western hemisphere in the last decade toward the goal of diminishing. and possibly replacing. united states influence. to do this. the american specialists say: the soviet union is moving on a wide variety of fronts to capitalize on latin american discontent with protectionist cxvi- 2543--part 30 united states trade policies and with what many latin americans believe to be washingtons neglect of their problems. second. i refer to an editorial entitled "a bad neighbor policy." published in yesterdays wall street journal. the wall street journal writes: while the total u.s. trade has weakened in recent years. this countrys exports to latin american nations have continued to far exceed imports from the area. in a number of latin american countries. moreover. major exports to the united states are the two top targets of the pending measure: textiles and shoes. if the move is ridiculous from an ecoic standpoint. its political aspects are downright appalling. the protectionst gambit can hardly help but fuel the growing antlu.s. sentiment in latin america. a development that. among other things. poses dangers to u.s. security. last. but  least. i would like to return to yesterdays new york times and a story by anthony lewis. filed from brussels. mr. lewis writes: that the irony is one way of measuring the unwitting selfdestructive effects that are likely if the mills bill or something like it become law. the united states will be doing the most effective single thing it could possibly do to build up a rival ecoic power in the worldand to make it more antagonistic. i ask unanimous consent that these articles and editorial be printed in the record.
 i do  think it creates any problems in view of the fact that the passthrough is  provided for by law and the director of price of the allocation policy of the pea informs us there is administrating difficulty in allocating the tariff to gasoline only or in insuring refiners pass on the tariff to our gasoline production only. we have checked on that and that is their answer.
