s power to inate and the senates power to give or withhold its consent are equally important in this process. i firmly believe it is appropriate for the senate. when it is deliberating a judicial ination as pivotal as this one. to base its decision on the inees judicial philosophy. this has  been an easy decision. as anyone who listened to his testimony will ackledge. judge bork is a constitutional thinker of the highest order. his kledge of the constitution. and of constitutional jurisprudence. is as broad and impressive as we have seen in any judicial branch inee since i was first elected to the senate in 1976. in terms of sheer intelligence. he is probably one of most outstanding inees of the last few decades. in addition to his evident brilliance as a student of the constitution. judgebork has demonstrated his competence on the bench. he has served ably for the last 5 years as a judge on the circuit court of appeals for the district of columbia. in his current position he has respected supreme court precedents. and has often written decisions that i would categorize as "mainstream." i supported judge borks ination for the d.c. circuit court and his record there leads me to conclude that i made the right decision. judge borks ination to the supreme court is. in my view. an entirely new question. as our ultimate tribunal. possessing literally the last word on constitutional questions. the supreme court is the place in our system of government where the constitution must be viewed and interpreted in the clearest possible light. the decisions of the supreme court ring down for decades and generations in history. therefore. the bork decision should be. for every senator. a decision on whether judge borks view of the constitution is consistent with the traditions of jurisprudence that began with the founders who constituted the supreme court and that continues today with the current supreme court. i have decided. after much deliberation. that judge borks views of the constitution are at odds with what i believe to be the fundamentals of american constitutional history and traditions. at the end of july. shortly after the anncement of the bork ination. i wrote a letter to senator biden. chairman of the judiciary committee. outlining my initial concerns about judge bork. and requesting that those concerns be raised in the hearings. the issues that i outlined in that letter were among the central concerns of the hearings. therefore. i have had ample opportunity to consider the implications of the bork ination in the areas that most concern me. my letter to the judiciary committee focused on three areas: first. the right to privacy. and particularly the roe versus wade decision of 1973. second. the constitutions protection of the rights of miities and women. and third. the first amendments protection of freedom of speech. basically. i was troubled by judge borks strict adherence to the philosophy of judicial restraint. or original intent. it is my belief that the constitution is a wondrous document.  just for the rights and freedoms it specifically grants. but also for its striking latitude. that is. the language of the constitution is explicit egh to give definite outlines to the way society and government function. but broad egh that the courts can address difficultand often inequitablesituations  specifically covered in its language. in my view. judge borks rigid. literal reading of the constitution denies the broadnessthe elasticity. if you willthat is one of that documents greatest strengths. using a complex excessively legalistic rationale. he rejects extension of important rights that i believe are protected by the constitution. if  literally written therein 200 years ago. for example. i would point to judge borks written expressions of disapproval of broad judicial protection for freedom of speech and the right to privacy. in my view. judicial protection in these areas is  only appropriate under the constitution. but necessary. although in the intervening years and in his testimony judge bork modified some of the views expressed in his writings. for example in the indiana law journal article of 1971. i remain deeply troubled by those views. furthermore. i could  overlook judge borks previously stated views on civil rights issues. he once expressed his clear opposition to such laws as the 1963 public accommodations act and the 1964 civil rights act. although over the years he distanced himself from these positions. his testimony left me with serious. lingering concerns that as a supreme court justice he might apply his narrow view of the constitution to constrict current legal protections of civil rights. throughout my career. beginning with the introduction of a fair housing bill when i served in the state legislature. i have strongly believed in the constitutionality of civil rights laws. as i see it. the significant possibility that judge bork would come down on the other side of this question is too important to overlook. in summary. i believe that two of our countrys most significant judicial traditions. the protection of individual rights and of miity rights. are potentially endangered by the bork ination. judge bork is a man of great integrity and intelligence. during this ination process his character has been maligned most unfairly. and the partisan debate on his ination has obscured the real issues. the issues on which my decision is based. while i regret that the ination has been transformed into an ideological sideshow. this development has  altered what. in my mind. is the essential question: should a man with judge borks view of the constitution be approved to serve as a supreme court justice. my answer is that he should .
. in brief. when confronted with difficult choices relating to proper courses of conduct for himself and others. general haig consistently has chosen the lowest road. that is  a choosing which is representative of most americans. general haig has shownshowsa contempt for both congress and the individual rights ahd liberties of all americans as enunciated in the constitution of the united states. that. also. is  an attribute one seeks in a secretary of state. i will  delay these proceedings by extended debate. i hope the cause of justice and peace throughout the world will  be delayed by this man. who has failed so many tests of character in the past. finally. it is  the past that bothers me as much as a past. in haigs case. being rewarded by present action.
if the senator from th carolina does  support the amendment of the senator from connecticut. then it would be very difficult to ascertain as to when a vote will take place on the weicker amendment. it still is my hope. as i have indicated. that i can get the support of the republican leadership and of the president of the united states on my amendment. very frankly. that is going to put me into a quandary at that stage of the game as to whether or  helms. as amended by weicker. is something that is going to receive my support. it probably would. i do  like the language that is contained therein. on the other hand. i also realize that good government operates best when a compromise is made. i feel that at least those rights would be protected. the policy might change. i am willing to take my lumps or my victories on matters of policy. it is the constitution that bothers me. i would hope that such support might be forthcoming. in which case we would vote this aftern. in the absence of any such support from the parties i have mentioned. either the senator from th carolina. the majority leader. or the president of the united states. i really would say that the vote would come at the same time that the physical stamina of the senator from connecticut gives out. then we will have the matter for a vote. i can say when that will be. i have been kn to tire quickly on a tennis court in the matter of a half hour. i have been kn to go for 6 hours on a tennis court. i just do  k what is going to happen. i also do  k what the schedule of the majority leader is. who is the one. of course. who determines all of our schedules.
i think similar measures. insofar as utilizing the appropriations process. have occurred. i think we saw it in the abortion debate. but this is the second time that there is actual opposition to an amendment reaffirming the ability of the justice department and the courts to enforce the constitution of the united states. that is unique.
 i am  throwing the gauntlet down. the senator ks this. he ks he is my dear friend and is one of the most fair. most kledgeable. and most able senators in this body. he is a man of deep religious convictions. gauntlet is being thrown down. because you are articulating merely what is being said out there on the street. you are right. the whole nation is saying: "why cant they pray." i want to make that clear right . they can pray. you are absolutely accurate in articulating the principal question on the lips of many american people. i hear it repeated time and time again-"well. 80 percent of the nation wants prayer."  we get into a different field. eighty percent of the nation wants it. my answer to that is very simple: eighty percent of the nation supported racial discrimination at one time. 80 percent of the nation went ahead and discriminated against the retarded and disabled at one time. . shall we have followed 80 percent of the nation in what it felt on either of those issues. . let me turn the coin over. eighty percent of the nation wants abortion as defined by the supreme court decision. yet. are we  trying to contest that. eighty percent of the nation wants era. the equal rights amendment. are we following that popular opinion. let us understand that the job of a u.s. senator and the president of the united states is a matter of leadership and  a matter of finding out where the percentages lie. in this case. 80 percent of the nationaccording to however the poll is phrased. it would  make any difference to meis wrong. as it was wrong when it discriminated in any form whatsoever. so i am hoping that we do have a complete debate on the floor. the distinguished senator from iowa has well articulated a point of view that is clearly the prevalent point of view in this country. $i am  arguing that point with him at all. and i want to use this by way of an occasion to speak to some comments that have been made lately. because i happen to k of the admirable manner in which the senator from iowa conducts himself. in the course of this debate i have heard references to those of us who espouse my viewpoint as being clearly more committed to the constitution of. the soviet union than we are to the united states.
 i am  throwing the gauntlet down. the senator ks this. he ks he is my dear friend and is one of the most fair. most kledgeable. and most able senators in this body. he is a man of deep religious convictions. gauntlet is being thrown down. because you are articulating merely what is being said out there on the street. you are right. the whole nation is saying: "why cant they pray." i want to make that clear right . they can pray. you are absolutely accurate in articulating the principal question on the lips of many american people. i hear it repeated time and time again-"well. 80 percent of the nation wants prayer."  we get into a different field. eighty percent of the nation wants it. my answer to that is very simple: eighty percent of the nation supported racial discrimination at one time. 80 percent of the nation went ahead and discriminated against the retarded and disabled at one time. . shall we have followed 80 percent of the nation in what it felt on either of those issues. . let me turn the coin over. eighty percent of the nation wants abortion as defined by the supreme court decision. yet. are we  trying to contest that. eighty percent of the nation wants era. the equal rights amendment. are we following that popular opinion. let us understand that the job of a u.s. senator and the president of the united states is a matter of leadership and  a matter of finding out where the percentages lie. in this case. 80 percent of the nationaccording to however the poll is phrased. it would  make any difference to meis wrong. as it was wrong when it discriminated in any form whatsoever. so i am hoping that we do have a complete debate on the floor. the distinguished senator from iowa has well articulated a point of view that is clearly the prevalent point of view in this country. $i am  arguing that point with him at all. and i want to use this by way of an occasion to speak to some comments that have been made lately. because i happen to k of the admirable manner in which the senator from iowa conducts himself. in the course of this debate i have heard references to those of us who espouse my viewpoint as being clearly more committed to the constitution of. the soviet union than we are to the united states.
. i also ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record in connection with my remarks the support. evidenced by a telegram from richard w. hogue. chairman of the committee on federal legislation of .the association of the bar of the city of new york. of the resolution to which i have referred. senate joint resolution 169. which i have sponsored together with other senators. i am grateful for this support from so distinguished a bar association as my own in new york city. which has constantly led the fight for the integrity of the government and for giving justice to all people in their individual capacity. and which has shown a rare skill in balancing individual rights under our constitution as against our national security. always with both coming out protected and safeguarded. as we are well able to do. under the dominion of law. if we put our minds to it.
a great majority of taxpayers might be satisfied  to pay their taxes. but that can satisfy the united states. even if those people would be satisfied. how can citizens be said to have all their liberties when they have been denied their rights as citizens of the united states. it is difficult for us to see how the argument of the senator from south carolina can persist. when he speaks. on the one hand. about depriving americans of their liberty while. on the other hand. americans are being denied liberties which the supreme court says the constitution gives them.
. i rise only because it is the miity leadef who has spoken. and that is important. the pointb he makes are critical and vital to the country and the party. they receive luster when they are uttered within that context. so i should like to address two questions to him. i am a son of immigrant parents. just as he is. i am in this place by the bounty of our country. but there are two considerations to which he has addressed himself. one is the tyranny of the miity. the other is the constitution and the rights of the people withstanding the tyranny of the miity. in 1954. the supreme court ruled in the desegregation case. after 10 years. we passed a civil rights act that was appreciated and really meant anything. many people feel that for the suppression of millions of black people in that 10 years we are  paying in the dreadful situation which we find in our cities. that is one example of tyranny which is possible from a miity. we all respect the senator from illis. it is true that civil rights bills were written in his office. that does  necessarily make them right. i love and respect the miity leader. but even he. with all his powers. with all his authority. and with all his dignity. has right to write a civil rights bill for the people of the united states.
let me make this statement. suppose a group of americans were properly charged with the crime of geide. that is. with being party to an intent to eliminate by the means stated here. which are deathly means. a whole ethnic or religious group. and suppose that because of the particular provisions of state homicide laws or the laws of assault. and so forth. some of the people could slip out from under. would any american with a germ of fairness and belief in the constitution want such a person to slip out. and should  someone have the power to try him in this case. and in this case it would be a u.s. court.
i shall finish then by pointing this out. also. the reason why senator brooke. i and others. have undertaken the busing battle was in order to abate what might have inundated ourselves and the court and has been also attributable to the fact that this we believe might tend to inhibit the same results in the th. the west. and the middle west which were obtained in the south by setting this frame of law. and i emphasize that. it was  some doctrinaire concept but the proven record which we believe is vindicated. beyond that. . i might say. because i have sat in on a number of meetings lately about the busing question. of course. we are dealing with a miity of the country. at the most we are dealing with 20 percent of the population in terms of the miities and their children who are affected by segregated situations which are contrary to the constitution. i might emphasize. again. that i have never pleaded for anything but the legal action that is the law against de jure segregation. and i have always tri.ed to avoid any implication of social expression in this: you can have dinner with anyone you please. you can have visits with anyone you like. or anything tantamount to that. the question was only in the eyes of. the law. as we are dealing with the miity of the country. naturally the majority is irked and irritated. and that is where our duty comes in. we must enforce the constitution because that is essentially what we are sent to the senate for and even those people. who are often aned and irritated. in their calmer moments realize that is what this country is all about. the fact they send us here means that it is we who have to be solicitous of these rights. and we can be stormtossed by the irritations and frustrations which may affect the majority in these particular instances. but our duty is to see that the miity. too. has the rights of the individual which preserves them for all. i thank our colleague
