. i rise to join my colleagues in an expression of dismay over newly revealed incidents of blatant persecution of jews in the soviet union. in recent months the soviet union has expanded its persecution of soviet jewry by demanding what are. in effect. "ransoms" of between $5.000 and $37.000 for each jew with a higher education desiring to go to israel. these incredibly fantastic fees represent aher escalation in the continual harassment of russian jews desiring to leave the soviet union. in the past. jews applying to emigrate have lost their jobs. been forced to enlist in the soviet army. and have even been imprisoned. this latest form of persecution dashes the hopes of the soviet jews who have been systematically cut off from their heritage. their synagogues have been closed. religious articles and even matzos have been taken from them. they are deprived of a cultural life. and  they are being denied an opportunity to be reunited with their families and to emigrate to their homeland. the soviet union has tried to justify these exorbitant fees by claiming that the fees were instituted to prevent a "brain drain." but this claim is clearly fallacious. educated jews who apply to emigrate are either demoted or fired. and thus their talents are clearly  being used. already the effects of this harsh policy can be seen. these excessive fees far exceed the earnings of most of those who seek to emigrate. in the first 6 days that this law was in effect. beginning in august. at least 65 soviet jewish families. ready to emigrate. were stranded. six jewish families were stopped at the moscow airport and are  totally stranded. without either money or a home. the soviet unions actions must  go on unheeded.  only must all nations of the world who concern themselves with human justice and rights for individuals cry out at this policy of discrimination. but in addition. both nations and individuals must consider concrete actions. this may well be the time for the u.s. congress to explore our trade policy with the soviet union. and perhaps to reevaluate it in terms of these unreasonable harassments and ransom demands. should they continue. as a member of congress and a concerned citizen i must thoroughly condemn this unconscionable treatment of russian jewry. and only hope that on september 19 the supreme soviet will vote  to continue this reprehensible practice of massive exit fees. but rather will vote to uphold what should be the right of all humans. regardless of their religion. to live their life where they want and in a manner consistent with their beliefs.
