. this is a useful thing. this is an effort on our part to get a little closer to the heart of the problem that is disturbing  only the young people of our country. but almost all the thinking people in the country. it has been saidi think trulythat much of our difficulty comes from the great advance in techogy which has made our society so fragile.  just a handful of people can disrupt communications. can cut off water supplies. can interfere with police and fire protection. and with the supply of foodthe list is endless. it does  take much to upset this terribly complex society in which we have come to live. and i think one result is that it is longer tolerable for even small miities to be treated with injustice. or what they think is injustice. in the old days. a small miity could be treated that way. and society as a whole would  be in any danger. because that miity was too weak to do anything about it. that is  true any longer. maybe they can do any more than pull society down. but they can do that. so we have to listen to the consciences of these young people. they are a miity. yes. indeed. they are. but they are a miity which has something to contribute. just as all the other miities have. i am  talking about permissiveness. i am  talking about organized efforts to overthrow authority for the sake of causing revolution. or for any other completely unworthy or irrelevant objective. what i am talking about is this: when there are people on these campuses.  by the handful. but in the great majority. who are opposed to our conduct of our foreign policy. who are opposed to corruption in government at the municipal level--and at other levels. toowho are opposed to racism. who are opposed to discrimination of all sorts. who believe we have  dealt adequately with questions of poverty and millions of other things. we had better listen to them and try to do something about those issues. and  just drag our feet or make token advances toward their solution. when we do  really want to do anything about them.
