. today the senate is voting on h.r. 1828. the syria accountability act. i would like to explain to my colleagues why i will be voting against this legislation. as chairman of the foreign relations committees near east subcommittee. i have come to appreciate the great importance of u.s. leadership in working to restart the middle east peace process. in recent visits to the regionthe west bank. jordan. iraq. turkey and afghanistani heard a uniform chorus in these arab and muslim nations that active united states involvement was urgently needed to halt the continuing violence between israel and the palestinians. i regret that this administration has  actively responded to these pleas for peace. i have also learned that our disinterest in becoming involved in middle east peace has contributed to the sharply declining image of the united states in the arab/muslim world. indeed. according to the recently released report of the advisory group on public diplomacy for the arab and muslim world-"the djerejian report"-hostility toward america has reached shocking levels. and the bottom has fallen out of arab and muslim support for the united states. the report also documents that "large majorities in the arab and muslim world view united states policy through the prism of the arabisraeli conflict." 1 am troubled by these developments and fear that the administrations emerging hard line toward syria. in addition to passage of this bill. will only add fuel to this fire. it is true that the syrian government can do more to work with the united states in combating terrorism in the region. and the administration has made some very clear requests of the syrian government. but if syria does  respond to our requests. most. if  all. of the sanctions contemplated by the syrian accountability act can already be imposed by the administration. this means that a bill that is widely perceived as a crackdown against syria has little substantive effect. indeed. patrick clawson of csis testified to our committee last week. "some might say that the act is largely symbolic. but do  underestimate the importance of symbols." and that concerns me. because the symbol of the united states as cracking down on an arab nation ultimately harms our interests in many very important parts of the world. so in reality i would describe this bill as a "loselose" for the united states: were getting little additional muscles against syria while further antagonizing the arab world. i urge my colleagues to vote " on this bill.
. today the senate is voting on h.r. 1828. the syria accountability act. i would like to explain to my colleagues why i will be voting against this legislation. as chairman of the foreign relations committees near east subcommittee. i have come to appreciate the great importance of u.s. leadership in working to restart the middle east peace process. in recent visits to the regionthe west bank. jordan. iraq. turkey and afghanistani heard a uniform chorus in these arab and muslim nations that active united states involvement was urgently needed to halt the continuing violence between israel and the palestinians. i regret that this administration has  actively responded to these pleas for peace. i have also learned that our disinterest in becoming involved in middle east peace has contributed to the sharply declining image of the united states in the arab/muslim world. indeed. according to the recently released report of the advisory group on public diplomacy for the arab and muslim world-"the djerejian report"-hostility toward america has reached shocking levels. and the bottom has fallen out of arab and muslim support for the united states. the report also documents that "large majorities in the arab and muslim world view united states policy through the prism of the arabisraeli conflict." 1 am troubled by these developments and fear that the administrations emerging hard line toward syria. in addition to passage of this bill. will only add fuel to this fire. it is true that the syrian government can do more to work with the united states in combating terrorism in the region. and the administration has made some very clear requests of the syrian government. but if syria does  respond to our requests. most. if  all. of the sanctions contemplated by the syrian accountability act can already be imposed by the administration. this means that a bill that is widely perceived as a crackdown against syria has little substantive effect. indeed. patrick clawson of csis testified to our committee last week. "some might say that the act is largely symbolic. but do  underestimate the importance of symbols." and that concerns me. because the symbol of the united states as cracking down on an arab nation ultimately harms our interests in many very important parts of the world. so in reality i would describe this bill as a "loselose" for the united states: were getting little additional muscles against syria while further antagonizing the arab world. i urge my colleagues to vote " on this bill.
. i salute the americans of lithuanian descent who are celebrating the 39th anniversary of the adoption of the declaration of independence at vilnius. as well as the good and brave people of lithuania. existing under the heel of the oppressor. in spite of persecution and indescribable humiliation. they have had the fortitude and courage to carry on a resistance against their oppressors. it has become a tradition with lithuanians to fight for liberty and freedom and for the belief in the church of their ancestors. it is indeed commendable that they still hold high the torch of their tradition and look to the day when the march of communism is ended. in view of the splendid record and generous contribution to humanity given by this small country. we earnestly hope for her quick recovery. until then we must exert ourselves to keep the light of freedom burning brightly until it illuminates the whole world. on that day a new proclamation of liberty will bring joy to the hearts of the people of lithuania and all other freedomloving nations of the earth. again. i salute these valiant people.
. the world is saddened today by the passing of cardinal stritch and his death is being mourned by all christendom. spiritual leaders. such as he. have helped to bring about a spiritual reawakening. and a resurgence and reavowed belief in god. in these serious times. we need and demand a consciousness of our spiritual wellbeing and our soul. dedication to and belief in god is our own salvation. but also is one of the best fortresses against communism and communist teachings which threaten the world and our democratic way of life. cardinal stritch of chicago. u. s. a.. will be remembered as the 15th cardinal of the roman curia. the official resident in rome who aided pope pius xii in the government of the church. but to peoples of all faiths he will be long remembered for his fight for world peace. the underprivileged. his devotion and interest in the welfare of young people. and his avid concern for the problems of labor. his life of 70 years is a testimonial to his love of mankind and his god. as he goes to meet his maker. he brings with him a long list of outstanding and commendable marks of achievement. the greatest of which was his appointment by pope plus xii on march 1. 1958. proprefect of the congregation for the propagation of the faith. he was the first american ever appointed to this high position in the vatican.
. i would like to join in congratulating our colleague from illis for the outstanding contribution he has made in bringing to our attention the occasion of the 171st anniversary of the polish constitution. i am pleased also to join with him and my other colleagues of the house in the continuing efforts on behalf of the aspirations of captive peoples everywhere. the people of poland k the value of freedom for they have enjoyed it and suffered its loss. from nazi dictatorship to communist tyrannythe polish people have grown in their love of god and love of freedom and independence. the strains of the "polonais" stir the hearts of  only the poles but of all freedomloving men. america remembers the contribution of kosciusko in its fight for freedom and we look forward to the day when the shackles of godless communism will be cast from the brave people of poland. on this occasion i think it proper to remind ourselves of the contribution to our own democracy by the polish people. and i take this opportunity to extend to the people of poland and our own polishamerican citizens my best wishes on the commemoration of the birth of true freedom in poland may 3. 1791.
. i wish the record to show that i am awaiting a reply from the committee on rules and administration to a kindly and courteous and proper letter which i sent to the committee some time ago. asking the members of the rules committee whether the report which i inserted in the record was correct. that report stated that my resolution had been indefinitely postponed. if that is true. and if the committee does  see fit to make it possible for me to present to the committee the testimony of responsible leaders of various organizations. i shall start at an early date to conduct my own committee hearings on the floor of the senate. day by day. and week by week. if necessary. so that all these witnesses may have an opportunity. at least through my lips. to testify as to their position on this question. including one church leader after aher. if senators think the senate is going to adjourn without this issue being made a matter of full record. so far as responsible people in our country who protest the action of the senate is concerned. they are very much mistaken. i care  how long the senate needs to stay in session in order that i make this record. the right to petition the government for redress is a very precious constitutional right in this country. what the senior senator from oregon is asking the committee on rules and administration to do is to extend the right to people to petition the rules committee through a hearing. to present their opposition to a policy which was officially established by the senate when the new conference room was opened with a considerable amount of fanfare on april 2 of this year. this is one matter that the senate is  going to sweep under the rug so far as the senior senator from oregon is concerned. i intend to make a record on the issue. the large number of peopleand they are increasing week by weekwho are concerned have a right to be heard on the subject. the senate has the duty to give them a hearing. in case the rules committee does  wish to reverse the action that it initiated when it  only proceeded officially to provide for the serving of hard liquor at official senate functions in its public rooms. but apparently also. so i understand. authorized senators to get permission to use this conference room and other rooms for affairs of their own sponsorship. at which. in effect. these rooms. for the period that they are used. are turned into bars. those of us who do  share the point of view of such senate public policy have a duty to our constituents to make the record. i propose to make that record. i would much prefer to have this question handled by means of an official hearing of the rules committee. preceded. if possible. by a meeting of the rules committee in executive session. if it wants such a meeting with the senior senator from oregon. so far as i am concerned. this is a matter of procedural policy in regard to which the american people are entitled to have full public disclosure made. we are  going to do that if we deny a great number of our people the right to be heardpeople who have the privilege and the right to be heard in protest of a policy of the senate that they consider to be entirely unjustifiable.
. i am today introducing a bill which will permit the association of universalist women and the alliance of unitarian women to merge. this action is made necessary by the previous merger of the unitarian and universalist churches. to avoid the necessity of obtaining judicial interpretations of past and present gifts and legacies. the two groups will consolidate and the property  owned by the two groups will. after merger. become the property of the new organization. congressional participation in this procedure is required because the universalist group is incorporated in the district of columbia. the unitarian group is incorporated in massachusetts. and similar action by the state legislature has already been initiated.
. every human being who has sipped from the cup of idealism of pope john. and each one of us who has been inspired by hope and faith in a divine being. is a better human being because pope john lived. many memorials and tributes. and many monuments of one kind or aher will be erected to his memory. in my opinion. the monument that will last will be the record of his living. his ideals. and his spiritual faith. i feel that the best tribute i can pay to this great human being is to express my belief that he was one of the most christlike men of our time.
about 10 minutes. . here and . in referring to the biblical quotation employed by the distinguished senator from oregon who preceded me. i would remark it seems to me that in this particular instance we have one sinner who has  repented. any american who would view the fourth of july as a day set apart by the worlds greatest exploiters to glorify their rise to power and who. when queried concerning this implied denunciation of his country. refuses to repudiate it. is unfit for public office. and yet. as i have read the transcript of the hearings. and as i have listened to the presentation of the case against mr. olds. these are the inevitable conclusions which i am forced to reach regarding him.
. yesterday. february 24. marked the 37th anniversary of estonian independence day. in joining my fellow americans of estonian descent in commemoration of this eworthy event. i fervently hope that the reestablishment of a free estonia is near. the forcible annexation of estonia and her baltic neighbors is a tragic reminder of the totalitarian imperialism of the soviets. although freedom in estonia has fallen victim to the treacherous communist tyranny. the gallant estonian people remain firm in resisting their oppressors. let us. on this anniversary. reaffirm our determination never to recognize the soviet annexation of the baltic nations. and express our fervent hope and prayer for their speedy liberation.
. we are all concerned about the tense situation in cyprus. in support of senate resolution 229. of which i am a cosponsor. i wish to call the attention of the congress to a memorandum of the ethnarchy of cyprus. the ethnarchy consists of the elected hierarchy of the church and a group of lay leaders of the greek community chosen as advisers. the memorandum sets forth the ethnarchys position on the developments which have led to the present crisis in cyprus. i ask unanimous consent that the memorandum be printed at this point in the record.
first. i wish to pay tribute to the distinguished senior senator from alabama. during all the time i have been a member of the senatealmost 12 yearsi have been a member of the committee of which he is  the chairman. he was a member of that committee before i was. i k of the great work he has done in this particular field. and i k how devoted he is to it. i do  believe that any tribute that might be paid to him would be too high. however. i wish to say a word regarding the dread disease of cancer. i do  believe any one of us. or any family in the united states. has been immune to the effect. in some manner. of this awful disease. my own family has been hit several times. we all k what it is. we all dread it. so today i wish to pay tribute to the group in the galleries who have overcome the terrible scourge which has afflicted the american people. yesterday i had the ho and pleasure of having my picture taken with a delegation from new york. i wish to say to those in the galleries. in this particular group. that by coming here they are encouraging us. because we are also devoted to the great crusade which has as its objective the cure of cancer. it gives us courage to have you here today. in the capacity in which you are present. we are a part of the crusade in which you are engaged. we shall continue the fight. and. god helping all of usand i am sure he willone of these days we shall conquer cancer.
 and publisher of the new york times. those of us on the herald tribune. who had the privilege of working with him. knew him as a man of humility. a man who had a deep concern for people. and a man whose warmth of heart was evident for all to see. orvil dryfoos served in the great tradition of the new york times. in the tradition of adolph ochs. he worked in close association with arthur sulzberger. he recognized the vital importance of the news and the importance of fair and full coverage. he extended the coverage of the new york times and of its european edition. he started publication of its western edition. above all. he recognized that the foundation stone of our democracy rests on an enlightened and fully informed public opinion. i would like to offer my condolences to his family and to the members of the new york times. in the extension of my remarks i include the eloquent. simple. and moving eulogy of james reston. chief of the washington bureau of the new york times which was delivered yesterday morning at the funeral services of orvil dryfoos at temple emanuel. [from the new york (n.y.) times. may 28. text or eulogy of orvm e. dryfoos
. i had the privilege of attending the national interreligious convocation on civil rights. along with my colleagues from the congress including senator javits and senator keating. tuesday night at georgetown university. it was a moving occasion which highlighted the moral and religious imperatives urging the passage of the civil rights bill. it was a convocation of thousands of americans demonstrating again that the religious faiths of our country are fully enlisted in and committed to equality of opportunity  for all americans. i was particularly happy that many religious leaders from westchester county could be present at this great gathering. the reverend dr. eugene carson blake. stated clerk of the united presbyterian church in the united states of america and chairman of the commission on religion and race of the national council of churches. in the final address of the evening. eloquently expressed the clear morality of the civil rights bill. dr. blake said: our unity is threatened. and our will is weakened because we forget the firm basis of morality upon which the cause is based. we who profess faith in the god who spoke through the prophets of israel. and we who believe that that same god was revealed in jesus christ are united that. by creation. all mankind is one family. the prophet. malachi. speaks for us all as he asks. "have we  all one father. has  one god created us. why then are we faithless to one aher." the crisis of the nation is more severe than the crisis in our churches and synagogues. how can any of us ministers. priests. or rabbis stand safely eloquent behind our pulpits. reflecting the moral confusions of american culture in our tactful balanced prose when god is thundering at his people. calling them to repent and to be saved. never in the life of the nation have the churches and synagogues through their best leadership been so fully united intellectually on any moral issue confronting the american people. but such intellectual unity will reveal the weakness and irrelevance of our pulpits unless from them we speak and in the world we act to persuade our people to commit themselves to the new patterns of justice and freedom that must be established. let me then remind you  of the unargued. and. i believe. unarguable morality upon which civil rights legislation and civil rights action is based. in our several traditions. the judeochristian convictions about god and man are one in asserting: 1. that god made man in his image. wlich is to say that man is  merely an animal of a complicated sort but is. in essence. a spiritual being. his worth is  in his vigor. weight. or cleverness. but in his origin. because man. every man. is created by god. he must be treated. despite his sin. as a potential son of god. by covenant between god and man. 2. right relations among men is based upon a personal concern for each one which we believe is  only our concern but that of god himself. 3. the most important ethical considerations. and perhaps the only ones. are directly related to the effect of our actions upon the life and wellbeing of other men--all other men.
i congratulate the gentleman from new york on his important statement. i think it needs stating. the lack of religious freedom for jews in the soviet union is tragic and highly repugnant to all those who believe freedom of worship is a fundamental human right. persecution of jews in the soviet union is shocking and a clear violation of the u.n. charter and the universal declaration of human rights which are morally binding on all member states of the united nations. indeed. since 1917 hebrew bible has been published in the soviet union and the study of hebrew has been outlawed. i hope our government will make strong. prompt. and continuing representations to moscow about the concern of the congress and the american people on this serious matter.
. i rise in support of the bill. h.r. 2362. from the colloquies that have occurred here and the testimony before the committee the need is very clear. the bill. in my judgment. is correctly directed at one of our most serious problems of 5 million educationally deprived children of the united states. at the correlation between educational underachievement and poverty. it is directed toward a serious lack of library facilities and textbooks. it is directed at the need for more and better research. it is directed toward strengthening. as appropriate and constitutional. state agencies which in my judgment should be strengthened. it would be my hope that this bill and the principles included in it. wherein they are constitutional. will have broad. bipartisan support. i believe that the bill does comprehend some reasonable and relatively clear language with regard to local control over education. particularly in title i. with regard to the formula. doubt it could be improved. but i have  heard a better one. i might say that child in these united states should be abandoned because of the accident of his residence. county. so far as we k. is completely free of poverty. further. i believe that the committee has added some sections that are consistent with the separation of church and state. which is a clear and fundamental principle. therefore i hope the house will support this bill. which will do much to help deprived children in poorincome districts of the united states. america must face this serious problem and important opportunity here and . this is our future and our children are our futures best hope.
. is  the fundamental question here the total separation of church and state. and would  even voluntary prayer involve the state in the sponsoring of a religious exercise by its providing classroom space and designating a period during official school hours for prayer.
. today we mark the 6th day of pope paul iis visit to his native country. poland. i am hoed to join my distinguished colleagues. senators muskie and domenici. in ing the importance of this monumental occasion. just think of the significance of this event. the first pole to occupy the 2.000yearold papal throne has returned to the cheers of millions of his proud countrymen. the first pope from an iron curtain country has  become the first pope to visit a communist land. but most importantly. this visitand the courageous and forceful words of the pope himselfsignify an open challenge from the roman catholic church to the government of poland. that challenge is very simple. but hardly frivolous: grant the people of poland more than just token religious freedom. at the same time. pope john paul ii has daringly used the occasion to urge all communist countries to cease the suppression of  only religious rights. but human rights. as well. in boldly expressing his message to what he called all "captive nations." the pope has aroused anew the pride of  only polishamericans such as senator muskie in pope john paul ii. but all peaceloving people as well. we have all been moved by the popes emotional visits to the sites of former german concentration camps. by the massive outpouring of love and adoration by the polish people. and by the pontiffs sense of informality. mirth. and genuine warmth. never has any one personality clashed more sharply with the grinm. face of the communist government. one which has tried futilely to limit public access to this remarkable man. this visit has been a celebration for  just the poles. but for us all. and one could have carried the message of freedom more eloquently. amidst the joy of that celebration. as an editorial in the providence (r.i.) journal said: whatever else transpires during this tour. the pope has already enunciated the desire of the people to be free. under whatever governmental system they live. and the overwhelmingly favorable reaction of the polish people to his message has to manlt those in political power over them heed it carefully. too. i k i speak for all of rhode island. which has the highest proportion of catholics in the nation. in declaring my personal pride in the actions of pope john paul ii.0
i think the senator is absolutely right in his question. i mean this is ridiculous. what were the courts for. why are we setting them up. why are we paying them. why do we have a system of review when a court is merely to declare the law. annce it. and that is it. it can do anything about it. injunctive powers. powers of review. hing. it is an absurdity. and that. of course. as the distinguished senior senator from new york has mentioned. is way beyondit was never inthe dreams of those distinguished citizens present in philadelphia in 1788 and 1789. of course. we have quoted extensively here from the federalist papers of alexander hamilton and he makes that very. very clear. i iced. and the distinguished senator was here earlier. perhaps. when somebody charged someone as being against school prayer. wonderful. what a charge. send the person away in shame. he is against prayer. well. that is  the subject in this matter at all. and the senator from new york has mentioned that many times. the subject has hing to do with prayer. it has to do with the powers of the courts. if we were to have a discussion on prayer. if we want to bring forward a constitutional amendment that would permit prayer in schools under the constitution. then that would be a discussion on school prayer. are you for it or against it. compulsory prayer or some substitute or some alternative. that is where you get to discussing the gist of prayer or prayer. but  under that measure that is before us today and that has been bedeviling us for these past 2 weeks. so the senator is absolutely right in his suggestion that it deals with the capacity of a court to fulfill a function indispensable to the judicial power of the united states.
. in the face of such monumental tragedies. remembrance is a duty we must bear. for we can do hing more. to fail to do so would be to shirk the elemental responsibility we have to future generations. let us therefore pause. reflect and remember. lest we once again prove the unalterable truth of george santayanas dire warning: those who do  remember the past are condemned to repeat it. exiarr i sunvivoas remember armenian massacre (by karen lee ziner) providencein 1915. the kurdish soldiers led everyone away from the village and killed themher grandparents. parents. sisters and brothers. aunts and uncles. for sarah leylegian. the memories of those atrocities have  paled after 70 years. "some they took in the church and poured gasoline on them and burned them. alive. some they killed with guns. and some by big knivesthey thought the bullets were to good touse on them says leylegian. 78. of providence. yesterday. hundreds gathered at the site of the armenian martyrs memorial at the th burial ground in providence to mark the 70th anniversary of the massacre of 1.5million armenians by the turkish government. that massqcre occurred at a time when the turks. regarding the armenians as a dangerous foreign element and a threat. decided to deport the whole armenian population. which had lived as a nation under turkish rule for 600 years. many either died or were killed en route. one speaker yesterday. ramon zorabedian of the armenian martyrs memorial committee. demanded turkish responsibility for the armenian geide. "its high time our government showed its power. we should tell the turks what to do. rather than have our geide denied." he said. "we demand from our officials in washington to bring our problem to the forefront. we want our day in court." said zorabedian. mayor joseph r. paolijr. read a proclamation marking yesterday in memory of the 1.5 million "murdered by the turkish ottoman empire." recognizing the 10.000 armenians in rhode island. he told those gathered. "you are part of the fabric of our community. we remember the torture. the massacres . . . and condemn the atrocities committed 70 years ago." the rev. jean zarifian. pastor of the armenian euphrates evangelical church in providence. spoke of the indomitable spirit that has kept survivors going. "seventy years has  dimmed the intensity of our bitterness or the depth of our grief." said zarifian. but while april is "a month of passion" and the month marking armenian geide. "it is also the month of easter and resurrection." he said. "seven decades ago. our people were also rejected. scorned. tortured. crucified. but like the legendary phoenix. we soared from the ashes. . . . those who nailed us to the cross could  kill us." he said. before yesterdays ceremony. leylegian stood quietly in the dry grass behind the martyrs memorial and spoke of the massacre that decimated her entire family. "we were seven children under one roof. out of seven children. i am the only one alive. they were all killed . .. and i was left all by myself on the street." she was eight years old then. after that. she spent several years in an orphanage in turkey. until the turkish government "ordered all armenians out of the country." from there she went to leba and lived in aher orphanage until "a distant relative in the united states sponsored me" to come here. "the more we talk about it. the more it hurts. to you. it seems like a story. to me. i k what if is." she said. aher survivor. john - bargamian. .79. wept yesterday as he told his story in broken english. "in turkey. they had an order. to kill all the males (armenians). there was two turks in our village. one was like a wolf. the other was like an angel. they were two brothers." he said. "one killed over two hundred and fifty. he tied them and hed cut them piece by piece." but the good brother saved his life. bargamian said. "by hiding me and my brother under the bed of his sick son." they escaped with their mother and eventually were reunited with their father in the united states. "my mother was a servant over there. she had to learn to pray in turkish. so when the soldiers came she could pray and theyd think she was turkish." "she had to have it exactly right. or else theyd kill you." he said.
. in the face of such monumental tragedies. remembrance is a duty we must bear. for we can do hing more. to fail to do so would be to shirk the elemental responsibility we have to future generations. let us therefore pause. reflect and remember. lest we once again prove the unalterable truth of george santayanas dire warning: those who do  remember the past are condemned to repeat it. exiarr i sunvivoas remember armenian massacre (by karen lee ziner) providencein 1915. the kurdish soldiers led everyone away from the village and killed themher grandparents. parents. sisters and brothers. aunts and uncles. for sarah leylegian. the memories of those atrocities have  paled after 70 years. "some they took in the church and poured gasoline on them and burned them. alive. some they killed with guns. and some by big knivesthey thought the bullets were to good touse on them says leylegian. 78. of providence. yesterday. hundreds gathered at the site of the armenian martyrs memorial at the th burial ground in providence to mark the 70th anniversary of the massacre of 1.5million armenians by the turkish government. that massqcre occurred at a time when the turks. regarding the armenians as a dangerous foreign element and a threat. decided to deport the whole armenian population. which had lived as a nation under turkish rule for 600 years. many either died or were killed en route. one speaker yesterday. ramon zorabedian of the armenian martyrs memorial committee. demanded turkish responsibility for the armenian geide. "its high time our government showed its power. we should tell the turks what to do. rather than have our geide denied." he said. "we demand from our officials in washington to bring our problem to the forefront. we want our day in court." said zorabedian. mayor joseph r. paolijr. read a proclamation marking yesterday in memory of the 1.5 million "murdered by the turkish ottoman empire." recognizing the 10.000 armenians in rhode island. he told those gathered. "you are part of the fabric of our community. we remember the torture. the massacres . . . and condemn the atrocities committed 70 years ago." the rev. jean zarifian. pastor of the armenian euphrates evangelical church in providence. spoke of the indomitable spirit that has kept survivors going. "seventy years has  dimmed the intensity of our bitterness or the depth of our grief." said zarifian. but while april is "a month of passion" and the month marking armenian geide. "it is also the month of easter and resurrection." he said. "seven decades ago. our people were also rejected. scorned. tortured. crucified. but like the legendary phoenix. we soared from the ashes. . . . those who nailed us to the cross could  kill us." he said. before yesterdays ceremony. leylegian stood quietly in the dry grass behind the martyrs memorial and spoke of the massacre that decimated her entire family. "we were seven children under one roof. out of seven children. i am the only one alive. they were all killed . .. and i was left all by myself on the street." she was eight years old then. after that. she spent several years in an orphanage in turkey. until the turkish government "ordered all armenians out of the country." from there she went to leba and lived in aher orphanage until "a distant relative in the united states sponsored me" to come here. "the more we talk about it. the more it hurts. to you. it seems like a story. to me. i k what if is." she said. aher survivor. john - bargamian. .79. wept yesterday as he told his story in broken english. "in turkey. they had an order. to kill all the males (armenians). there was two turks in our village. one was like a wolf. the other was like an angel. they were two brothers." he said. "one killed over two hundred and fifty. he tied them and hed cut them piece by piece." but the good brother saved his life. bargamian said. "by hiding me and my brother under the bed of his sick son." they escaped with their mother and eventually were reunited with their father in the united states. "my mother was a servant over there. she had to learn to pray in turkish. so when the soldiers came she could pray and theyd think she was turkish." "she had to have it exactly right. or else theyd kill you." he said.
. i join with my colleague and friend senator pel= in welcoming rabbi gutterman this morning. as has been mentioned. he is really a leader in our state in all community activities. of course. amongst religious leaders. he is one of our top ones and helps in inestimable ways. i. would like to make a comment about the personal characteristics of rabbi gutterman. in his prayer. he mentioned service above self. i think the life of les gutterman emphasizes that. service above self. i just think we are blessed in our state to have such a leader in our community. a leader in his religion and a leader in the community as a whole. we welcome rabbi gutterman as he hos us by his presence.
. i also ask unanimous consent that two additional letters. one from the american bar association in support of this amendment. and aher from the united states catholic conference. in which the monsig daniel f. hoye. general secretary.. writes the following: the united states catholic conference (uscc) strongly endorses7 the initiative of senators -chafeei pell. moynihan. heinz. cranston. stafford. mikulski. gore. matsunaga. melcher. and kennedy. which addresses the threat of family separation that may otherwise result from the legalization provisions of the immigration reform and control act of 1986 (irca). * i hope that you will be able to support this fundamental humanitarian principle.
. i wish to say how proud we are to welcome here father papademetriotr. who gave the invocation. he is from st. matthews greek orthodox church. he is somebody whom i have kn over the years. and we are very proud he gave the invocation. i think all who followed that invocation clearly. with the praise for our great nation. k how lucky we are. how blessed we are in this country. these are sentiments we all share. and i want to congratulate father papademetriou. i thank the senator from arizona very much.
. i ask unanimous consent that when the senate completes its business today it stand in recess until the hour of 9:30 a.m. on friday. may 12. 1995. that following the prayer the journal of proceedings be deemed approved to date. the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use later in the day. and the senate then immediately resume consideration of s. 534 the solid waste disposal act.
under the proposal of the distinguished senator from maine. if in our state we were nervous about the constitutionality of dealing with the church directly without this r9ligious corporation. then under the senators amendment. the state could ensure itself it was on safe ground by requiring that there be such a corporation. and then when the state dealt with it. they would k that they were absolutely safe from lawsuits and all the problems that possibly could arise.
i could well see the situation where in our state. for example. the attorney general might advise the gover. "dont get into these kind of contracts." as it exists . you have option but to deal with the church because the bill. as i understand it is written. forbids these profit corporations from being set up.
and myself. i introduced this bill on january 16. 1975. since that date 20 senators have joined as cosponsors. they are: senators dick clark of iowa. jacob k. javits of new york. richard stone of florida. mike mansfield of montana. patrick leahy of vermont. william d. hathaway of maine. gary hart of colorado. william proxmire of wisconsin. alan cranston of california. hugh scott of pennsylvania. adlai stevenson of illis. bob packwood of oregon. frank e. moss of utah. frank church of idaho. lawton chiles of florida. quentin burdick of th dakota. mark hatfield of oregon. james abourezk of south dakota. pete domenici of new mexico. and charles mcc. mathias of maryland. s. 181 would require full public disclosure of personal financial interests by the president. the vice president. members of congress. and the judiciary. in addition. federal employees earning more than $25.000 a year and all candidates for federal offices would be covered by this bill. and this does bring up two questions. i have been asked how many persons s. 181 would affect and would it  bring forth aher of those great showers of paperso much so that it might be necessary to build a building in which to store disclosure records. by rough calculations s. 181if it were to become public law todaywould affect more than 100.000 persons.  about the great shower of paper that these people might generate in disclosing their personal finances. i can only say that i think most of us can give a full accounting in less than two typed pages. i k that i can. while i am  expert in modern storage techniques. what i k about newspaper filing suggests to me that our financial records can be put on microfilm and made readily available without causing a great space crisis. our yearly records would be modest in comparison to a years editions of the new york times which the library of congress tells me occupies only about half of a drawer in a microfilm storage cabinet. in fact. the library of congress has the times back to 1851 on microfilm and this fills only 50 storage drawers. while i am glad to be able to answer these questions. because they indicate to me that we are seriously thinking about disclosure legislation. i want to return for a few minutes to the theory behind the bill. as i have said before disclosure is preventive. if a person ks that his finances will be subjected to public scrutiny. he will "stop and think" before taking an action that involves a possible conflict of public and private interests. second. disclosure is a way of getting the facts on the table so that the press and the public can make their own judgments. third. disclosure will strengthen the election process by providing citizens with the additional facts that they need to more fully assess candidatesboth newcomers and incumbents. we have been close to getting this legislation passed before. in fact. a bill very similar to s. 181 was approved by the senate during the 93d congress. i hope that we will see s. 181 passed and signed into law in the 94th congress.
. i think it is very clear that when we were confronted with a crisis as far as price was concerned. we had two alternatives. price is determined by both supply and demand. we did  have the guts to do anything about demand. we did  do anything to cut down on consumption. the solution that both the republicans and the democrats wanted was to raise prices. increasing tariffs was originally a democratic policy. we are unwilling to do anything about demand. but we do have a chance to go ahead and do something about supply. about getting more of the commodity on stream. if we do hing about supply. if we do hing about demand. we are stuck with the situation we have today and god ks i do  want that for me or my kids.
. this bill requests a waiver of the law which only permits for two korean children to be adopted by a family in this country. this is for a third such adoption. i have weighty statement to make. this involves the adoption of a third korean child by the brian logans. and god bless them.
. to see that in this session of congress prompt and favorable action will be taken to alleviate this persistent problem of camp accidents. early passage will mean one less summer of disability or death. because of preventable camping accidents.s by mr. church (by request):
. i wish the senators good fortune and god speed on this particular mission. indeed. king the eloquence of the distinguished senator from new york. the tenacity of the senator from texas. and the abilities of the senator from nebraska. i truly hope that they succeed where i have failed because should they do so we are all the beneficiary. and i wish them hing but the best of luck for what it is that we all together seek.
 and the congress for designating the week of may 3 through 10. jewish heritage week. the anniversaries we observe at this time of year remind us of both the tribulations and the triumphs of jewish people in this century. thirtyeight years ago..the jews of the warsaw ghetto. debilitated by starvation and disease. bravely resisted the nazi selge. just 5 years later. the state af israel came into being. through three turbulent decades. it has persisted. an oasis of democracy. a rock of stability in the midst of shifting sands. here at home. we are all cognizant of the magnificent contributions jewish americans have made to the arts and sciences. the political arena and the marketplace. jewish religion and culture have enlightened our lawn and enriched our lifestyles. this is most certainly true of my state and of the city of newington. where the temple sinai congregation is celebrating its 25th anniversary. i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate and thank the temple sinai congregation and jewish americans all over the country for calling upon their ageold and abundant heritage to help us all build a better future.41
. it is my hope that this bill can be moved right along by the full senate. i realize that it grants an opportunity to those who care to legislate on appropriations bills to do just that in a variety of controversial areas. but the fact remains that those areas. be tey prayer in school. or busing. or abortion. or whatever.. will have their day before this assembly either in terms of the authorizing bills  wending their way through the process or in the sense of any special time that might be set aside for discussion of such issues. i strongly appeal to all my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to allow the appropriations process to be conducted in a way which. in effect. has the business of the united states accomplished in a timely fashion rather than in an ad hoc why which really does  address itself to the problems of the moment. i k that my distinguished colleague and friend. senator hatfield. has expressed similar views. as has the majority leader. if indeed it becomes clear that we will  be able to accomplish the business of appropriations. then indeed i want it kn that the fault does  lie in the leadership of the subcommittee or the full committee on the miniority or the majority side. every conceivable principle that could be compromised has been made. rather the fault will lie on other heads. exsnsrr 1 hioislihts of commrrz3 recommendations
but i am  going to go ahead and pass the buck either. that is the reason why the lines are  being drawn. i realize that politically the neck of the senator from th carolina is on the line and then all of. a sudden my neck goes on the line. really. the resolution of this debate probably will  take place in this chamber today. rather. it will come when the senator from th carolina and i have to face our constituents on the record that we have established. but our constituents will be probably more fortunate than any others in the country. they will  have to find us waridering around in some fog. we are right out there and probably the best thing i can say  is thank god for the senator from th carolina that hie is  running in connecticut and thank god for me that i am  running in th carolia.
. the strength of any community is  gaged by its numbers. its wealth. or its buildings. the true wealth lies within the soul of its people. in their generosity. and their willingness to give their best for the betterment of all. this le contribution to the greater society is at the heart of the volunteer fire company. the firefighters prayer includes the lines. "i want to fill my calling and give the best in me." that is what the firefighters of the southbury volunteer firemens association has been doing for the past 50 yearslilling their calling by saving lives and property. they receive payment for the great risks they face and the long scorching hours they work. payment except the gratitude and respect of the people of southbury and. the deep pride that wells inside the firefighter himself on king that he has done his job well. on the 50th anniversary of the southbury volunteer firemens association. it is fitting that they be presented with an american flag that has flown over the u.s. capitol. it should serve as a symbol of the courage. ho. and devotion the southbury firefighters have displayedthe same courage. ho. and devotion that have made the larger community of america the great nation she is.*
the nations first catholic president. john f. kennedy. spoke out on behalf of the separation of church and state. and he spoke out very vigorously. it is wonder. because it was  until his election that the religious barriers against catholics came crumbling down at all lcvels of society. protestantism was de facto the national religion and catholics. jews. and all other faiths suffered because of it. during a campaign address in 1960. kennedy told the greater houston ministerial association: i believe in an america where the separation of church and state is absolute. * * * obviously. the president knew what words he was using. and he used them with precisionabsolute. there is hing in there that permits for qualification. exception. absolute. what we are seeing this aftern. believe me. is  absolute. it is a waffling on the first amendment of the constitution of the united states: i believe in an america where the separation of church and state is absolute. where catholic prelate would tell the president how to act. and protestant minister would tell his parishioners for whom to vote. where church or church school is granted any iublic funds for political preference. and where man is denied any public office merely because his religion differs from the president who might appoint him or the people who might elect him. when the supreme court banned official school prayers in the new york public school system in 1962. kennedy commented: we have in this case a very easy remedy and that is to pray ourselves. and i think it would be a welcome reminder to every american family that we can pray a good deal more at home. we can attend our churches with a good deal more fidelity. and we can make the true meaning of prayer more important in the lives of all our children. those are pretty strong words coming from the president. and they are as true today as when they were spoken. this is  to say that spokesmen for all the deinations in this nation have  enunciated the same thoughts. they have. most mainline churches have come out against voluntary school prayer. their objections: first. it would violate first amendment prohibitions against the establishment of religion. second. a leastcommondeinator prayer trivializes prayer. . third. religious instruction is the responsibility of the religious family and the religious community. rev. james dunn. executive director of the baptist joint committee on public affairs has state 1: "real prayer is always free. what the court has done is to protect religious liberty." father timothy healy. president of georgetown university. stated: the question is whose prayer. how do we find a formula acceptable to all. offensive to e. and  so general that it would merely echo the less inspired bits of fourth of july oratory. nathan z. dershowitz. speaking for the american jewish congress and 10 other jewish organizations. said: to a child in a classroom. part of the school routine is voluntary. it can be made so by the cruel device of telling them that they are allowed to brand themselves as pariahs by leaving the classroom. or by standing there and remaining conspicuously silent. theodore white in "the making of the president 1960." wrote as follows: there remains one last division of the past to be considered as the americans moved to consider their candidatesthe largest and most important division in american society. that between protestants and catholics. mind you. this book is "the making of the president." in 1960. america as a civilization began with religion. the first and earliest migrants from europe. those who shaped americas culture. law. tradition and ethics. were those who came from englandand they came when english civilization was in torment over the manner in which englishmen might worship christ. all through the seventeenth century. as the settlers arrived from the downs. the moors. and the villages of england. they came scarred with the bitterness and intensity of the religious wars of that era. wars less bloody and ferocious for the fact that they were fought between protestant sects. protestant against protestant. the harshness of cromwell. that son ber figure. was a reflection of the harshness with which protestants assailed each other. as well as catholics. over sect and dogma. is there anybody who needs to be reminded that this still goes on today. the conflict in thern ireland is one still between protestants and catholics. with the terrible human toll that division takes hourly. it is hard to believe. it is hard for any of us to believe. in this day and age. that such terrible mayhem is done in the name of religion. thern ireland is  a matter of history. it is a matter of our life today. that is the ultimate step. is it . this is the first step. to return to white: * * * migrants began the building of a new society in a new world and out of this bitterness they distilled. though  without a struggle. that first great landmark in americas unique civilization. that first of the creative american compromises that was to set america apart from the old world: freedom of worship. the decision that government should have right to make inquiry into the faith of its citizens and that the state should remain forever divorced from any religious establishment. never in civilization. since the earliest ziggurats and temples went up in the mudwalled villages of prehistoric mesopotamia. had there been any state that left each individual to find his way to god without the guidance of the state. in retrospect. this is probably the greatest historic decision enshrined in the american constitution. the americans of the age were  an irreligious people. and the fact that they were christian was very important. for the marks of christianity lay all across the constitution. although christianity has never been the guarantee of a democratic state anywhere in the world. democracy has ever thrived successfully for any period of time outside of christian influence. without the quality of mercy and forgiveness. there is only logic and reason to guide a state. and these guarantee freedom to any man. what the american constitution did was to accept and code a working compromise that had been reached by men and women of english descent escaped from the fratricidal wars of religion in europe and unwilling to transfer such wars to the new land. each man would worship in his own manner. and the state would limit itself to the affairs of caesar. for the protestants who created the american rtate. the very antithesis of these ideas was the code of the church of rome. which their forefathers had repudated in england over two hundred years before.  until the 1850s did the protestant civilization of america begin to include a serious proportion of catholics. and then (apart from the historic new orleans community) it was a catholicism confined to the few large cities of the eastern seaboard. where the great irish migration was beginning to arrive. and  until 1891 did the united states census historically begin to estimate. from catholic sources. the number of catholics in the american population. in that year. estimates the census. there were in america 8.277.000 catholics out of a total population of 64.361.000 in americaor 13 per cent. by 1928. the year an american catholic. alfred e. smith. first ran for president. the proportion had grown to 16 per cent (or 19.689.000 out of 120.501.000). in 1957 the united states conducted a special census of religion in america. and in that year one has the choice of two divergent sets of figures. following the old tables and accepting catholic estimates of catholic communicants. america held 34.564.000 catholics out of an estimated total population of 171.229.000 citizens. or 20 per cent. accepting instead the special census figure of 43.037.000 catholics at that time. the catholic proportion of americans amounted to 26 per cent. the huge difference between the official catholic claim and the higher estimate of the bureau of the censusa difference of 8.600.000 in the year 1957illustrates the trickiness of all figures on religion in the united states. some groupssuch as the christian scientistsrefuse to offer any estimate of their numbers at all. some protestant groups. such as the lutherans. count all members of their faith from the moment of baptism. as do the catholics. other (and most protestant) groups count their communicants only from the age of thirteen or fourteen. for some years jewish groups numbered only the male heads of household.  jewish groups estimate their numbers on the basis of established congregations (it is estimated that there are 5.400.000 jews in the united states today. the largest jewish community since the destruction of the temple). all figures on religious breakdowns in the united states. either by state or nation. are thus guesses. subject to error of up to 20 per cent. it is obvious. however. from the spread of the census figures since 1890 that the increasing percentage of catholics has come first from the great south and central european migrations of the early 1900s (italian. polish. some czech. some german catholic). and has thereafter been amplified by the catholic birth rate. dr. donald n. barrett of the university of re dame has estimated that in the years 19501959 the catholic population of the united states increased by 35.8 per cent while the general population increased by 16.6 per cent. or in other words. as he has said. "fortyone per cent of the total united states growth in 19501959 was derived from the catholic sector o the population." such a statistical development reflects. of course. a change in the composition of american life. of which american politics has been aware for generations. from the eastern seaboard all the way through to st. paul. minnesota (or omaha. nebraska) this change has for a full generation been the working problem of practicing politicians of both parties. in general. and for reasons quite apart from faith. most catholics have voted democratic. they have voted democratic because when they arrived as immigrants in the large industrial cities they found the national political machinery at the time of their arrival in the hands of republicans who distrusted big cities. catholic immigrants entered. naturally. into the party that sought and cultivated their votes. the democratic.  only did they enterwithin a period of fifty years they had come to lead and possess the democratic party in a bloc of states that stretched from new england to illis. in new york state. for example. in a recent year. of sixtytwo counties in the state. the democratic county committeemen in fiftyseven were catholic. and the book goes on to place into the statistics the role of those of the catholic faith in american politics. a role denied them by past persecution. so many of my catholic frierds just as fellow members of my protestant faith think because of their numbers they are outside this argument. who is to say that 100 yiars from  we will  be in a miity. i suggest as a protection of our religious beliefs we hold fast to the principle involved. i never believed either in my political career or before embarking on that that i would on the floor of the senate be arguing against a state religion and a state prayer. to me that is something that belonged in other nations in the future or had belonged as a matter of history to other countries. this is an abomination. it is a persecution. it is an elimination of the rights guaranteed uinder the constitution. those who argue as we do on the floor of the senate. if i may say so. are  irreligious men and women. indeed. what we are fighting for is religion. religion in all of its forms.  in the form of the senator from th carolina or indeed the senator from any other state. but in the form that is most pleasing to us as individuals.  as senators. i remember it was only a matter of a year ago when we had this issue here on the senate floor and although i am  willing to dredge up unpleasant memories. i remember very unseemly incidents that occurred between good friends in the course of debating this issue. the incident should have never taken place. all the participants being decent people. kind people. religious people. persons respecting the rights of others. but the minute the subject turns to religion. believe me. even on the senate floor the temperatures start to rise and people say things that they regret later. and that happened right here a year ago. there is end to this mischief. there is end to it. at the various levels of government. local. state. and federal. as people argue what prayer should be. what it should consist of. i hate to contemplate the passions that are going to be aroused. who is going to write the prayer. and if a prayer can be established by one session of the senate then why  aher prayer 2 years frorp  or 4 years from  or 6 years from . these are the matters of principle that are at issue in the course of this debate. i had occasion to read the upi press release that came as a result of our action yesterday. and i wish to share it with my colleagues. the title of it was "abortion." by wesley pippert. washington (upi).-in president reagans second capitol hill defeat in as many weeks. the antiabortion legislation he sought to make law was put to rest. the measure was a major goal of reagan and the new right. but liberals wednesday. following a 2month filibuster. successfully had it brushed asideat least for this year. senator jesse helms. n.c.. sponsor of the antiabortion amendment. took the floor and promised the political implications of the vote would go far beyond the capitol. waving a copy of the senate roll call recording the 4746 vote to set the measure aside. helms warned: "this is a record each senator who voted aye will have to live i ith." helms said the vote could spill over into compaigns. ing that former sens. george mcgovern. s.c.. john culver. iowa. and birch bayh. ind.. who favored the right to choose abortion. were defeated in 1980. the article goes on from there. i knew and i argued the principle of separation of powers. in other words. i argued against courtstripping as it applied to the matter of busing. and i was threatened with the same business. that "any senator who takes the position that senator weicker takes will be said to be for busing." king the negative implications that had. regardless of the fact that it was a constitutional debate that related to courtstripping. to the principle that was being established that applied to all of us.  just black children. many of my colleagues here were afraid to stand up. many did. and that is why it took so long. 10 months. before anything happened. but they were afraid of that threat. and i saw that threat come to pass in my own situation in connecticut where during the republican phase of the operation ncpac was up in connecticut saying. "senator weicker is for forced busing." do you k what i am going to hear on the basis of this argument here today. "senator weicker is against prayer." i just want it clearly stated that senator weicker is for the constitution of the united states and for the ability of every american to pray as he or she sees fit. and i am  going to have any u.s. senator or president of the united states tell us that we have to pray. and then following that what it is . we will pray. that is the issue. those who fought courtstripping. fought for an undiluted constitution. and the guarantee that the courts of this nation would be available to every american. those who fought the matter of abortion did so on the basis that this was a personal decision. did so on the basis that the law of this land is clear. that it is  to be circumvented by some legislative maneuver. and that if constitutional change is to be accomplished it must be done by the constitution. those who fight for the first amendment and religious freedom do so in defense of the constitution of the united states. the fact is that. as a result. there will be more.  less. religion in this country. what is being advocated in the form of a state prayer is less religion. it naturally restricts. prayer can contemplate all that resides within 200 million human beings. so it is by its nature restrictive. and by nature of just having to perform the act. it impinges on our freedom. i think there are some who feel the problems we have today are going to be resolved by running a group of children through a prayer ceremony. let me tell you the problems we have today are far more prevalent in the adult community than they are in the first. second. and third grades of this nation. a lot of people will say. "you fellows in the senate. you start the day with prayer. so why should  that apply to others." well. i do  have to be here to listen to the prayer. and if i do  like it. i can walk out. it is just as simple as that. some 6- or 7- or 8yearold kid is  going to do that. attendance at school is  voluntary. it is mandatory. and child is going to get up and walk out even though the prayer is offensive to his or her belief. most adults do  go through that for fear of some form of embarrassment. why cause one senator to be put in the position of being embarrassed. of feeling an outcast. of feeling queer or whatever. i usually find the person who says the least about his religion is the most religious person on the block. and the one who is going around spouting the bible and talking about good works and all the rest of it usually has something to hide. if you want an exercise that might do some good. i would  worry about ramming a pro forma prayer down the throats of a bunch of schoolchildren. i just think we ought to use our time here on the senate floor advocating that the whole nation pray for us and hope some good might come of that. the issue is whether or  this constitution of the united states is going to be around for our kids in the same form that it is or was for us. that is the reason why this can be permitted just to go the way of any old legislation. this is  legislation. legislation is written. is allowed to disappear or is canceled from the books. and philosophies change and parties change. the white house changes. numbers in the senate and house all change. but one thing that remains constant is the constitution of the united states. there seems to be a great impatience on the part of a lot of people to change it as if all of our ills can be attributed to concepts and the words of that document. i remind everybody the problem in this country today is  the constitution of the united states. the ecoy is the problem. 10.5 million people out of work is the problem. and that is what we ought to be spending our time on. but we are . we want to tinker with the one thing that works. education is the big problem. so many young people can go to college. can go to graduate school. can get an education. that is a problem. housing. too. three percent of the people in this country only 3 percent can afford to buy a house. i say that is a problem. you are  going to have that last very long before you will have some kind of political upheaval. these are problems. and these problems are dealt with by each generation and its representatives. both the problem ana the solution change. but the constitution stays. matter what goes on. that stays. and in this instance. it is the guarantee that whatever beliefs exist today and those that have yet to be proclaimed will be done so in the fullest possible freedom. let me once again just read just the most pertinent passages of madisons remonstrance against religious assessments. 2. because if religion be exempt from the authority of the society at large. still less can it be subject to that of the legislative body. the latter are but the creatures and vicegerents of the former. their jurisdiction is both derivative and limited: it is limited with regard to the coordinate departments. more necessarily is it limited with regard to the constituents. the preservation of a free government requires  merely. that the metes and bounds which separate each department of power may be invariably maintained. but more especially. that neither of them be sufferd to overleap the great. barrier which defends the rights of the people. 
i thank my distinguished colleague and good friend. the senator from montana. he is out there in the forefront. at the constitutional wall. and were it  for his efforts a long time ago the result might be quite different than it is today. and the result today is that the constitutior is as good today as it was yesterday. how long that is going to last. i do  k. everyone seems to be taking a pretty good run at it. there is only a handful out here who are protecting it. i would hope we would have even more of our colleagues stand up on these issues. let me say at the outset that i could  help but e that there was comment in the paper that possibly it might be that the record vote should be taken on the matter of school prayer so it could be used against those who are up for reelection in the sense that they are  for prayer and are somewhat lacking in their enthusiasm for religion. i use this occasion to point out it really should  have anything to do with the argument. that men who are standing up here and arguing on behalf of the constitution. more particularly the first amendment. who are arguing against the establishment of any religion are  an irreligious group. indeed. there are many of us who are of very deep faith. but it is that very fact. the fact that we believe in all prayer and all faith. we do  want a state prayer and we do  want a state religion. that is what is at issue. pure and simple. it has hing to do with being religious. it has hing to do with belief in prayer. i would hope that everyone prays mightily. i hope everyone prays his particular faith with overwhelming enthusiasm daily. but all this to be done and can be done only in a free society. as soon as the society dictates as to what is going to happen in religious terms or more specifically the words that apply to that religion. then our freedom is whittled just that much and is something a good deal less than it is at present.  and i ask that upon the conclusion of his remarks that i then be recognized.
i agree in terms of voluntary associations. in terms of courses that teach comparative religion. and so forth. it is  my understanding that this in any way is touched upon by the substance of the amendment we have before us. it is  the contention of the senator from oregon. is it. that a voluntary prayer or rather a prayer in the public schools is something that would be beneficial by its establishment as it relates to the constitution. i am finding a little difficulty. i agree with all the senator says. and i am a very dear friend of his. and i think most of the time we see exactly alike. and i agree with him as to the matter of association and discussion and total freedom in this area of religion. but really the issue before us is whether or  you are going to have a state prayer in our schools and. of course. i believe anything like that can be voluntary because merely the nature of having to attend school makes it involuntary.
. can you believe it. this nation. which had yet to build the statue of liberty. this nation which opened its arms to the suffering all over the world. that was yet to come. people were leaving the ud statesleaving it. this is 1785. ir. the 1800s and the early 1900s were the great immigrations that ha. yet to come to pass. 11. because. it will destroy that moderation and harmony which the d forbearance of our laws to intermediate with religion. has produced amongst its se eral sects. torrents of blood have been srit in the old world. by vain attempts of the secular arm to extinguish religious discord. by proscribing all difference in religious opinions. time has at length revealed the true remedy. every relaxation of narrow and rigorous policy. wherever it has been tried. has been found to assuage the disease. the american theatre has exhibited proofs. that equal and complete liberty. if it does  wholly eradicate it. sufficiently destroys its malignant influence on the health and prosperity of the state. if with the salutary effects of this system under our own eyes. we begin to contract the bonds of religious freedom. we k name that will too severely reproach our folly. at least let warning be taken at the first fruits of the threatened ination. the very appearance of the bill has transformed that. "christian forbearance. love and charity." which of late mutu. ally prevailed. into animosities and jealou. sies. which may  soon be appeased. what mischiefs may  be dreaded should this enemy to the public quiet be armed with the force of a law. then he has good advice as to the faiths themselves. he says: 12. because. the policy of the bill is adverse to the diffusion of the light of christianity. the first wish of those who enjoy this precious gift. ought to be that it may be imparted to the whole race of mankind. compare the number of those who have as yet received it with the number still remain ing under the dominion of false religious. and how small is the formeri he is saying. in other words. there is a tremendous growth opportunity out there for christianity. does the policy of the bill tend to lessen the disproportion.  it at once discourages those who are strangers to the light of (rev. elation] from coming into the region of it. and countenances. by example the nations who continue in darkness. in shutting out those who might convey it to them. instead of levelling as far as possible. every obstacle to the victorious progress of truth. the bill with an igle and unchristian timidity would circumscribe it. with a wall of defense against the encroachments of error. 13. because attempts to enforce by legal sanctions. acts obious to so great a proportion of citizens. tend to enervate the laws in general. and to slacken the bands of society. if it be difficult to execute any law which is  generally deemed necessary or salutary. what must be the case where it is deemed invalid and dangerous. and what may be the effect of so striking an example of impotency in the government. on its general authority. . madison is winding up. he has two more paragraphs left. the great conclusion is in his 15th reason. in order to make this complete. i shall read the 14th. 14. because a measure of such singular magnitude and delicacy ought  to be imposed. without the clearest evidence that it is called for by a majority of citzens. and satisfactory method is yet proposed by which the voice of the majority in this case may be determined. or its influence secured. "the people of the respective counties are indeed requested to signify their opnion respecting the adoption of the bpi to the next session of assembly." but the representation must be made equal. before the voice either of the representatives or of the counties. will be that of the people. our hope is that neither of the former will. after due consideration espouse the dangerous principle of the bill. should the event disappoint us. it will still leave us in full confidence that a fair appeal to the latter will reverse the sentence against our liberties.  he concludes. on this. i wish more of my friends in the press gallery were here. because i think it calls to mind the fact that what madison was arguing here was  just religious liberty. it was the entire first amendment. if. indeed. he was saying that you can emphasize christianity as against all other sects. and if indeed he was saying that neither can you emphasize one sect within christianity to the exclusion of all other sects. he is  going to point out that. if one of our liberties falls. what is to prevent going after all the rest of them. remember what is included in the first amendment to the constitution: congress shall make law respecting an establishment of religion. or prohibiting the free exercise thereof. or abridging the freedom of speech. or of the press. or of the right of people peaceably to assemble. and to petition the government for a redress of grievances. there is a lot in one amendment. 15. because. finally. "the equal right of every citizen to the free exercise of his religion according to the dictates of conscience. is held by the same tenure with all our other rights.if we recurred to its origin. it is equally the gift of nature if we weigh its
and that is part of the reason why 60 major religious leaders have come out against school prayer. hing was more heartening to me than. after the cloture vote yesterday. when the leaders of all religious faiths in this country gathered here in the senate to hold a press conference. they were  atheists. any more than the men who espoused this particular cause are on the senate floor. the fact is. they are as religious as we are. but it is the very beliefs in our religions that drive us to defend a total freedom for all religions in this country. these leaders are also motivated by a strong sense of our history and our destiny as a free people. in his book. "the making of the president 1960." theodore white wrote. america as a civilization began with religion. the first and earliest migrants from europe. who shaped americas culture. law. tradition and ethics. were those who came from englandand they came when english civilization was in torment over the manner in which englishmen might worship christ.... it was with remembered bitterness that the english migrants began the building of a new society in a new world. and out of this bitterness they distilled. though  without struggle. that first great landmark in americas unique civilization. that first of the creative american compromises that was to set america apart from the old world: freedom of worship. do you realize at the time that that was established in the united states that this was the only nation in the history of the world that had total freedom of worship. of religion. the only one. and today one of a few. and that distinction is going to be obliterated here on the floor of the u.s. senate. if you go to plymouth. massachusetts. today. you will find it teeming with tourists. they crowd around the rock with cameras. they clamber on board the mayflower two. they patiently file through the first pilgrim house. how many of them. i wonder. relate what happened at plymouth to their lives today. on the hill overlooking the sea. there is a monument bearing the names of those 102 english calvinists who were persecuted because they denied the ecclesiastical authority of the king. there is also this dedication: "to the forefathers in recognition of their labors. sacrifices and sufferings for the cause of civil and religious liberty." religious liberty. if you ask me. that was the real rock upon which our country was. built. that was 1620. unfortunately.  even a century passed before the persecuted became tne persecutors. in 1692. for instance. entrenched puritan hostility to free. dom of thought and speech helped cause the deaths of 19 men and women during the salem witch trials. in 1802. thomas jefferson wrote to the danbury. connecticut baptist association: "believing with you that religion is a matter which lies solely between man and his god ... i contemplate with sovereign reverence that act of the whole a the senator from tennessee. for the purpose of whatever he chooses to discuss. without losing my right to the floor. without this being considered as the end of the speech for the purpose of the twospeech rule. and that i be recognized at the conclusion of the remarks of the distinguished senator from tennessee.
i thank my distinguished friend from arkansas. i only wish that he would join in the extensive remarks which are being made out here. indeed. his remarks this hiorning were very eloquent. . the house of representatives. the goverthis is all civil authoritythe minute it steps onto the field. matter for how small a period of time. even if it is one word or two words. we have started the merger between religion and government. that is what has distinguished the united states of america. that that merger has never come to pass. because of it. religions have thrived here where they had place to grow anywhere else in the world. people came to the united states of america specifically so they could worshipworship. it is hard to believe in this day and age. everybody *says people came to the united states because they wanted to make an easy buck. because they wanted to enjoy a better life.  people came to the united statesand they still dobecause they wanted to be able to worship. when we define religionand this certainly includes myselfi am inclined to define it as being either protestant or catholic or jewish. that only scratches the surface. there are thousands of religions. thousandsalmost all of which are here in the united states of america.
. i should like to make one comment to my distinguished friend from th carolina. i agree that he articulates the other side of the issue from this senator very well. but he makes a statement about leaving this matter to state and local governments. just so that i  be accused of finger pointing on the senate floor. i will use my own state of connecticut as an example. when it was left to local and state governments. even after the constitution had been written. we had a fusion of church and state. for example. in connecticut. congregationalism was the official religion of the state of connecticut. and it was disestablished in 1818. indeed. it was thomas jefferson who wrote to a congregation of baptists in danbury. conn.. in 1802. and he said at that time:
. i rise today to ackledge the 350th anniversary of an event which is of historical importance to new england particularly and the nation in general: the founding of the first church of christ congregational in hartford. conn. in october 1632 the settlers who had founded newtown. later cambridge. of the massachusetts bay colony. established a simple puritan congregation in which they could practice the faith which had been outlawed in england. the reverend thomas hooker. a recent emigree from britain via the netherlands. was made the pastor and the reverend samuel stone his assistant. despite living in a puritan theocracy. hooker and his parishioners were  content. they sought greater autoy from the colonial government and more freedom in running their church. they wanted to move to the west toward "the great tidal river." the connecticut. because the colony feared dutch claims to that region and sought to acquire more and fertile land. the general court of the colony soon gave the people of newtown permission "to seek out some convenient place" on the river on which to settle. hooker and 100 followers left newtown in the spring of 1636. for 3 weeks they drove their herds through the new england wilderness. singing the psalms of david as they went. upon reaching the river they crossed it and situated themselves at a place which the indians called sucklaug. hooker renamed it after reverend stones native town of hertford in southeastern england. their new home was to be hartford. the newtown church was relocated to hartford. and it was from this pulpit that hooker in 1639 articulated the fundamental orders. the first written constitution in the new world. since that time the center church. as it is kn. has served as the spiritual heart of the city of hartford and an inspiration to all who have kn it. last month. in remembrance of the founding of their church. two dozen members retraced the route which hooker and his followers took on their pilgrimage. they found it to be a thrilling experience which renewed their pride and love for center church. the faith aid conviction exhibited by those at the church for three and a hialf centuries is the essence of what connecticut is. it is with great ho that i salute the first church of christ in hartford.e
i say to my good friend from missouri that ody contributes more to the deliberations of this body than he. but in this particular situation. ody is better qualified to contribute to these deliberations. because he ia both a u.s. senator. with an understanding of the conatitution and the history of this nation. and an ordained priest in the episcopal ministry. i might add that the position he holds is the same as that of my younger brother. harold. who is also an ordained minister in the episcopal faith. and my great uncle. randall davidson. who was the archbishop of canterbury. i understand that we will be continuing on this matter around 2 oclock tomorrow aftern. i ask the senator if he could fit it into his schedule so that at that juncture he would lead the debate on this matter. without any time limitation whatsoever.
let me finish. if i might. as i say. jefferson was enemy of the churches. he contributed regularly to them. one of the last things he did in his life was to draw the plans for the episcopal church in charlottesville to which he made a contribution. the minister of that church. who taught jeffersons grandsons. presided at his funeral. and while he was president of the united states he contributed to a fund for the erection of a catholic church. so he was  an enemy of religion. jefferson was very unlike thomas paine. thomas paine attacked all the churches on the ground that they werent really rellgious. most of the people who decried paines age of reason had probably never read it. and he perhaps had a little more merit than religious people would give him. but. etheless. he did attack them all. jefferson would never have done anything that foolish. he hoed other peoples opinions. every once in a while in one of his letters youll find a comment about somebodys having a very irrational belief. but on the whole he had respect for other peoples opinions. but. i say to the senator from iowa. make mistake about what thomas jefferson felt about religion and government in this country. his were the words. his were the words to erect a wall of separation between church and state. . the one question that i have to ask the senator from iowa. and i have listened to the senators very eloquent remarks. is tell me. tell the body where a child can pray in the united states today. where a child.  an institution.  a school.  a class. tell me where it is under our present laws. under the present constitution. under the court decisions of this land. under the laws of this land. where can a child  pray.
the answer is that virginia. like several other states. had an established religion. which was the anglican religion. and it was from that both jefferson and madison sought to withdraw. and. indeed. that is what precipitatedas you k. one of the three great things that jefferson wanted written on his tombstone were the facts of the articles of religious liberty in the state of virginia. which was the spawning ground for the first amendment. in order. those three items were: the declaration of independence. the articles of religious liberty in the state of virginia. and his involvement with the university of virginia. that is what he wanted to be remembered for. it is in those articles of religious liberty in the state of virginia that jefferson and madison sought to depart from the establishment of state religions. in the malone interview. the question was asked: was there much interplay between jefferson and madison in developing the concepts that led to the first amendment. malone: there was disagreement whatever between them about freedom of religion. the virginia statute for religious freedom was passed after jefferson had left the country and was in france. and it was passed under the guidance of madison. madison saw it through. so you see they were completely together so far as doctrine. jefferson and madison thought there was a great value in havirg religious diversity. they talked a lot about pennsylvania. pennsylvania was one of the most heterogeneous of the colonies and had a great variety of religions and mi sects of all sorts and had the highest degree of religious freedom. and jefferson and madison thought there was safety in numbers. whenever you have one dominant group it was likely to be tyrannical. question: churchstate separation was a radical concept at that time. wasnt it. how did jefferson come to endorse such a radical concept. malone: why. i dont k. i have great difficulty in figuring out where people get their ideas. where did jefferson get this idea. where did he get that idea. since i cant tell you where i got my own ideas. i find it extremely difficult to do. i think it was just his own. it was just inseparable from his idea of the freedom of the mind. he thought that authoritarian governments tended to be tyrannical. and he talked about kings and priests in the same sentence. by priests he didnt mean just catholics. he meant any clergymen. he thought they were disposed to limit freedom and even to suppress freedom of the mind. and he had history on his side. they certainly had. so the only thing to do was to get them out of it entirely and say that the functions of government extend only to action. opinion. and then the last question: church and state: the congregationalist clergy. the established clergy in new england. opposed him in his campaign for president. did that have an effect on his views toward the clergy in politics. malone: they certainly did. but his views were all established before that. as a matter of fact. he says that the conflict in virginia cover the statute for religious freedom] was the bitterest of his life. ive never been quite able to believe that because it seems to me that the attacks on him by the congregational clergy in new england far surpassed anything i k about in virginia. they denced him in the pulpits you see. from the pulpitt they said all sorts of outrageous things about him. that he was going to confiscate bibles and to hide your bibles. they accused him of personal immorality and the stories of his personal immorality were circulated by his religious opponents. stories for which there was foundation in fact. he was a very moral man. so the matter of thomas jefferson and the first amendment was just as hotly contested in that day as indeed  it is in this school prayer debate on the senate floor.
. i thank the distinguished senator from vermont for the depth of his comments. they come from a man of obvious deep faith and a man of extraordinary kledge on matters constitutional and governmental. they show clearly the level of the debate. a level which has been totally maintained within this chamber by both sides of the argument. the point which he makes is the one which i think needs emphasis. i asked the question on the floor of the u.s. senate yesterday and was told that i would receive an answer today. i will continue to ask the question every day and during every moment of debate. i want somebody to tell me where it is in this country that an individual child or an adult can pray. i continually hear it said by the proponents of the amendment and those on the out side who favor their cause. that the purpose of the amendment is to cure a situation whereby children can pray in our schools. i want to k where a child can pray in a school. under the present constitution. under the present case law. under the present laws of this nation. individual child can be prohibited from praying in schoolso. tell me where in this mr. hatch. if the senator will cotintry such a situation occurs and i do  mean to incause if somebody can tell me where terrvpt the senators good remarks. the child is that is being so prohibited. but it seems to me when a clild i will be the first one to initiate a suit can bow his or her head and say on his or her behalf. grace on his or her own initiative . what is prohibited is an orga- before lunchtime in a school. accordnized exercise. is a group activity. is a ing to the second circuit court of apgovernmental activity that embodies peals. that is an interference with that the saying of a prayer. that is prohib- childs right to practice religion. ited. but let us make it clear again and mr. weicker. what was the situaagain that right  in the united tion that the senator describes. will states. prayer is voluntary. however he identify it. its voluntary nature is removed by this mr. hatch. the case. amendment. under senate joint reso- mr. weicker. yes. lution 73. prayer becomes organized mr. hatch. let me look that up. i activity. will provide it to the distinguished
1847. more than a half century after we had the first amendment to the constitut ion of the united states in place. after we had the disestablishlent of the churches in the various states. after madison and jefferson were long in their graves. after all of that. and yet despite the first amendment. the people of this nation did what they did to the members of the mormon faith. we are  exempt from history in the year 1984. we will never be exempt from the lessons of history. and that is why that first amendmnent has to stand as it is today without any dilution whatsoever. i thank the senator for his courtesy.
who has ably led the opposition to such a constitutional amendment. contends that school authorities have right to prescribe a prayer for recitation by students. i agree. the gentleman from connecticut contends that there is single prayer which could satisfy the ecclesiastical requirements of all religions. i agree. the gentleman from connecticut contends that the business of public schools is education and  religion. and i agree. indeed. our points of agreement are so many that i sometimes wonder how we arrived on different sides of the question at hand. and i question the accuracy. as well as the authenticity. of the letter my friend from connecticut received last week stating "keep up the good work" and signed "the devil." but we do find ourselves in disagreement over the question of whether any prohibition on public prayer is. or should be. constitutional. s amendment. as perfected by the committee language. will give us a fair accounting of the senates support or opposition on the prayer issue. and i hope we will take that vote later than tomorrow.
in the very mesponse. then. are the words which bring your point of view into conflict with the constitution as separate and apart from organised silent prayer or. as the distinguished senator from illis stated in his dialog with the senator from arkansas. structured silent prayer. structured reflection. that is the whole point. that i where this amendment encounters difficulty. words like structured or organized are exactly what complicates this issue. all of a sudden prayer or reflection become an activity of the institution of government. the fact that we are talking about schools. as i have said many times before. does  relieve this or similar amendments of the onus of being government sponsored prayer. school is government. the words are interchangeable. in this context government means prayer. or school prayer. if you ask the question. are you in favor of government prayer. 99 percent would likely say  school prayer. yes. the words are interchangeable. school. in this case. is government. in this instance you are using the institution of government to bring about a desired result insofar as it relates to religion. that is why the proposal of the distinguished senator from illis runs afoul of the constitution.  let us see where we are in the parliamentary sense because i think it is important that my colleagues be apprised of the background of what has transpired today. the senator from illis said he wants his amendment decided. that is fair egh. there are at least 20 other senators who also had amendments. all who participated in this debate. all who wanted their amendments decided. but when the time came yesterday for a unanimousconsent request. all the other senators. with the exception of the senator from illis. were willing to lay their amendments aside in order that the president might have an upordown vote on his amendment. senators. i might add. who had participated rather consistently in the debate on this matter and each of whom had their own amendments. what the senator from illis is in effect saying. "i want to piggyback on the presidentr amendment so that i can be first ir .ine." what this senator tried to do. and i started from the position of  wanting to have anything voted on. was to say. "all right. let us take at least a first step and start voting. let us give the president of the united states an 9 up or down vote on his me din4nv howeve. i do9  think the p sideat will wla and i have made s secret of it. and i might add this matter was cleared with the president himself. he realises the risk involved here. but everybody. the majority leader and the 30 senators with their amendments. this senator. the president. everybody wanted to get the procear on track. during these negntations. i did  k where we were goifig to end up. i made commitments. either as to debate or debate. it was a very simple process. senator halus stood here monday night and said. "let us vote." my response on tuesday morning was. "sotbe it. let us vote." so when the senator from lilis jumps in on the matter and uses this as the occasion to conic to the head of the line. there mignt be some who would object. certainly i would. and  only for myself but on behalf of those who were patiently waiting to have their own amendments called up. i think it important to set the record straight. there was delay contem plated by my colleagues that share my viewpoint on this issue. we knew that sooner or later we would have to be involved in the voting process and we were willing to start that process. indeed. we had i weeks worth of debate on the prayer issue and at the outset of the second week of this debate we sat down with the majority leader and tired to facilitate his job.  the senator from illis also i. saying that he wants to tell the major ity leader what the order of business ts before the senate. i have commitment with the majority leader as to what happens after we vote on the presidents amendment. i have absolutely commitment from the majority leader that guarantees we will  raise the issue about which the senator fron illis is concerned. that could very well be the next business of the senate. i do  k. and i did  ask for this commitment. it was merely an agreement with all parties in this debate that we get on with the business of voting on the presidents amendment and the responsibility for  voting on it  is placed directly on the head of the senator from illis. ninetynine other senators wanted to proceed with a vote on senate joint resolution 93 as of last night. the senator from illis did . i repeat. there are at least 20 amendments pending on this matter and there is possibility that a solution involving all 20 amendments is going to be evolved in one fell swoop. so let the record show that the man who precipitated the issuei am very much in disagreement with himwas the president of the united sates.  the senator from illis. but. rather. the president. who felt that state prayer was an important issueis  going to have this vote under these circumstances. indeed. a serious question is raised because  we can arrive at an agreement which is fair to all sides. and. it must have been fair. because 99 senators gave their ok. ihe preponderance of whom aire in opposiltion to this senator and to the others on my side. all thought tile unanimousconsent agreement was fair. but.  unfortunately. one aieniidmeint and one anendnent only tlusi made it to the head of the line. it is  easy for me to disenias this nutter on thlie floor. however. i beliueve it is important that the public k thlat what has happened is  a . we have the aiendmnent of the distinguished senalor from illis before us for. as he says. organised reflection." "orgailzid silelt prayer-" as he says. "struetired silent prayer." or "structured reflietion." why does he. or those who propose this amendment. have any right t isay to my child. "your prayer shall be t strctiured silent reflection or meditation". my childrien are taught to pray out loud rnd in a very specific way. they are also told. (quioting from the bible in i ii worn shared wit h 11s by the dis ingilshed senator from washington. tha t they need  pray in any set way or audibly. yes. they can do it silently if they want to. but why should there be anything that indicates how it is tlhat these children are going to pry. right . we enjoy total freedom under tile first aniendment of tie constitution of the united states. what (lie senator from illis wants to (o. in a politically inuous way and. as lie perceives it. in a popular way. is to create a situation in religion and. niore specifically. prayer religion. ilhnt to me as r parent and to the leaders (if nv political flock is more objectionable than what already exists. i do  exactly understand what compels tile senator from illis to rest riet our current religious freedoms. i think lie. along with many others of good will. feels that what they want to restore are some traditione.l values. tradithmial practices. those traditional values and practices hurt a lot of people. in my generation and those before mine. we looked upon group prayer as some sort of warm little event in the course of our school day. yet. if you were jewish. if you were a muslim or a hindu or anything but christian and protestant. it was a very uncomfortable moment. those who experienced that discomfort could  say so because to say so would invite even more ridicule and more hurt. but we  k. since many of these persons have grown up and free to speak. that those were very painful motients. i k that my children and the children of my friends have a greater religious tolerance today than i or my friends ever had. quite frankly. they do  care about their classmates religion. they make their friends on the basis of other values than faith. i think that because they have accomplished this. then they may be more christian. to use my faith. than i ever was or ever will be. slowly but surely. we have done away with the religious prejudices that we have taught. some of these prejudices were taught by word. other by deed. others by tradition and practice. remember the words of rogers and hammerstein in south pacific. "youve got to be taught how to hate." well. we have taught and we have taught in many different ways. i remember when my two oldest boys. scott and gray. were growing up in greenwich. conn. both of them were fine baseball players. scott was a catcher. gray was a pitcher. gray has gone on. he is a professional hockey player  in the national hockey league. long ago. scott hung up his mitt. but they both loved baseball. they played in the little league. i shall never forget an incident that occurred at that time that impressed me as to far we have come in filminating prejudice ill this country. greenwich. conn.. does  have a large black population. it is very small. one of the finest athletes in the town of greenwich was a young black by the naie of moochie waddell. who played on scotts team. one day prior to a game. scott was catching batting practice in the cage and a reporter from the local newspaper approached him. he turned to scott and said. "hey. kid. which of the kids out there is moochie waddell." well moochie was the only black child on the team. but scott looked around where people were catching and throwing and warming up for the game. and he pointedi was standing around the cage so i heard this whole dialog and lie said. "he is the kid in the pink shirt." . that is the difference of perception of a new generation-- of mine or those who are older and are trying to retain the old traditions and the old values. i think we have come a long way toward realizing the amerlcaii dream in many ways. and religion is one of them. i have said it here before and i will say it again. if there had been a constitutional amendment on this floor 50 years ago. do you think. it would have been anything as sophisticated as the amendment of the distinguished senator from illis. do you think it would have said: hing in this constitution shall be construed to prohibit individual or group silent prayer or silent reflection in public schools. person shall be required by the united states or by any state to participate in such prayer or reflection. neither the united states  any state shall compose any prayer or encourage any particular form of prayer or reflection. the authorization by the united states or any state of equal access to the use of public facilities by student voluntary rollgious groups shall  constitute an establishment of religion.  i will tell yon what it would have said. it would have amended the first amendment. and we would have had a prayer. it would have been audible. it would have been christian. and. more specificilly. it would have been protestant. in any manner. shape. or form. in terms of how human being perceives human being. i do  yearn for the good old days when i went to school. sure. there are going to be just as many likes or dislikes among classmates. but at least they will  relate to the color of a persons skin or their religion or ecoic statusthe good old values. let me tell you. the good old values might have been all right in an earlier day. but they do  fly in this one. and i say thank god to that. tradition is a substitute for the constitution. racial prejudice was a tradition in the united states and thanks to dr. king and the supreme court of the united states and then. belatedly. the congresswe were the last ones to come into linewe made the constitution come alive for whites. it was longer just words. it became reality.
i say to the distinguished senator from utah. any way you want to cut it or define it. we are talking about school prayer and we are talking about programs. that is what the amendment says. to prevent the implementation of programs. voluintary prayer and meditation in the public schools. to change a word here and add a word there. it walks like a duck. it quacks like a duck. it looks like a duck. so it is a duck. but how unfortunate that hvting lost the freestanding debate we  have to piggyback on the backs of the sick and the elderly and the young.  it is being piggybacked on this bill. they lose on the debate. the proponents of what is being offered here. and  they try to put it on a bill so ody will dare kill the bill. well. i am the one. along with senator proxmire and the other members of the committee. who spent the best part of a year devoting our time to those who are requesting and have the right to expect the assistance of their government. and  these people are being denied that assistance in terms of an amendment which was all prayer in school.
. a very thoughful and perceptive discussion has come to my attention on the subject of churchstate relations. it is in the form of an open letter from the right reverend arthur e. walmsley. bishop of the episcopal diocese of connecticut to john p. whelan. archbishop of hartford concerning the archbishops article "a constitutional right to speak" which appeared in the hartford courant. i believe my colleagues will benefit from the wisdom of these distinguished clergymen on this matter. i ask that the letter by bishop walmsley and the article by archbishop whealon be printed in the record. the letter follows:
i say to my good friend from missouri that ody contributes more to the deliberations of this body than he. but in this particular situation. ody is better qualified to contribute to these deliberations. because he ia both a u.s. senator. with an understanding of the conatitution and the history of this nation. and an ordained priest in the episcopal ministry. i might add that the position he holds is the same as that of my younger brother. harold. who is also an ordained minister in the episcopal faith. and my great uncle. randall davidson. who was the archbishop of canterbury. i understand that we will be continuing on this matter around 2 oclock tomorrow aftern. i ask the senator if he could fit it into his schedule so that at that juncture he would lead the debate on this matter. without any time limitation whatsoever.
let me finish. if i might. as i say. jefferson was enemy of the churches. he contributed regularly to them. one of the last things he did in his life was to draw the plans for the episcopal church in charlottesville to which he made a contribution. the minister of that church. who taught jeffersons grandsons. presided at his funeral. and while he was president of the united states he contributed to a fund for the erection of a catholic church. so he was  an enemy of religion. jefferson was very unlike thomas paine. thomas paine attacked all the churches on the ground that they werent really rellgious. most of the people who decried paines age of reason had probably never read it. and he perhaps had a little more merit than religious people would give him. but. etheless. he did attack them all. jefferson would never have done anything that foolish. he hoed other peoples opinions. every once in a while in one of his letters youll find a comment about somebodys having a very irrational belief. but on the whole he had respect for other peoples opinions. but. i say to the senator from iowa. make mistake about what thomas jefferson felt about religion and government in this country. his were the words. his were the words to erect a wall of separation between church and state. . the one question that i have to ask the senator from iowa. and i have listened to the senators very eloquent remarks. is tell me. tell the body where a child can pray in the united states today. where a child.  an institution.  a school.  a class. tell me where it is under our present laws. under the present constitution. under the court decisions of this land. under the laws of this land. where can a child  pray.
the answer is that virginia. like several other states. had an established religion. which was the anglican religion. and it was from that both jefferson and madison sought to withdraw. and. indeed. that is what precipitatedas you k. one of the three great things that jefferson wanted written on his tombstone were the facts of the articles of religious liberty in the state of virginia. which was the spawning ground for the first amendment. in order. those three items were: the declaration of independence. the articles of religious liberty in the state of virginia. and his involvement with the university of virginia. that is what he wanted to be remembered for. it is in those articles of religious liberty in the state of virginia that jefferson and madison sought to depart from the establishment of state religions. in the malone interview. the question was asked: was there much interplay between jefferson and madison in developing the concepts that led to the first amendment. malone: there was disagreement whatever between them about freedom of religion. the virginia statute for religious freedom was passed after jefferson had left the country and was in france. and it was passed under the guidance of madison. madison saw it through. so you see they were completely together so far as doctrine. jefferson and madison thought there was a great value in havirg religious diversity. they talked a lot about pennsylvania. pennsylvania was one of the most heterogeneous of the colonies and had a great variety of religions and mi sects of all sorts and had the highest degree of religious freedom. and jefferson and madison thought there was safety in numbers. whenever you have one dominant group it was likely to be tyrannical. question: churchstate separation was a radical concept at that time. wasnt it. how did jefferson come to endorse such a radical concept. malone: why. i dont k. i have great difficulty in figuring out where people get their ideas. where did jefferson get this idea. where did he get that idea. since i cant tell you where i got my own ideas. i find it extremely difficult to do. i think it was just his own. it was just inseparable from his idea of the freedom of the mind. he thought that authoritarian governments tended to be tyrannical. and he talked about kings and priests in the same sentence. by priests he didnt mean just catholics. he meant any clergymen. he thought they were disposed to limit freedom and even to suppress freedom of the mind. and he had history on his side. they certainly had. so the only thing to do was to get them out of it entirely and say that the functions of government extend only to action. opinion. and then the last question: church and state: the congregationalist clergy. the established clergy in new england. opposed him in his campaign for president. did that have an effect on his views toward the clergy in politics. malone: they certainly did. but his views were all established before that. as a matter of fact. he says that the conflict in virginia cover the statute for religious freedom] was the bitterest of his life. ive never been quite able to believe that because it seems to me that the attacks on him by the congregational clergy in new england far surpassed anything i k about in virginia. they denced him in the pulpits you see. from the pulpitt they said all sorts of outrageous things about him. that he was going to confiscate bibles and to hide your bibles. they accused him of personal immorality and the stories of his personal immorality were circulated by his religious opponents. stories for which there was foundation in fact. he was a very moral man. so the matter of thomas jefferson and the first amendment was just as hotly contested in that day as indeed  it is in this school prayer debate on the senate floor.
. i thank the distinguished senator from vermont for the depth of his comments. they come from a man of obvious deep faith and a man of extraordinary kledge on matters constitutional and governmental. they show clearly the level of the debate. a level which has been totally maintained within this chamber by both sides of the argument. the point which he makes is the one which i think needs emphasis. i asked the question on the floor of the u.s. senate yesterday and was told that i would receive an answer today. i will continue to ask the question every day and during every moment of debate. i want somebody to tell me where it is in this country that an individual child or an adult can pray. i continually hear it said by the proponents of the amendment and those on the out side who favor their cause. that the purpose of the amendment is to cure a situation whereby children can pray in our schools. i want to k where a child can pray in a school. under the present constitution. under the present case law. under the present laws of this nation. individual child can be prohibited from praying in schoolso. tell me where in this mr. hatch. if the senator will cotintry such a situation occurs and i do  mean to incause if somebody can tell me where terrvpt the senators good remarks. the child is that is being so prohibited. but it seems to me when a clild i will be the first one to initiate a suit can bow his or her head and say on his or her behalf. grace on his or her own initiative . what is prohibited is an orga- before lunchtime in a school. accordnized exercise. is a group activity. is a ing to the second circuit court of apgovernmental activity that embodies peals. that is an interference with that the saying of a prayer. that is prohib- childs right to practice religion. ited. but let us make it clear again and mr. weicker. what was the situaagain that right  in the united tion that the senator describes. will states. prayer is voluntary. however he identify it. its voluntary nature is removed by this mr. hatch. the case. amendment. under senate joint reso- mr. weicker. yes. lution 73. prayer becomes organized mr. hatch. let me look that up. i activity. will provide it to the distinguished
1847. more than a half century after we had the first amendment to the constitut ion of the united states in place. after we had the disestablishlent of the churches in the various states. after madison and jefferson were long in their graves. after all of that. and yet despite the first amendment. the people of this nation did what they did to the members of the mormon faith. we are  exempt from history in the year 1984. we will never be exempt from the lessons of history. and that is why that first amendmnent has to stand as it is today without any dilution whatsoever. i thank the senator for his courtesy.
who has ably led the opposition to such a constitutional amendment. contends that school authorities have right to prescribe a prayer for recitation by students. i agree. the gentleman from connecticut contends that there is single prayer which could satisfy the ecclesiastical requirements of all religions. i agree. the gentleman from connecticut contends that the business of public schools is education and  religion. and i agree. indeed. our points of agreement are so many that i sometimes wonder how we arrived on different sides of the question at hand. and i question the accuracy. as well as the authenticity. of the letter my friend from connecticut received last week stating "keep up the good work" and signed "the devil." but we do find ourselves in disagreement over the question of whether any prohibition on public prayer is. or should be. constitutional. s amendment. as perfected by the committee language. will give us a fair accounting of the senates support or opposition on the prayer issue. and i hope we will take that vote later than tomorrow.
in the very mesponse. then. are the words which bring your point of view into conflict with the constitution as separate and apart from organised silent prayer or. as the distinguished senator from illis stated in his dialog with the senator from arkansas. structured silent prayer. structured reflection. that is the whole point. that i where this amendment encounters difficulty. words like structured or organized are exactly what complicates this issue. all of a sudden prayer or reflection become an activity of the institution of government. the fact that we are talking about schools. as i have said many times before. does  relieve this or similar amendments of the onus of being government sponsored prayer. school is government. the words are interchangeable. in this context government means prayer. or school prayer. if you ask the question. are you in favor of government prayer. 99 percent would likely say  school prayer. yes. the words are interchangeable. school. in this case. is government. in this instance you are using the institution of government to bring about a desired result insofar as it relates to religion. that is why the proposal of the distinguished senator from illis runs afoul of the constitution.  let us see where we are in the parliamentary sense because i think it is important that my colleagues be apprised of the background of what has transpired today. the senator from illis said he wants his amendment decided. that is fair egh. there are at least 20 other senators who also had amendments. all who participated in this debate. all who wanted their amendments decided. but when the time came yesterday for a unanimousconsent request. all the other senators. with the exception of the senator from illis. were willing to lay their amendments aside in order that the president might have an upordown vote on his amendment. senators. i might add. who had participated rather consistently in the debate on this matter and each of whom had their own amendments. what the senator from illis is in effect saying. "i want to piggyback on the presidentr amendment so that i can be first ir .ine." what this senator tried to do. and i started from the position of  wanting to have anything voted on. was to say. "all right. let us take at least a first step and start voting. let us give the president of the united states an 9 up or down vote on his me din4nv howeve. i do9  think the p sideat will wla and i have made s secret of it. and i might add this matter was cleared with the president himself. he realises the risk involved here. but everybody. the majority leader and the 30 senators with their amendments. this senator. the president. everybody wanted to get the procear on track. during these negntations. i did  k where we were goifig to end up. i made commitments. either as to debate or debate. it was a very simple process. senator halus stood here monday night and said. "let us vote." my response on tuesday morning was. "sotbe it. let us vote." so when the senator from lilis jumps in on the matter and uses this as the occasion to conic to the head of the line. there mignt be some who would object. certainly i would. and  only for myself but on behalf of those who were patiently waiting to have their own amendments called up. i think it important to set the record straight. there was delay contem plated by my colleagues that share my viewpoint on this issue. we knew that sooner or later we would have to be involved in the voting process and we were willing to start that process. indeed. we had i weeks worth of debate on the prayer issue and at the outset of the second week of this debate we sat down with the majority leader and tired to facilitate his job.  the senator from illis also i. saying that he wants to tell the major ity leader what the order of business ts before the senate. i have commitment with the majority leader as to what happens after we vote on the presidents amendment. i have absolutely commitment from the majority leader that guarantees we will  raise the issue about which the senator fron illis is concerned. that could very well be the next business of the senate. i do  k. and i did  ask for this commitment. it was merely an agreement with all parties in this debate that we get on with the business of voting on the presidents amendment and the responsibility for  voting on it  is placed directly on the head of the senator from illis. ninetynine other senators wanted to proceed with a vote on senate joint resolution 93 as of last night. the senator from illis did . i repeat. there are at least 20 amendments pending on this matter and there is possibility that a solution involving all 20 amendments is going to be evolved in one fell swoop. so let the record show that the man who precipitated the issuei am very much in disagreement with himwas the president of the united sates.  the senator from illis. but. rather. the president. who felt that state prayer was an important issueis  going to have this vote under these circumstances. indeed. a serious question is raised because  we can arrive at an agreement which is fair to all sides. and. it must have been fair. because 99 senators gave their ok. ihe preponderance of whom aire in opposiltion to this senator and to the others on my side. all thought tile unanimousconsent agreement was fair. but.  unfortunately. one aieniidmeint and one anendnent only tlusi made it to the head of the line. it is  easy for me to disenias this nutter on thlie floor. however. i beliueve it is important that the public k thlat what has happened is  a . we have the aiendmnent of the distinguished senalor from illis before us for. as he says. organised reflection." "orgailzid silelt prayer-" as he says. "struetired silent prayer." or "structured reflietion." why does he. or those who propose this amendment. have any right t isay to my child. "your prayer shall be t strctiured silent reflection or meditation". my childrien are taught to pray out loud rnd in a very specific way. they are also told. (quioting from the bible in i ii worn shared wit h 11s by the dis ingilshed senator from washington. tha t they need  pray in any set way or audibly. yes. they can do it silently if they want to. but why should there be anything that indicates how it is tlhat these children are going to pry. right . we enjoy total freedom under tile first aniendment of tie constitution of the united states. what (lie senator from illis wants to (o. in a politically inuous way and. as lie perceives it. in a popular way. is to create a situation in religion and. niore specifically. prayer religion. ilhnt to me as r parent and to the leaders (if nv political flock is more objectionable than what already exists. i do  exactly understand what compels tile senator from illis to rest riet our current religious freedoms. i think lie. along with many others of good will. feels that what they want to restore are some traditione.l values. tradithmial practices. those traditional values and practices hurt a lot of people. in my generation and those before mine. we looked upon group prayer as some sort of warm little event in the course of our school day. yet. if you were jewish. if you were a muslim or a hindu or anything but christian and protestant. it was a very uncomfortable moment. those who experienced that discomfort could  say so because to say so would invite even more ridicule and more hurt. but we  k. since many of these persons have grown up and free to speak. that those were very painful motients. i k that my children and the children of my friends have a greater religious tolerance today than i or my friends ever had. quite frankly. they do  care about their classmates religion. they make their friends on the basis of other values than faith. i think that because they have accomplished this. then they may be more christian. to use my faith. than i ever was or ever will be. slowly but surely. we have done away with the religious prejudices that we have taught. some of these prejudices were taught by word. other by deed. others by tradition and practice. remember the words of rogers and hammerstein in south pacific. "youve got to be taught how to hate." well. we have taught and we have taught in many different ways. i remember when my two oldest boys. scott and gray. were growing up in greenwich. conn. both of them were fine baseball players. scott was a catcher. gray was a pitcher. gray has gone on. he is a professional hockey player  in the national hockey league. long ago. scott hung up his mitt. but they both loved baseball. they played in the little league. i shall never forget an incident that occurred at that time that impressed me as to far we have come in filminating prejudice ill this country. greenwich. conn.. does  have a large black population. it is very small. one of the finest athletes in the town of greenwich was a young black by the naie of moochie waddell. who played on scotts team. one day prior to a game. scott was catching batting practice in the cage and a reporter from the local newspaper approached him. he turned to scott and said. "hey. kid. which of the kids out there is moochie waddell." well moochie was the only black child on the team. but scott looked around where people were catching and throwing and warming up for the game. and he pointedi was standing around the cage so i heard this whole dialog and lie said. "he is the kid in the pink shirt." . that is the difference of perception of a new generation-- of mine or those who are older and are trying to retain the old traditions and the old values. i think we have come a long way toward realizing the amerlcaii dream in many ways. and religion is one of them. i have said it here before and i will say it again. if there had been a constitutional amendment on this floor 50 years ago. do you think. it would have been anything as sophisticated as the amendment of the distinguished senator from illis. do you think it would have said: hing in this constitution shall be construed to prohibit individual or group silent prayer or silent reflection in public schools. person shall be required by the united states or by any state to participate in such prayer or reflection. neither the united states  any state shall compose any prayer or encourage any particular form of prayer or reflection. the authorization by the united states or any state of equal access to the use of public facilities by student voluntary rollgious groups shall  constitute an establishment of religion.  i will tell yon what it would have said. it would have amended the first amendment. and we would have had a prayer. it would have been audible. it would have been christian. and. more specificilly. it would have been protestant. in any manner. shape. or form. in terms of how human being perceives human being. i do  yearn for the good old days when i went to school. sure. there are going to be just as many likes or dislikes among classmates. but at least they will  relate to the color of a persons skin or their religion or ecoic statusthe good old values. let me tell you. the good old values might have been all right in an earlier day. but they do  fly in this one. and i say thank god to that. tradition is a substitute for the constitution. racial prejudice was a tradition in the united states and thanks to dr. king and the supreme court of the united states and then. belatedly. the congresswe were the last ones to come into linewe made the constitution come alive for whites. it was longer just words. it became reality.
i say to the distinguished senator from utah. any way you want to cut it or define it. we are talking about school prayer and we are talking about programs. that is what the amendment says. to prevent the implementation of programs. voluintary prayer and meditation in the public schools. to change a word here and add a word there. it walks like a duck. it quacks like a duck. it looks like a duck. so it is a duck. but how unfortunate that hvting lost the freestanding debate we  have to piggyback on the backs of the sick and the elderly and the young.  it is being piggybacked on this bill. they lose on the debate. the proponents of what is being offered here. and  they try to put it on a bill so ody will dare kill the bill. well. i am the one. along with senator proxmire and the other members of the committee. who spent the best part of a year devoting our time to those who are requesting and have the right to expect the assistance of their government. and  these people are being denied that assistance in terms of an amendment which was all prayer in school.
. a very thoughful and perceptive discussion has come to my attention on the subject of churchstate relations. it is in the form of an open letter from the right reverend arthur e. walmsley. bishop of the episcopal diocese of connecticut to john p. whelan. archbishop of hartford concerning the archbishops article "a constitutional right to speak" which appeared in the hartford courant. i believe my colleagues will benefit from the wisdom of these distinguished clergymen on this matter. i ask that the letter by bishop walmsley and the article by archbishop whealon be printed in the record. the letter follows:
in a few minutes.  saying how there is press censorship in nicaragua. press censorship in nicaragua. what is it that is happening in south africa. ask our own news mediaelectronic. printed. whatever. gets kicked out of south africa. where you have a total press embargo. press censorship. the past masters sit there in pretoria. then he commented about the opposition to the clergy in nicaragua. opposition to the clergy. how would you like to have your church services. day in. day out. supervised and/or obliterated by the security forces of south africa. and what were the patriots in america supposed to do when the english occupied us. sit back and take it. i do  think there is any comparison. this is why i oppose the amendment of the distinguished senator from th carolina. to equate the reaction to oppression by the blacks of south africa with the terrible injustices and inhumanity imposed by that regime in pretoriawhich is in effect what we do if we accept this amendmentthat is my problem and i imagine the problem of a few other senators on this floor. to reject violence. i have problem with that. but if violence is to be set on a scale as between the violence and terrorism of the south african government compared to the feeble reaction by the blacks. there is comparison. one end of the scale. indeed. is on the floor. ody in the senate of the united states cares to go ahead and engage in any activity which encourages one side or both sides toward the end of violence. but i do  want them to be able to sit in south africa and say the senate acted. but it acted in such a way as. believe me. this black majority is as much at fault as is the government in pretoria. that would be wrong. in the testimony of general obasanjo. one of the eminent persons group from the british commonwealth. senator kennedy asked the following question: chairman kennedy. general. i just have one final question. i e that senator weicker has one or two concluding questions. and that is with regard to the anc. there are those that say members of congress and the senate and american people that are supporting strong ecoic measures are really working in harmony with the anc and that that is basically a communistfront organization. therefore. that those who are really committed to democracy should reject both the anc. its policies. and the policies of those who may be in harmony with the anc. how do you respond to the allegation that the anc is basically a communistfront organization that is a terrorist organization and that is committed to continued violence and disruption. i suppose thats put in about as hard a way as you could put it.
said. " i certainly do  want re dame university required to perform them. the fact is that if re dame wants to take federal funds they can deny." he goes on to say. "they can be forced to perform them. they can deny the abortion if it is requested." i said. "it is a lot more than that. under those title ix abortion regulations they have to provide it regardless of their religious beliefs. if those regulations stay in force and effect. and there is way it seems to me they do . and this bill passes in its present form. then catholic institutions that are  owned and controlled by that church but nevertheless affiliated with the church are going to have to provide abortions as a matter of fact to their students. that is. i think. an abomination and i think it flies in the fact of religious freedom."
. is we are unwilling to pay the price to achieve equality for women. the handicapped. the elderly. and the miities of this nation. we like to say. "we are for you" so we achieve a political point. but we are unwilling to come up and pay the price to achieve that equality. the same people. for example. who are against discrimination of miities are against busing. you turn to them and say. "all right. busing is  a good solution. how about if we build the schools and hire the personnci and establish the programs which. in effect. draw people into the educational institution." "well. that costs money and that means taxes." and the answer is. "that is right." if you want to achieve equality of education for all our young people. right. you can have your wallets and your prejudices intact. something has to give. the issues are very simple on the floor of this senate today.  1. are we going to pay the price to eliminate discrimination in this nation. you can go ahead. for example. and say to this university that discriminates. "i want to keep you all as my friends and we are only going to go ahead and penalize. that unit of the university which has been d)ing the discriminating." that is a great solution becase.  1. it shows you are for equality and you do  lose too many votes. i he same would hold true of any particular institutionstate governments. corporations. you name it. what we are trying to do is to achieve that equality and  pay a price. in our case. the price probably is votes. in the case of the constituencies. it is probably their feelings. their sensibilities. or their wallet. there is a price to be paid. but to me it is worth it from both sides in the sense that.  1. it brings the da so much closer when we eliminate all discrimination in this country. and.  2. i am uneasy with the fact that we should be subsidizing discrimination in any way today. and we are. the penalty for any institution that permits discrimination should be that they  get one nickel.  one nickel. but we saw when the grove city decision was handed down a magnificent opportunity to keep our friends while at the same time to keen3 our national charade of being against discrimination. this legislation calls that bluff. we might lose some friends with passage of the legislation. but it will be firmly established both in law and in fact.  1. you do  discriminate in this country at all. and  2. you certainly do  do it with the taxpayers money. much has been made of the religious argument. that this bill somehow intrudes on freedom of religion. it is  so at all.  so. for all the institutions where exemptions have been requested. exemptions have been granted. exemptions have been denied at all. but to go ahead and move from control by a religious organization to those closely identified with the tenets of a religious organization creates an emous loophole. a loophole which. in effect. would make this legislation meaningless. i might add to affirm that fact. and i am sure these matters have been put into the record already by my colleagues. that it is important to e that the major catholic. protestant. and jewish organizations are supporting the restoration act. supporters include: u.s. catholic conference of bishops. national council of churches. american jewish congress. american baptist churches. evangelical lutheran church of america. union of american hebrew congregations. antldefamation league of bnal brith. american jewish committee. church of the brethren. presbyterian church usa. church women united. newworknational catholic justice lobby. united methodist church. and the episcopal church. ody feels that their religious freedoms are being intruded upon. . in the narrowest sense. as i said. even those that are controlled by a particular religious faith can apply for an exemption and those exemptions have been granted. closely identified with.  that obviously broadens the situation. permitting discrimination under the flimsiest of pretexts. even maybe just a name and a title. never mind a practice. ody has stood on this floor longer and argued for the preciousness of religious freedom in this nation than this scnator. i find it amazing that some who  raise the religious issues are the very ones who want governmentorganized prayer in schools. they want the government to organize prayer. and yet they express shock and amazement relative to a bill that uses the force of the federal government to eliminate discrimination among the various groups i have already identified as being an incursion on religious freedom.
. i join with the gentleman from new jersey and commend him for his leadership in directing the attention of this body very effectively to the outrage which has been perpetrated in the case of the green berets. i have intention of making any statement that would appear that i have a fixed opinion on the guilt or inence of the accused in the case concerned. my purpose is to express a deep personal reaction to the manner in which the affair has been handled. there are those who charge today that too much is being done to protect the criminal. in this case. i feel too much has been done to make these men criminals before they had a chance to protect themselves. i join my colleagues in asking that this case be reviewed by the congress immediately. before any further proceedings are attempted. there are too many basic freedoms involved to continue the prosecution of this matter without the congress king. in detail. what has happened and what the military intends to do. the individual liberties that we so proudly hold up before the world as principles of democracy are in danger of violation. our democratic processes stand trial in these proceedings. god grant that our actions will  seem to be mockery before the world. again i commend the distinguished gentleman from new jersey for his leadership in this matter.
. this mornings new york times contained a timely and wellreasoned editorial entitled "greece takes a good turn." the american people and the people of the world who ho and respect the contributions greece has made to freedom and democratic institutions join in the hope and prayer that the return of constitutional government in greece will  be long delayed. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the editorial to which i have referred. entitled "greece takes a good turn." published in the new york times of may 9. 1967.
. the world is indebted to ancient israel for biblical law. for the 10 commandments and for the mosaic system of laws which has been the basis of much judicial procedure for western civilization. today. modern israel is devoted to retaining this historic and highprincipled legacy. we must continue to encourage her endeavors. i ask that the senate of the united states salute the state of israel on her 19th birthday. wish her many happy returns of the day. and pray for a long and prosperous life.
. at the triennial ecumenical assembly of church women united. held at purdue university from july 11 to 16. the following resolution was approved unanimously by the 2.000 delegates to the assembly: since it is  possible for the first time in history to eliminate poverty. as christians we have a clear and compelling mandate to support even stronger efforts than have yet been made towards this end. our experience with thousands of girls in poverty throughout the country leads us to the conviction that the job corps program is absolutely essential if this generation of disadvantaged girls is to receive adequate assistance. believing that the essential coordination of all services for the poor and the continuing necessary ination in these programs and services can be accomplished only through a single administrative agency. we support the office of ecoic opportunity as that agency. therefore. church women united. assembled in lafayette. indiana. july 16. 1967. urge members of our congress to support the ecoic opportunity bill and further urge our members as individuals and as groups to make kn their support of this bill. i invite the attention of the senate to the admirable objectives expressed in this resolution. and urge that we heed the advice of these ladies by passing legislation. during the remainder of this session. which will make ecoic opportunities available to our underprivileged citizens.
. several weeks ago rabbi harvey j. fields. of temple israel. in boston delivered a moving and thoughtprovoking rosh hashana sermon entitled "with grief acquainted." in this sermon. which contains a lesson of value for us all. rabbi fields discussed the problems of our cities and the people in them. and the responsibility which we all share to improve the lot of the unfortunate. i ask unanimous consent that rabbi fields most appropriate sermon be printed in the record.
. it is a great ho for me to welcome to the senate today the reverend father moushegh der kaloustian. father kaloustian had an outstanding career as a religious leader and scholar in his native palestine before coming to this country in 1959. after serving for several years in racine. wis.. father kaloustian has  chosen to settle in worcester. mass.. where his contribution to his church and to the community at large has been commendable. father kaloustian speaks to us today as a representative of the armenian people. for over 2.000 years. the freedomloving people of armenia have struggled against oppression. first came the conquests of ancient empires. then of neighboring belligerents. . their land is under soviet rule. the crowning achievement of the armenian people was the establishment of the independent republic of armenia on their republic was unfortunately short lived. forced to accept incorporation into the soviet union. the courageous armenian people have nevertheless striven to preserve their national culture against the onslaughts of uniform communist control. in this continuing struggle. the achievement of national unification and independence a half century ago is both a symbol of armenian love for freedom and selfdetermination. and a promise and hope for the future that the armenian people will eventually join the free and peaceful countries of the world as a fully independent nation.
. conditions in southern africa continue to be a matter of great concern to those of us who believe in the goal of liberty and justice for all. the continued and enforced separation of the races is  only unnatural. it is ecoically senseless and politically dangerous as well. it is for these reasons that i was particularly pleased to read recently the. resolutions adopted by the executive council of the episcopal church in the course of its deliberations in december of 1968. the intent of these resolutions is to insure that investments of the episcopal church will  be placed in banks or businesses whose policies contribute to maintaining the present way of life in south africa. but will be used to support those institutions which are promoting the education and ecoic assimilation of black south africans. i ask unanimous consent that the text of these resolutions be printed in the record.
. earlier this year. rabbi larry j. halpern. of temple israel. boston. mass.. delivered one of the most moving and inspired sermons i have ever read. the occasion was rosh hashana. the day of atonement. the text was the challenge flung down by the prophet amos to the worshippers in the temple many thousands of years ago. the message was as apt to the needs of our society as it was to the needs of theirs. i ask unanimous consent that rabbi halperns sermon be printed in the record.
. most of us who are deeply concerned about the spreading use of drugs in our society are aware that education is of vital importance in overcoming this drastic problem. one organization which is making a useful and conscientious attempt to inform adults and youngsters alike of the dangers of drug abuse is the massachusetts council of churches. the council is at present giving wide circulation to a report prepared by the committee on drugs and organized crime of the protestant episcopal diocese of massachusetts. in the belief that many other religious and civil organizations might benefit from a kledge of their approach and their findings. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the report be printed in the record.
it seems to me there is an alternative to what the senator from texas has said. maybe he does  agree with me. and the senator from washington may  agree with me. i am  suggesting that if we achieve a first strike capability. automatically the soviet union is going to fire first without warning. i pray to god that does  happen. for if it does the world will  be worth living in anyway. it will  matter who has superior weapons for neither side will be able to live on this earth. then. there is the other point. as we continue with our minuteman ii and iii force. and poseidon production. getting ever closer to a first strike capability. what will the soviet union have to do. it will have to respond by building more accurate ss11s. ss13s. ss19s. and whatever one wants to call them with more megatonnage. and what will we have to do. we will have to get larger minuteman iiis or minuteman ivs. and mirvs. we will go on and on. and they will go on and on. we will spend trillions of dollars in an insane nuclear arms race. what i am suggesting by this very modest amendment which i propose is that the legislative body the executive branch because the executive branch has already said it does  seek a first strike capabilitybut this legislative branch should say that we do  seek a first strike capability. let it be kn to the soviet union and to the world that we want to end this nuclear arms race in which we are engaged and which is causing so much suffering to millions of people.  only in the united states. but all over the world. that is all i propose.
. the relevant provision of h.r. 7447 as passed by the house. that i have referred to here. will read as follows if the amendment i propose here is accepted: e of the funds herein appropriated to the department of defense under this act shall be expended to support directly or indirectly combat activities in. over or from off the shore of cambodia and laos by united states forces. the only change will be the addition of the phrase "and laos." finally. while action taken by the house and the amendment language i propose here can serve as a signal of congressional intent. it must be recognized that legally these actions are only applicable to the specific funds appropriated under h.r. 7447. hence. there still exists a need for congress to enact comprehensive legislation that would require prior congressional scrutiny and approval of any expenditure of funds to finance activities of u.s. armed forces in indochina. s. 578. commonly termed the churchcase bill. is designed to accomplish this objective. it is my understanding that senator church and senator case intend to introduce an amended version of s. 578 sometime this week. i intend to work for the passage of this bill at the earliest possible date. the decision of whether or  to engage in combat activities in indochina must be shared by congress and the executive.
: "the soul. secured in her existence. smiles at the drawn dagger. and defies its point." the words of the english essayist addison spring to mind in our reflections on the life and character of one of this centurys greatest men. joseph cardinal mindszenty. former primate of the catholic church in hungary and courageous upholder of liberty for his people against the oppressive hand of tyranny. at the time of the hungarian revolt against russia in 1956. freedomfighters liberated cardinal mindszenty from the captivity to which he had been sentenced 7 years earlierin 1949by the communist regime on charges of treason. his reaction to his trial and subsequent imprisonment won him the admiration of free peoples everywhere. the tragic events of 1956 are well knthe brutal soviet intervention. the presence of russian tanks in the streets of budapest. and the dramatic escape of the cardinal to safety of the american mission. for some 16 years he remained a voluntary prisoner of the mission. unable to venture forth. unwilling to surrender his freedom. then. 2 years ago. he was permitted to leave for vienna. yet. though today he is able to move freely among the peoples of the communist world. his hearts love. and loyalty remain in hungary with the people he has served with such courage. and whose liberty he had so valiantly championed. over two decades of isolationfirst of imprisonmentand who can forget the pictures of the cardinals grim face during the ordeal of the court trial.-then of enforced asylum in the american diplomatic compoundfollowed by what appears to be permanent exile from his homeland have given to the cardinals life the quality of genuine martyrdom. in his letter formally replacing cardinal mindszenty as primate of hungaryan office he had held since 1945pope paul wrotewe bow in deep respect before thee and thank thee from the bottom of our hearts for the numerous examples of virtue that in the course of so many years thou has given to the entire catholic family. to which i would addto the entire world community. to all those who value liberty and who ho courage. recalling the peoples court trial in 1949. the pope did  hesitate to speak of "the crown of thorns placed on thy head. less precious than thy faithfulness to the church of christ." and it is true that the sufferings of cardinal mindszenty. his unfailing dignity in the face of abuse and torment. are cast  only in the heroic mold of historys greatest advocates of freedom but call to mind the ility of christs own passion. there is doubt that cardinal mindszenty has indeed walked in the way of the cross and has found it a source of life and hope. the cardinals uncompromising stand against communism goes back to the days after world war i which saw the brief rule of the bela kun regime and the socalled red terror. during that time the cardinal has also been arrested on charges similar to those of 1949conspiracy to overthrow the regime and illegal dealings in foreign currency. the collapse of the kun regime in 1919 brought him his freedom. we are living  in a time of ddtente. in which. despite the hostilities and tensions of the past. a new spirit of common interest is being cultivated. while we welcome every move toward better relations with other nations. let us  forget the example of courage and of faith. that passionate love of liberty. which is given in the life of cardinal mindszenty. at 82 he remains a symbol of the values and ideals which give enduring greatness to man. particularly that faith in god and in his purposes which marks the lives of those men and women who have suffered for the cause of truth and justice. for many centuries the hungarian people have displayed a deep religious faith. which has been central to their national identity. two years ago the world celebrated the 750th anniversary of the bulla aurea or golden bull. issued by the hungarian diet in 1222. the magyar equivalent of the english magna carta. that proud tradition of individual freedom and intense personal faith is crucial to the history of the hungarian people. it can be extinguished. the life and character of cardinal mindszenty. to whom the world pays tribute. are a living witness to the indomitable spirit of hungary. a spirit which can inspire the hearts of men and women everywhere with the counsel of scripture: "be strong and of good courage. fear .  be afraidfor the lord thy god. he it is that doth go with thee. he will  fail thee.  forsake thee"deuteroy 31:6.
. it is always a deep. personal tragedy when a child predeceases his mother and father. war. by its ugly nature. provides too many opportunities for such tragedy. and this. perhaps more than anything else. underscores its true cost. for corporal mcmahons mother and father. edna and charles. for his older sister. susan. for his younger brothers. scott and michael. words can possibly relieve the burden of grief they  bear. but i do want to extend my deepest sympathy to each of them and offer my most heartfelt prayers that god see them through these difficult days. vietnam
i appreciate that comment from my distinguished colleague. as my contribution to this debate on u.s. foreign policy. i intend to focus on the present situation in portugal and its implications for u.s. policy. both in terms of our specific relations with that country and wider policy perspectives. the stimulus for my remarks today comes from my recent visit to lisbon and subsequent monitoring of developments in that country. many americans are deeply concerned over the strains in our relations with portugal. that concern exists for strategic reasons--portugals role in nato. the u.s. base in the azores and portugals strategic location near the entrance to the mediterranean and the gateway to the south atlantic. and because of historical and cultural affinities we have with the portuguese people. it is feared by some that the move to the left in portugal. following the april revolutions of 1974. presages a communist takeover in that country and. thus. a further diminution of our security and that of our vital allies in western europe. i believe that such a fear. taken to its extremes. and the hardline attitudes that stem from it. are counterproductive in terms of developing an enlightened u.s. response to the evolving situation in portugal. contrary to certain views expressed by some observers. i do  believe portugal to be in an irreversible slide toward communism of the soviet variety or even necessarily totalitarianism of any variety. there is that danger. of course. but it would be erroneous and selfdefeating to assume that conditions in portugal have deteriorated to such an extent that a communist takeover is inevitable. if such an assumption were to guide our policies. as i fear may have been the casein certain instances. we would likely accelerate rather than arrest any movement to replace the former "dictatorship of the right" with an equally or more reprehensible "totalitarianism of the left." while a communist takeover is  inevitable. we can ige the fact that the portuguese communist party has gained in influence over the past year. a major reason for this is that it has recognized the highly nationalistic content of the "portuguese revolution" and has adopted its policies to conform to its nationalistic fervor. at least for the time being. the united states. on the other hand. has exhibited a less than adept understanding of the potency of portuguese nationalism. too often we have unnecessarily taken public positions that are perceived by the portuguese to run directly counter to their legitimate desire to control the course of their countrys political. ecoic and social development independent of coercive intrusion by outside forces. in doing so. we have allowed those groups in portugal holding views inimical to our interests and. indeed. to the desire for freedom of the portuguese people. to place themselves in a position of appearing to be the firmest supporters of nationalistic aspirations. the longterm success of the communists ability to graft their movement to the upsurge of nationalistic feeling is questionable. however. in light of the strong influence operating against their ascendancy. for instance. the anticommunist sentiment of the catholic church still remains strong in portugal although the influence of the church has been somewhat weakened because of its close identification with the previous rightist dictatorship. moderation rather than radicalism is still in evidence to a major degree in the upper military ranks according to u.s. embassy sources. and it is the attitudes of the military. especially those individuals who dominate the armed forces movement. the controlling factor in portugese politics. that still determine the course of events in portugal. however. one caveat must be entered here. u.s. officials have been told that the moderation of the upper military ranks is  paralleled at lower levels. it is rumored that some high military officials question whether the lower ranks would be willing to obey orders from their superiors that ran counter to the wishes of the radical left. nevertheless. it -still appears tenable to believe that the military. by and large. is still holding to the path of moderation. a third important factor inhibiting a communist seizure of power is the lack of widespread popular support for the communists as evidenced in the recent elections for a constituent assembly. while it must be ed that the decisions of such an assembly will  be binding on the armed forces movement. the elections nevertheless serve as a useful barometer of popular sentiment. about 91.7 percent of eligible voters participated in the election. 37.8 percent cast their votes for the socialist party. 26.4 percent voted for the popular democrats. and 7.6 percent voted for the social democratic center. thus. 71.8 percent of those voting cast their ballot for political parties committed to a communist pluralistic political system. the communists. on the other hand. received only 12.5 percent of the vote. and the party most closely alined with them received 4.1 percent. the impressive showing of the communist parties indicates a strong popular sentiment for the type of open society that was promised by the leaders of the april revolution. properly encouraged. both by portuguese committed to the original goals of the revolution and by sympathetic outside parties. such sentiment can hopefully be strengthened to forestall any communist seizure of power. understanding of what is taking place in portugal is impossible without a sensitivity to certain psychological factors that apparently motivate the leaders of the revolution. these include the intense nationalism i have already referred to. a pervading sense of regret regarding the colonial wars in africa. and an inclination among the portuguese leadership to believe that the third world is "morally superior" to either the western or soviet blocs. two results of the conjunction of the emotive forces emanating from these attitudes are a relatively high degree of distrust of major powers. including the united states. and an apparent fixation on developing close portuguese ties with third world countries. i believe that xehobic distrust of the major powers is a more accurate explanation of portuguese sensitivity to statements by u.s. officials that appear belligerant in tone than the common wisdom explanation that such sensitivity is attributable in the main to communist influence. looked at in the former rather than the latter light. one can more fully understand why portuguses officials. in my meetings with them. made constant reference to their dismay over certain remarks by the secretary of state. the secretary of defense. and members of congress that they construe as veiled threats or indirect attempts to interfere in the internal affairs of portugal. if the "xehobia explanation" is substantially correct. then we would do well to avoid unnecessary public statements tinged with bellicosity that serve useful purpose and only further alienate the portuguese leadership. verbal animosity does  strike me as the most useful of our diplomatic tools in coping with this situation. it should also be ed that the attitudes of the present leaders of portugal are determined to a certain extent by their experience in the african colonial wars. there they formulated their socialist ideals and attained a desire for close association with the third world. sent to suppress "socialist thinking and activities" in the territories. they apparently embraced many of the tendencies and concepts they initially sought to thwart. and they came to respect the depth of commitment to those ideals of the various liberation movements they fought against. there should be little wonder. then. that the portuguese leadership expresses its aspirations in terms more akin to the revolutionary rhetoric of the third world than the moderate tones of social democrats throughout western europe. but we err in assuming that such rhetoric necessarily indicates hardcore commitment to communism as we k it. we seem to be incapable of. or unwilling to. distinguish between communism and allegiance to soviet policy on the one hand. and a commitment to a reforming socialism on the other. the latter rather than the former is. i believe. the goal of the vast majority of the portuguese leadership. to the degree we fail to recognize this and shape our policies accordingly. we alienate ourselves from this majority. and we make the task of those who would usurp power in the name of social justice that much easier. what we need to develop in our own thinking is greater toleration and understanding for those who seek social progress for their peoples by methods  coincidental with our own. but who nevertheless eschew the temptation to subject their peoples to the tyranny of a closed repressive political system in their drive to attain their goals. this is the crucial distinction that should determine our approach  only to the portuguese situation but to many other experiments in social progress throughout the developing world. too often we focus on the rhetoric of those seeking social change. recognize similarities between it and communist propaganda. and fallaciously assume an inevitable unity between the two forces. this is simply  necessarily so. we must develop the capacity to recognize the numerous distinctions rather than focus myopically on the similarities if we are to avoid continuing and mounting setbacks in our relations with countries such as portugal who are striving to free themselves from the bondage of poverty.  acted courageously and decisively. whether he acted wisely can only be judged when all the facts are kn. i again reiterate my hope that the senator from california might allot time. in this debate. to examine the role of congress in the shaping of american foreign policy and what the proper balance should be between the executive and congress in this area. what can we effectively and intelligently do other than. of course. exercise the power of the purse. can and should we do more to get into the shaping of american foreign policy. moreover. how can we  work cooperatively with the executive in the determination of that foreign policy. these are foreign policy questions. which i hope that the senator from california can program into the remaining hours of this debate. in conclusion. i want to say again. that the distinguished senator from california has done a commendable job. it it impossible. of course. to solve any of our foreign policy problems in 2 days. as it is to analyze effectively the relationship between those problems and our defense budget levels. nevertheless. we can hope to identify what some of those specific problems are. i thank the senator from california for this opportunity to do so.
 at all.  at all. we are starting from scratch. we are trying to be sure that the nations businesses are safe for their employees. i think we can all agree that that is a laudable purpose. a laudable goal. that is like disagreeing with god and motherhood to say we do  want safe conditions for the people of this country.
regular order. . the yeas and nays resultedyeas 44. nays 41. as follows: [rollcall vote  417 leg.] yeas--44 abourezk jackson bellmon javits biden kennedy brooke mansfield burdick mathias case mcgee church mcgovern clark mcintyre cranston mondale eagleton moss fong muskie glenn nelson hart. gary w. packwood humphrey pastore iye pearson nays41 allen fannin baker ford bartlett garn beall goldwater bentsen hansen brock hartke buckley helms byrd. hollings harry f.. jr. hruska byrd. robert c. huddleston can johnston chiles laxalt curtis long dole magnuson eastland mcclure pell percy proxmire ribicoff schweiker scott. hugh stafford stevens stevenson symington taft tunney weicker williams metcalf morgan nunn randolph roth scott. william l. stennis stone talmadge thurmond tower young
. this amendment provides an additional $14 million for assistance to botswana and for regional training. the major portion of the amount-$10 millionwill be for development projects in botswana. the other $4 million will be used to provide technical training for african nationals from various countries. e of these funds will be utilized to provide assistance to mozambique or angola. during committee consideration of the bill. it was the feeling of the chairman of the foreign operations subcommittee and myself that we should  recommend appropriation of these funds until we had received specific project proposals. this requirement has  been fulfilled. and i have had the chance to review the general outlines of the activities to be funded by the $20 million. i am satisfied that the money can and will be spent in a manner consistent with our foreign assistance goals and national objectives regarding southern africa. although a fundamental prerequisite for appropriating these funds must be the assurance that they will be used effectively to promote development. there is. perhaps. an even more important dimension to this initiative. the united states is undertaking a new policy initiative in southern africa designed to head off a conflagration. in doing so. the objective is to support peaceful accommodations and human dignity for all the people in the region. we must hope and pray that we are successful in convincing the african peoples that we fully support these just aspirations. it is in our national interest to do so. our national ideals demand that we do so. should we be unsuccessful in convincing them that our rhetoric will be backed up by substantive action. i despair over the prospective fate of both blacks and whites in southern africa. time is running out for the compromises that can avoid a disaster of unimaginable proportions. i pray to god that such is  the case.  is the time to seize the initiative.  is the time to do what we can to help bring to an end the dominance of racial animosity and the violence that flows therefrom. we can have a significant impact on the situation. although we still are a society with many racial problems. we are the most dynamic society in seeking to resolve them. we k how hard the struggle is to do so. but we also k that it can be done. that is why we can make a unique contribution to the resolution of the crisis in southern africa if we are only wise egh to do so. i do  claim that this amendment alone will bring about a resolution of the crisis in that part of the world. individual initiative can do so. but i do k that it is a step in the right direction. it should be taken . i fervently hope that the vast majority of the senate agrees. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a summary of development priorities. constraints. and prospects of botswana.
. i shall always consider it my special privilege to have kn this genuinely gifted man. to have reveled. in his spendid art. to have learned from his quiet. determined humanism. he was an artist. yes. but he was so much more: a leader. a champion. a stalwart. he truly made a difference. to his devoted wife helen hayes. his daughter afrika hayes long. and his two granddaughters erica and zaida. all of whom gave him much comfort. our prayers are that god see them through this difficult loss of such a great and good man.
. i am pleased to enter in the record the remarks delivered by senator edward kennedy during ecumenical services in the ebenezer baptist church of atlanta. ga.. on january 15. 1977. senator kennedys remarks fully describe the magnificence of dr. king by explaining how this extraordinary man contributed so very much to this country. as a cosponsor of senate joint resolution 9. senator kennedy is one of over 50 senators who support the effort to establish january 15. dr. kings birthday. as a national day of commemoration in ho of this great american. i ask unanimous consent that senator kennedys remarks be printed in the record. . there being objection. the remarks were ordered to be printed in the record. as follows:
 of the virgifiia chapsent to have printed in the record at ter of the naacp. this point the very moving eulogy deliv- they had lived in falls church from 1910 ered at dr. hendersons funeral as well until 1965. when they moved to tuskegee to as an excellent article that appeared in live with a son. dr. james h. m. henderson. director of the carver research foundation the washington post of february 5. at tuskegee institute.
. i was privileged to k and to work with mrs. bennett and. like all who knew her. i shall miss her dearly. for there is replacing her in either our hearts or our minds. to her son. george barrett bennett. her devoted sister. mrs. ozeline b. wise. and her granddaughter. gail d. bennett. i offer my prayers that god is with them to comfort them in their time of loss. and for the benefit of those who could  share in the privilege of king her. i ask unanimous consent that the very eloquent obituary delivered at mrs. bennetts funeral be printed in the record.
. those of us who had the privilege of paying tribute to george bates at the requiem mass in salem can never forget the demonstration of respect and love for him on the part of his close friends and neighbors.  only was the church crowded but also the streets in the immediate vicinity and thousands more waited patiently along the mile and a half between the church and the cemetery. as has been so eloquently said here today. all who knew george respected and admired him. his forthright courage. his intelligent loyalty to his coun-. try. his state. and his district and his intelligent. discharge of his responsibilities won for him an outstanding place in the history of this body. we all miss him today and shall continue to miss him. i. too. wish to express in these words my deep sympathy for his wife and his children.
. dean phillips was a native of springfield. ohio. and his le character and devoted service were recognized and appreciated by his native state and by his many friends who knew him there as a boy and as a young man. as one of the younger members of the senate. i join with the senator from illis in expressing appreciation of the inspiration which has come from the daily prayers offered in the senate by dean phillips. one of the most inspiring features of service in the congress. i believe. is the opportunity each day to recognize the fact that our government is closely related to the principles of religion. it has been brought to us since the early days of the nation that there is a unity of purpose between religion and the principles of a free government. so it has been a privilege for those- of us who have gone through the trying days of the past to have had brought to us each day a message such as came from dean phillips. he has taught us that we depend upon the recognition of the brotherhood of man and the fatherhood of god in developing the sound principles of our time.
 tafts high regard for dr. pierce. and in recognition of the general high regard in which dr. pierce was held in the nation. he was selected as chaplain of the united states senate. he served with distinction in that capaeity from 1909 through 1913. his prayers were marked with .deep religious -feeling. coupled with the broadest tolerance and understanding of religion in its deepest and most inclusive sense. both in his prayers and in his sermons. he always has contributed to the clear thinking of those who have listened to him and to their faith in the fatherhood of god and the brotherhood of man. it is therefore fitting that there be recorded in the proceedings of the senate today an expression of appreciation of his contribution to the proceedings of this body and to the uplifting of the ideals of all who have had the privilege of king him or of listening to his interpretation of god to man.
. there must be a leadership that will draw us and draw all mankind forward. so that such a thing will  happen again. and so there may be an enduring peace. what we need at this time is a deep faith in our god and a deep faith in the men and the purposes of america. such a faith. widely shared. will make it impossible for such acts as those just reported to happen again. such a faith. translated into action. is the necessary foundation of peace on .earth. america is a nation created for service to god and man. our generation owes it to its forefathers and to its descendants alike to make that purpose secure. it is for us. with the quiet and invincible faith of those who have gone before. and of those who believe deeply in god and man. to dedicate ourselves anew to the purposes of america. that she and her purposes and ideals may endure  and forever.
. one of the most difficult and vital questions which will concern us in the years aheadand particularly perhaps even in the months aheadwill be the treatment of germanyand japan. it is of the utmost importance. therefore. that we have the clearest possible conception of the facts and the objects. and that the best common sense be used in connection with any approach to that problem. therefore. i wish to call to the attention of the senate a publication. which recently appeared. entitled "the control of germany and japan." published by the brookings institution. written by harold g. moulton and louis marlio. it considers with unusual clearness the ecoic. political. and military issues involved. it is much too long to be printed in the record. but i believe that attention should be called to it in connection with any consideration of this subject. it seems to me that there is also a human side to the treatment of the people of germany and japan which likewise requires the utmost common sense and balance on the part of those of us who will deal with that matter. along that line. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the appendix of the record an address entitled "religious ideals and the problem of germany." delivered by the reverend a. powell davies at all souls unitarian church in washington. d. c.. on october 29. 1944. the address slightly exceeds the twopage limit in length. i hold in my hand a written estimate from the public printer that the cost of printing the address will be $130. i ask unanimous consent that it be printed ifi the appendix of the record.
. i can resist saying a word on this occasion because of the situation under which the news of the death of senator maloney reached the senator from delaware and myself. yesterday morning we were in casablanca. th afric.f. and we received there the bulletin which we read on the way backand we arrived here this morningtelling of the death of senator maloney. the manner in which the sad news reached us deeply impressed upon me the thought that in senator maloney there was a man who fully appreciated the everincreasing responsibility and opportunity of the united states senate. and who sought.  only by his own example and personal endeavors but by his effort. to improve the machinery of the senate. to enable us to live up to the responsibilities of our time. i wish to join in the expressions of other senators of our deep appreciation of senator maloney. he was an outstanding example of a godfearing. conscientious. hardworking. capable. and publicspirited senator. he placed. the interest of god and country above all others. the nation will greatly miss his service. hip colleagues will deeply miss his friendly. modest. helpful comradeship. he did lasting ho to the senate. i deem it a great privilege to have been associated with him in some of his work here.
. there is institution more thoroughly suited to keeping our government close to our people than the exercise of the right of the people peaceably to assemble and to petition the government for a redress of grievances. this is emphasized in the first amendment to the constitution of the united states. as a part of our federal bill of rights. it is. accordingly. of special interest to the senate to find this right of petition freely exercised throughout the nation in support of a world order compact and an international organization for the better ordering of the interdependent life of nations. the preservation of peace with justice. and the furtherance of the general good of all peoples. such an expression is timely. for it reflects widespread interest  only ifi a general principle. but in the proposal for a general international organization which is pending today before the world. and which is intended to conform to the action taken by the senate on ember 5. the star of destiny will shine over san francisco on april 25. 1945. when the representatives of at least 44 peaceloving nations are expected to assemble to consider the establishment of a general international organization based upon the principle of the sovereign equality of all peaceloving states. open to membership by all such states. large and small. for the maintenance of international peace and security. two members of the senate will be associated with those representing the united states of america at san francisco. it is. therefore. fitting that there be communicated to them through petitions addressed to the senate the faith and the prayer of the people of the united states that progress shall be made at that conference toward securing every possible assurance that the infinite sacrifices of this war shall  have been made in vain. it is the prayer of the people of america that this nation and the world shall there agree upon a world order compact that will substantially improve the chances for the maintenance of international justice. peace. and security for many years to come. in support of such a world order compact more than 5.000 people. assembled in more than 100 communities. have framed their petitions on the model of the ancient mayflower compact. and have forwarded them to me for formal submission to the senate. so that the senate may fully appreciate the relationship of these petitions to the mayflower comiact. i recall to the senate the following language from that early document upon the basis of which our pilgrim forefathers established their government when in plymouth more than three centuries ago. that document read: in the name of god. amen. we. whose names are underwritten. the loyal subjects of our dread sovereign lord king james. * * * having undertaken for the glory of god and advancement of the christian faith and the ho of our king and country a voyage to plant the first colony in the thern part of virginia. do by these presents solemnly and mutually. in the presence of god and one aher. covenant and combine ourselves together into a civil body politic. for our better ordering and preservation and furtherance of the end aforesaid. and by virtue hereof do enact. constitute. and frame such just and equal laws. ordinances. acts. constitutions. and offices from time to time as shall be thought most meet and convenient for the general good of the colony. unto which we promise all due submission and obedience. in witness whereof we have hereunto subscribed our names at cape cod. * * * andominl 1620. with this compact before them. these pioneers of today. dedicated to the fatherhood of god and the brotherhood of man. present to the senate of the united states their individually signed petitions in the following form: in the name of god. amen. we. whose names are underwritten. loyal members of - church of -. do solemnly and mutually. in the presence of god and one aher. covenant and combine ourselves together to work for a just and cooperative world order. we pray that our nation shall help to establish an international organization for the better ordering of the interdependent life of nations. the preservation of peace with justice and the furtherance of the general good of all peoples. unto this great task we commit our wills and our ways. in witness whereof we have hereunto subscribed our names. andomini 194445. i ask that these petitions be received and filed as a part of the records of the senate of the united states and referred to the committee on foreign relations.
. senator taft was one of americas truly great men. he stood like a rock for what he believed was right. his leadership will be sorely missed by his colleagues in the congress. by his country. and by the world. he set a standard by which men will measure their public servants for generations to come. in our deep sorrow. our hearts go out to his beloved wife and family. with our prayers that god will sustain them.  and in the days that lie ahead.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a resolution adopted recently by the baptist laymen of the new jersey baptist convention at hightstown. n.j.. commending the work of the federal bureau of investigation and its director. mr. j. edgar hoover.
. i submit. for appropriate reference. a resolution to designate the eastern orthodox churches as a major faith in the united states. the eastern orthodox churches. by universal consent. constitute one of the major divisions of worldwide christianity. the eastern orthodox family of churches. third in membership among christian faiths. is surpassed by only four among the great christian religion of the world: the moslem. hindu. confucian. and buddhist beliefs. in the united states. membership in the various eastern orthodox churches is conservatively estimated. by the national council of churches. at 2.545.318. thus. in the united states. orthodoxy ranks fourth in membership among the broad religious groups. being surpassed only by the roman catholic. protestant. and jewish faiths. the eastern orthodox churches are a well defined group. both in the world generally. and in the united states. they claim a membership entitling orthodoxy to rank as a major faith. to those who may fear that the precedent here set may open the door to similar claims by numerous other faiths. it may be pointed out that other. among the great world faiths   recognized by the government of the united states. has a comparable membership in the united states. the proposed resolution does  envisage any expenditure of money. or any action in support or preference of the eastern orthodox faith. it is intended as public recognition of the fact that the american citizens of eastern orthodox faith constitute a substantial segment of our community. separate from the three major faiths hitherto recognized. and justly entitled to courteous consideration in any federal action or statement related to religious matters.
. the church which his eminence represents had official standing before the government of the united states. the designation of archbishop iakovos. the eastern orthodox primate of th and south america. as a participant in the inauguration proceedings was a partial recognition of his church as a major american faith. our bill would make this recognition complete. the eastern orthodox churches. by universal agreement. constitute one of the major divisions of worldwide christianity. the eastern orthodox family is surpassed in membership by only four great christian religions of the worldmoslem. hindu. confucian. and buddhist. among the worlds christian faiths. it is third in membership. in the united states. eastern orthodoxy ranks fourth in membership among religious groups. surpassed only by the protestant. roman catholic. and jewish faiths. last year. membership in the various eastern orthodox churches in this country was conservatively estimated by the national council of churches at 2.545.the latest figures available to me indicate that membership has  increased to at least 2.807.000. to those who may fear that the precedent here set may open the door to simila. claims by numerous other faiths. it may be pointed out that e of the faiths   designated by our government has a comparable membership in the united states. there are other reasons why the eastern orthodox church ought to be designated a major faith in the united states. several federal agencies have omitted eastern orthodoxy in projects in which protestant. catholic. and jewish faiths have been invited to participate. the legislatures of more than half the states in the union have passed resolutions recognizing eastern orthodoxy as a major religious faith. the proposed resolution does  envisage any expenditure of money. or any action in support or preference of the eastern orthodox faith. it is intended as public recognition of the fact that the american citizens of eastern orthodox faith constitute a substantial segment of our community. separate from the three major faiths already designated. and justly entitled to consideration in any federal action or statement related to religious matters.
if the senator will permit me to say soand i appreciate his asking me the question on his timei think . the question is. what are we trying to do. we are trying to eliminate discrimination where it exists. i believe it is a matter of common kledge in this country that church organizations do  discriminate on grounds of color. and to eliminate it from title vi does  seem to me a strange thing to do. i would be just as happy to leave it in. because i like verbal consistency. and consistency of subject is an important thing. it is proper. however. to consider the concern of religious organizations lest what they regard as their proper area of personnel administration be interfered with or jeopardized. therefore i find inconsistency between elimination of this provision from title vii and the inclusion of it in the other sections.
the senator from virginia is most gracious. i did  hear the entire statement of the senator. i only perked up my ears. as one would be inclined to do. when i heard my name mentioned. whatever was said first. i can comment on. but i am sure the senator would permit this correction: i did  say that it would be all right for a methodist to discriminate against catholics. i do  think one should discriminate against anybody. i say it would  offend the senator from new jersey very muchand perhaps i shall be ripped apart everywhere for saying thisto have a methodist feel that in the strengthening of his organization he would like to spend money to hire methodists. so long as methodist people are admitted to the methodist church without discrimination on the ground of color.
. final resolution of the civil rights issue will come in the community. i wish to call attention to one example of such community action in my own state of new jersey. in newark. a group of young people associated with the congregation bnai jeshurun have begun this year a remedial tutorial program aimed at helping about 20 negro boys and girls in elementary and high school subjects. the members of the temple youth group are themselves high school students. they give of their free time on saturdays in order to share the classrooms of their temple with negro children from the neighborhood. the project has met with a deservedly wide response. both in and out of the state. and other such programs are  under way. for example. in new jersey alone. congregations in trenton. teaneck. bayonne. river edge. east orange. and elberon have begun or plan similar tutorial programs. i ask unanimous consent that two newspaper articles describing the newark program be printed in the record.
. today marks the 17th anniversary of the birth of israel as an independent nation. in recognition of this occasion. we are hoed today by the presence of rabbi joachim prinz. who presented the invocation at todays session. accompanied by a group of distinguished citizens representing both national and new jersey organizations within the jewish community. with each passing year. israels dramatic success story becomes more impressive. the 17th anniversary of israels independence is a significant occasion. because this small nation has successfully maintained its freedom in spite of the hostility of many of its neighbors. it is essential to all free nations that israels independence be maintained. insofar as i can affect it. the u.s. government will continue to use its influence to assure that this progressive. pioneering nation remains free to preserve and strengthen its tradition of democracy.
. on behalf of myself and senator javits. of new york. i submit. for appropriate reference. a resolution to designate the eastern orthodox church as a major faith in the united states. in view of the size and growth of the eastern orthodox churches in this country. i find it surprising that we did  long ago formally recognize these churches as a major religious faith. the most recent figures available show a membership over 3.2 million in the eastern orthodox family of churches in this country. in the united states. it is surpassed in membership only by the protestant. roman catholic. and jewish faiths. only four among the great christian religions of the world have more members than the eastern orthodox faith: the moslems. hindu. confucian. and buddhist beliefs. there is universal recognition that eastern orthodoxy. with over 140 million members throughout the world. ranks as a major faith. to those who may fear that the precedent here set may open the door to similar claims by numerous other faiths. it may be pointed out that eastern orthodox membership in this country far exceeds that of any other faith   recognized as a major faith by the government of the united states. the proposed resolution does  envisage any expenditure of money. or any action in support or preference of the eastern orthodox faith. it is intended as public recognition of the fact that the american citizens of eastern orthodox faith constitute a substantial segment of our community. separate from the three major faiths hitherto recognized. which is justly entitled to courteous consideration in any federal action or statement related to religious matters.
the justification for giving a geographic miity a veto upon a majority voice seems to me to be greater justification than might be argued for giving a racial miity or a religious miity a veto. why give a man who lives on 100 acres a greater voice when we do  give more than one vote. let us say. to one jew. or one catholic. or one member of the dutch reformed church. or one presbyterian-
the reason i ask these questions is that the need for an unimpaired grand canyon. all protected within a national park. is great. the value of the grand canyon to this nation was well stated by the english author j. b. priestley. in 1937: i have heard rumors of visitors (to the grand canyon) who were disappointed. the same people will be disappointed at the day of judgment. in fact. the grand canyon is a sort of landscape day of judgment. it is  a showplace. a beauty spot. but a revelation. the colorado river. which is powerful. turbulent. and so thick with silt that it is like a saw. made it with the help of the erosive forces of rain. frost. and wind. and some strange geological accidents. and all these together have been hard at work on it for the last seven or eight million years. it is the largest of the eighteen canyons of the colorado river. is over two hundred miles long. has an average width of twelve miles. and is a good mile deep. it is the worlds supreme example of erosion. but this is  what it really is. it is. i repeat. a revelation. the colorado river made it. but you feel when you are there that god gave the colorado river its instructions. it is all beethovens nine symphonies in stone and magic light. even to remember that it is still there lifts up the heart. and . i trust that when the time comes. and it must come soon. we will all be "on the staff of the grand canyon." and that we can all at least fulfill the trust theodore roosevelt laid on us: i want to ask you to do one thing in connection with the grand canyon . . . leave it as it is. you can improve on it. the ages have been at work on it and man can only mar it . . . what you can do is keep it for your children. your childrens children and all who come after you.
. i was the cosponsor with senator church of the amendment which unfortunately was defeated on may 16. by having added to it a requirement for a ceasefire. it was practically identical to the amendment which we are in the process of adopting today.
. this year the episcopal church of the holy inents in hoboken. n.j.. is celebrating its 100th anniversary. the church has a distinguished history. and i am glad to ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a letter from john j. heaney. chairman of the centennial committee. describing some of the background surrounding this occasion.
. i ask unanimous consent that the letter from rabbi fields and mr. landis be printed in the record together with the statement of the 34 leningrad jews. i am omitting their names so as  to open up the possibility of increased persecution.
i think that this action by nays 47. this body and by congress as a whole will be a very wise and salutary warning to stop. look. and listen before we get abourczk too far down the path of misusing the allen organizations of the united nations for bayh political purposes. there is one united bible biden nations organization. the general as- burdick sembly. which is a political organization. byrd. the others are  supposed to be that. harry f. i hope that people there will come to byrd. robe can thfr senses before these useful and val- church uable agencies. having been misused. clark are destroyed. cranston eagleton
. i wish to congratulate lithuanians throughout the world on the occasion of the 59th anniversary on february 16. of the declaration of independence of lithuania. the origins of the lithuanian state go back to the 12th century and her cultural traditions continue to flourishdespite the heavy hand of soviet rule. as a member of the helsinki commission. i especially welcome the recent formation of a lithuanian group to monitor compliance with the helsinki accords in the u.s.s.r. on december 1. 1976. in moscow. five lithuaniansviktoras petkus. a religious activist. etian finkelstein. a jewish activist and physicist. father karolis garuckas. a priest in an eastern lithuanian village. tomas venclova. a ed poet. and ona lujanskaiteposkiene. a writer and veteran of soviet labor campsannced the formation of a lithuanian helsinki group and denced repressive measures against the lithuanian catholic churchthe banishing of two bishops. julijonas steponavicius and vincentas sladkevicius. to small villages outside their dioceses. further repressive measures against religion in lithuania were outlined in a new soviet law subjecting religious societies to strict control by secular authorities. thereby violating the helsinki accord. hoping to diminish the effectiveness of the group. the soviet authorities "requested" that tomas venclova leave the soviet union. in the near future. mr. venclova will appear before our helsinki commission as a witness and i look forward to his testimony to provide information on the newest developments in civil liberties and culture in lithuania. once again. let me extend my best wishes today to all lithuanian americans and let us all work together so that lithuanians wherever they are. will be free to practice their religious. cultural. and political rights as they see fit.
 carter submitted last week to the commission security and cooperation in europe. commonly kn as the helsinki commission. ed in discussing the human rights provisions of the basket three of the helsinki accord: while accepting the third basket at the helsinki summit. the soviet union and its allies have since tried to diminish the full extent of its obligation upon them. they have advanced arguments and interpretations which seek to blunt the purpose of basket three through token and selective implementation of its provisions. this can only raise serious doubts about the soviets intentions and attitudes in general.  only toward their own people. but toward other nations. therefore i am pleased that the administration is considering withholding export licenses for sophisticated computers to the soviet union. i hope the u.s. government. and our allies. hold up export licenses for advanced computers and other techogies until discussions in belgrade and other forums give us a clearer idea of moscows intentions. in the specific context of the belgrade meeting. i also urge the u.s. delegation and the delegations of the other nations to stand firm in insisting that the agenda to be worked out this month deal with the implementation of the 1975 helsinki accords. the warsaw pact nations are expected to try to put the focus on new proposals dealing with eastwest relations. they must  be allowed to sweep under the rug the matter of violations and cases affecting the lives of thousands of persons. if the warsaw pact nations try to do so. the west must  allow diplomatic niceties to keep them from dealing with the matter as frankly and bluntly as necessary. only thus can we hope to build a realistic basis for confidence and cooperation between the east and the west. in a statement released this weekend. on the forthcoming review sessions at belgrade. the 15 member u.s. commission on security and cooperation in europe. of which i am a member. said: the commission believes that the conclusions to be drawn from the review must form the basis for the participants discussion of proposals for further implementation of the final act. there is advantage to be gained from arousing fresh hopes about the future without careful examination of the past. the recent past includes the soviet governments efforts to make it increasingly difficult and dangerous for dissidents and wouldbe emigrants to maintain contacts with foreigners. especially diplomats and journalists. this was dramatized when. on june 1. anatoli scharanskys mother was informed that her son was to be charged with treason. one can easily surmise when the soviet government made this shocking move almost on the eve of the belgrade conference. scharanskys excellent command of english made him a key link between jewish activists and soviet dissidents and western newsmen and diplomats. if on the eve of the belgrade conference there is such a flurry of repressive acts. what will happen when international attention slackens. the efforts by soviet jews to emigrate. partly as a result of the antisemitism in the soviet union. has attracted considerable attention and has been one of the longest struggles in the human rights arena in the soviet union. there also are other groups affected. including soviet germans seeking to emigrate to west germany and the crimean taters who are trying to return to their historic areas in the crimea. severe repressions including long prison sentences have often resulted. i am indebted to the staff of the helsinki commission. of which i am a member. for compiling the following summary. the movement for freer emigration continues to grow. perhaps most spectacularly among protestant fundamentalist sects. such as the pentecostal and the evangelical baptists. a member of the soviet pentecostalist movement who finally managed to emigrate to the west. evgeny bressenden. in recent testimony before the commission on security and cooperation in europe. described the systematic discriminationincluding denial of access to higher educationand persecutionssuch as long prison terms for membership in "unregistered" church groups--to which fundamentalist christians have long been subjected in the soviet union. in the face of all this. many pentecostalists have decided that the only solution is for them to emigrate from the u.s.s.r. to any country in which they can practice their religion freely. in order to protect the rights of christians in the soviet union. a christian committee was formed by three members of the russian orthodox churchfather gleb yakunin. archdeacon varsoi khaibulin and viktor kapitanchukon december 27. 1976. this committee. although composed of russian orthodox believers. pledged itself to defend the rights of all oppressed christians regardless of deination and works closely with moscow branch of the public group to promote observance of the helsinki accords in the soviet union. father gleb yakunin  only has been active in the newly formed christian committee. but he. together with lev regelson. has written several open letters protesting the situation of the russian orthodox church to the world council of churches. such activities resulted in an attack on yakunin. regelson. and two other russian crthodox dissentersaleksandr ogorodnikov and father dmitri dudkoin the april 13 and 20 issues of the literaturnaya gazeta. mr. bresenden has submitted to the csce commission a list of 26 pentecostalists and 72 evangelical baptists who. as of late 1976. were kn to be imprisoned in the u.s.s.r. for offenses such as repeatedly taking their childrcn to "unregistered" church meetings. aher new area of activity among soviet dissidents. is the formation of a group affiliated with the public group to promote observance of the helsinki accords in the u.s.s.r.-the working committee to investigate abuses of psychiatry for political purposesformed in january 1977. in the initial anncement of this committee. they point to seven cases of forcible confinement to a psychiatric hospital for political freethinking which had occurred in the previous 3 months. on march 14. 1977. the kgb conducted an illegal night search of the apartment of one of the committee members23yearold aleksandr podrabinekand confiscated his book manuscript. punitive medicine. on which he had been working for 3 years. the kgb also took all the documents for that book. including the case histories of more than 200 political prisoners who are being held in involuntary confinement for "treatment" in psychiatric hospitals in the u.s.s.r. today. aher method which the soviet authorities use against dissident activity is the apparent fabrication of criminal charges. at the end of may malva landa was tried in court. she is a 58yearold retired geologist and founding member of the moscow branch of the public group to promote observance of the helsinki accords in the u.s.s.r.. and was sentenced to 2 years in exile to a remote area of the soviet union for arsonthe authorities claim that she set fire to her own apartment on december 18. 1976. the wife and infant son of zviad gamsakhurdia. leader of the georgian branch of the public group to promote observance e the helsinki accords in the u.s.s.r.. were evicted from their house by the kgb after gamsakhurdias arrest on april 7. it was only several days later that they were allowed to return to their home.
i do  recall. . at his funeral. as senators k. when the most gracious and meaningful remarks by his pastor included a reference to the fact that the service had gone on for an unusually long time. that could  have been avoided. it would have been much longer if everyone who wanted to have a piece of it had been allowed to do so. but we remember the minister saying that there had  been a longer service within his memory in that church since the last time that senator humphrey had occupied the pulpit. it was possible to say that kind of thing at the funeral of a man like hubert humphrey and to give offense. to cause hing but gentle smiles and happiness and gratitude for his memory. he will live long in our hearts.
. i want to congratulate lithuanians everywhere on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the declaration of independence of lithuania on february 16. 1918. the origins of the lithuanian state reach back to the 12th century. today. her rich cultural and religious traditions still are strong. even in the face of russification. as a member of the commission on security and cooperation in europe. i am watching the difficult course of human rights in soviet lithuania. unfortunately. most of what i see there is new evidence of the dismal soviet record of respect for fundamental human freedoms. flying in the face of their helsinki promises. on august 23. 1977. the soviet authorities arrested one of the lithuanian helsinki watch group. viktoras petkus. since then. there has been further news of him. the continuing bravery of lithuanians in the face of persecution is revealed by new "illegal" uficial publicationsin addition to the wellk chronicle of the lithuanian catholic church. five new journals have recently appeared. among those paying the high penalties imposed by the soviets for participation in the distribution or writing of these journals are: niiole sadunaite. who has completed her 3year term in a labor camp and is  in exile. matulionis. lapienis and pranckunaite who in july 1977 were all sentenced to camp. and yet the soviet authorities continue to insist that freedom of conscience exists in the u.s.s.r.. a document of the lithuanian helsinki watch group reveals the awful conditions under which former political prisoners are obligated to livemany of them can return to lithuania. let alone to their native cities. perhaps the most terrible human document of the group relates to the lithuanian political prisoner. algirdas zypre. who. after the end of his 15year camp sentence in 1973. has been held in various psychiatric hospitals and subjected to forcible drug "treatment." what had zypre done to make the authorities suspect his state of mental health. he complained that the copy of his court sentence had been forged and did  agree with the verdict which had been made public by the court. he has been told by psychiatrists that as long as he persists in this view. he will continue to be "cured" by massive injections of drugs. the problem of family reunification is particularly acute in the baltic republics. since so many people fled from soviet rule after world war ii. perhaps for that reason. the soviet authorities are particularly intransigent in this area. even in regard to requests for family visits from the old and the ill. one such person. the reverend pranas masilionis. 75. has been trying to visit his brothers and sisters in the united states for 7 years. during that time. he has sent four appeals to the lithuanian minister of the interior. and. as too often happen with requests of this kind. they have quite simply been iged. what possible threat to soviet state security can be posed by an old priest visiting his family in the united states once before he dies. all in all. it is hard for me to understand why the soviets continue to compile such an abysmal record of respect for human freedoms in lithuania and in all their other "republics." however. i do want to commend all lithuanianamericans who demonstrate their continuing concern for their native land by supporting by means of letters and proests to the soviet authorities the fate of those brave men and women who continue to struggle for those basic human freedoms which americans all too often take for granted.
 on the voice of israel program. and perhaps even better kn to the members of the house and to the country as the author of the  1 fiction best seller peace of mind. dr. liebman was a sweet and gentle soul. a man with a great mind. touched with the sublime spirit. only 6 months ago he married me at my own temple in new york city. so that the members can understand the depth of my own feeling about hispassing. this great and distinguished spiritual leader. this fine american has been taken from our midst in the prime of life. dr. liebman was born in hamilton. ohio. in 1907. after graduating from hebrew union college and after being ordained. he went to the hebrew university in jerusalem in 1930. then he was called successively to the pulpit of the temple at lafayette. ind.. and to the k. a. m. temple in chicago. where he served for 5 years. and was called from there to temple israel in 1939. dr. liebman had the unique distinction of being professor of jewish philosophy.and literature at andovernewton theological seminary. a protestant seminary. last fall he expressed hislove for his own congregation by refusing to leave to go to the great temple emanuel in new york city. i would like to read as his finest epitaph and finest heritage the concluding phrase of an editorial in this mornings new york herald tribune. paying tribute to dr. liebman. it says: death. which has ended his labors. will  end the power of his written word to guide and sustain men of all faiths. i append the text of the editorial:
i had a wire this morning from dr. walter w. van kirk. executive director. department of international justice and good will. national council of churches in the united states of america. who is a distinguished church leader. stating that this bill. in his opinion. badly needed amendment. i have a similar wire from the national lutheran council. also i would like to ask the gentleman whether he does  agree that there are at least two major changes in this law far more substantive than the gentleman has mentioned. one of which puts a quota limitation of 100 on negroes coming from the british colonies in the caribbean. a change in existing law. and the other one uzes 50 percent of the quota for people with special skillswhich is a very great change in the existing quota law.
. i. too. would like to join my colleagues in the sponsorship of the resolution and in urging its adoption. i have spoken many times on this subject on the floor of the senate. i desire to make one brief point today. which i believe is vital and important to all of us: in the minds of the harassed and persecuted people who repaired to israel. there have been hours of great agony and doubt as to the survival and endurance of their state.  that 10 years have gone by. and  that the state of israel is more secure. viable. and independent than ever. i think it fair to say that israel is  established permanently in the firmament of nations. the session of the senate today was opened by prayer by the distinguished rabbi who heads the american zionist committee for public affairs. which is concerned with the work of those who are interested in israel. he has spoken with many of us on many other occasions. echoing his prayer. let me say that i believe we have the right to hope and expect that even those whose hearts are torn with adverse feelings with respect to the establishment of this state. must  recognize that it is fixed in the firmament of nations. to make its contribution as its destiny may allow. and that it should be permitted to do so in peace. for these people. who occupy this small amount of land. have suffered and endured unbelievably for centuries upon centuries. their sufferings were summed up in the torment of the holocaust which hitler let loose upon europe. with the death of six million of their coreligionists in that holocaust. the world is too prone to forget so deep a tragedy. the very least that men can doand this includes men of good will who are in the arab states. which have a tremendous tradition of humanitarianismis to let israel at long last enjoy this little bit of peace and security in their own land. let me point out that in these 10 years the fears that there would be an overexpansion in israel. because of the pressure of immigration. have come to naught. there has been such pressure on the borders of the state. on the contrary. there has been shown a tremendous capability for living within those borders and for absorbing everyone who wished to come to israel. that capability exists in great egh measure to assure that in the decades ahead there will be pressure to move out from israels borders. also. there has been a viability in the government of israel. the arab miity have enjoyed the privilege of firstclass citizenship. a standard of living has been established in israel that is a model and a showcase for the free countries in that area of the world. israel has been a true ally of every institution of the free world in that part of the globe. everything that was said by those of us who pleaded for aid for israel in the mutual security program in 1951. 1952. and 1953. has come true. israel has been worth more than her weight in gold in terms of reliability. and of value to the interests of the free nations in a strifetorn part of the world. i think the senate has a right to adopt the resolution with a deep confidence that we shall be doing one of the greatest humanitarian acts which mankind has ever kn. and also doing an affirmative act in the interest of the free world. and in aiding the national security of our own country.
subsequently said: . i ice from reading the report on this bill. which is a magnificent tribute to 4 very brave men whose memory will live for as long as our country endures. namely. the 4 chaplains who went down with the dorchester in one of the most heroic acts of all time in american history. that the chaplains are  identified by faith. by the strange stroke of providence when they made the supreme sacrifice their faith illustrated to a remarkable degree what we call brotherhood in this country. in behalf of which many organizations. including the national conference of christians and jews. the national catholic welfare conference. and other church organizations and worldwide services. and a host of other organizations. are spending so much energy and money to convey the message to the american people. i believe the record should show that these chaplains represented three great faiths. two were protestant. one catholic. and one jewish. to ho this concept of common sacrifice in a cause common to all men of all faiths. the highest decoration in our countrys list of decorations is being awarded posthumously. it is fitting that the record should show that they represented three great faiths in our country. in order that their consecration may stand  only as a contribution to the country. but to the brotherhood of all mankind. regardless of faith.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a resolution adopted by the department of christian social relations of the episcopal diocese of new york. relating to educational facilities in the public schools.
i could  help speaking just a word about lewis strauss. who is a very distinguished new yorker. whom i have kn for a long time in community and religious affairs. he was for a long time a leader in a prominent temple in new york city. i also knew him as an admiral in the navy. when i dealt with him while i was in the army. it is deeply gratifying for a fellow new yorker to hear the praise which admiral strauss so justly deserves. and to hear his services to humanity and to the nation signalized by such distinguished leaders as members of the senate. hing would please him more. hing would be a greater recompense to r. man like admiral strauss. than the fine words of praise which are an ackledgment of the critically vital service which he has rendered to his country. i wish for him in the future happiness and also continuing success in the services which he will render to our government and the people of our country.
. i had  intended to discuss the bill at this stage. because i felt the debate as between the socalled study bill and the substantive matters which are raised by the house bill would turn upon other arguments. some of which have been made before in this debate. for example. there is a difference of opinion. as i understand. whether. as a matter of fact. the methods prescribed by the house bill are demonstrably humane. and there are various other questions. at the very outset of the discussion of the committee amendment. which is under consideration. and about which i thought the debate would be on totally different grounds. a question was raised on which i have some special kledge. hence. i feel impelled to share with the senate my information upon that subject. i think it is important that every member of the senate. when he votes. shall understand the situation. inasmuch as the question has been raised. so i speak.  in a sense of advocacy. but in the desire to put before the senate a state of facts about which i feel the senate needs to have kledge. the subject having been broached. as everybody ks. i come from an area of the united states in which there is a very large population interested in the religious aspects of slaughtering. i. myself. as everyone also ks. am of the jewish faith. i have had some personal experience with this whole matter. first. there is doubt of the fact that humaneness in the slaughtering of animals is a longstanding tradition of the hebrews. going back to the time of moses. it was referred to in the senate today. i think very graciously. when the senator from oregon pointed out that one of the qualifications which moses had which made him find favor in the eyes of the lord was his kindness to animals. we are all familiar with the rebellion of moses against the cruelty practiced on animals in those days by the egyptians. this tradition came down through history. and was advocated by various prophets and great leaders in my faith. down to the time of maimonides. almost within reach of modern times. who repeated all these precepts and traditions. hence it is that one of the orthodox hebrew faith will  eat meat which has  been slaughtered according to very carefully designed ritualistic practices. those have all been testified to in the greatest detail before the senate committee. i think it is fair to say. and i think the senator from minnesota will agree. it was demonstrated that the methods of slaughter which are called shehitah. or kosher slaughter. represent humane methods of slaughter which have been developed through the centuries with the greatest ritualistic care. and with careful attention to the character as well as the qualifications of those who engage in the practice. and who have a training which is equivalent to that of the rabbinate. and who in many cases are themselves rabbis.
. the practice in respect of slaughtering which is called shehitah has had for centuries the sanction of jewish law which was premised upon humaneness. few members were present in the chamber. unfortunately. when i explained the matter in great detail earlier. suffice it to say. as early as the time of moses. the bible reports that moses had his first altercation with the egyptians of his time because of their cruelty to domestic animals. and that one of the reasons the lord loved moses. according to the old testament. was his kindness to animals. so the practice came down in terms of law with respect to a method of slaughter. long before such a thing was thought of by other peoples. it was a method of slaughter which was humane. surrounded with careful preparation of the knife and a perfectly amazing understanding of anatomy. in terms of the days in which this practice came about. the procedure. as well as anybody could devise. was quickly and without pain to kill the animal to be slaughtered. the men who practiced this art were either so trained as to be qualified as rabbis. or were actually rabbis. a very careful check was made upon the duration of the license they had to practice the art. the important thing is that representatives of the orthodox groups who testified before the committee had very deep convictions on this subject. representing the tradition of centuries. the conviction is this: it has been the tradition for centuries that the first area of suppression of jews has always been the area of suppressing the ritualistic slaughter practice. this goes back centuries. and reached a climax in the period of adolf hitler. when among the first things tackled in order to suppress jewish life was the jewish practice of slaughtering. in other daysand even todayagitators and demagogs of one kind or aher. in their drive against the ritualistic slaughter. have identified themselves with humane slaughter. whereas. as a matter of fact. the method of kosher slaughter itself is highly humane. that was the effect of the testimony before the committee. the orthodox groups feel that the very essence of our society is religious freedom. the moment the government is on the positive or negative side. we are capable of impairing the complete freedom of the practice of religion. some government inspector. some government regulation. some intrusion. even on the negative side. will manifest itself with respect to the practice of this freedom. that is why i voted as i did upon the question before us. in the hope that the intervening period of time could be devoted to careful study and analysis. which would satisfy the deeply held conviction of a small miity. nevertheless. small miities in this country are very dear to us. and we exert ourselves to help them.  we come to the essence of the proposal of the senator from minnesota. the bill contains provisions with respect to kosher slaughter both in section 2 and section 6. section 6 is a broad statement of principles.. section 2 is the specific operation of the law in respect to the mechanics of humane slaughter. as defined by the bill. the bill does  deal with handling. as a matter of fact. the exchange of letters which appears in the house record. and which may appear in the senate recordi do  k exactly what the senator from minnesota placed in the recorddemonstrate that handling was  within the contemplation of the authors of the exempting amendment in the other bodyat least.  to the extent that it was translated into the language of the bill. therefore. faced with the parliamentary situation that was before us. in the endeavor to make the exemption crystal clear. i have offered this amendment. which the senator from minnesota has very graciously accepted.
i reciprocate the senators expression about me. which i deeply appreciate. i have kn the senator from ohio a long time. i myself have a very deep affection for the senator. i should like to point out i am  given here. . i hope. will i ever be given. to caviling about a particular incident and trying to make it appear odd or embarrassing to the speaking member of congress. i do  think such conduct advances our cause. let us for the moment consider foreign aid. and  civil defense. for the purpose of this illustration. often when a great national effort is referred to an insignificant. peripheral development. such. for instance. as the use of tuxedos for attendance at funeral parlors in greece. is pointed out. with the effect of discrediting a whole program of emous and vital national interest. when i replied. on a previous occasion. to the senator from ohioand i may feel impelled to reply againi did it only in the spirit to which i have referred. i think it is important that we keep this issue in proper proportion and perspective. we understand that there may be waste or acts of stupiditywho is immune from them.-but we should  allow waste or stupidity attaching to certain details to prejudice a program of fundamental and very deep and important concern to the national interest. matter what may be said about civil defense. i deeply believe. even if only because of the effect on the morale of the american people. it is vital that they have less dread of hbombs and abombs falling on this country. which. god willing. we hope will  happen. yet we may have to face up to such a situation if we are determined to stand by the cause of freedom. i am interested in what the senator from ohio has said about putting civil defense in military hands. such a proposal would  disturb me. but that question involves a far more definite and fundamental discussion. in terms of keeping our eye on the target. than do the pinpoint details in which there may have been stupidity or waste involved. i compliment the senator from ohio. if he finds there has been waste. he should bring the matter into the open. but always it should be emphasized that it is a mi consideration. the major question is. what are we to do with regard to a great national program which is essential to national survival.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point as a part of my remarks a letter to the editor of the washington post. published in the june 4. 1959. issue of that newspaper. on the editorial page. under the heading "mr. strauss integrity." the letter is signed by rabbi man gerstenfeld. minister of the washington hebrew congregation.
it is the responsibility of the majority to bring to the floor a bill on which we can act. i have said this on other occasions. even when my own party was in control. the democrats won a 2to1 victory in the last election. they won a great victory. god bless them. but the democrats have to do something about it. they can just win victories and  do anything. they have to do something.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a resolution adopted by the official board of the fairlington methodist church. of alexandria. va.. endorsing the "visit the united states of america" program.
. i join with my colleagues in mourning the loss of a great public servant. a loyal friend. a warmhearted human being. one who was the friend of all the people of the united states. dick neuberger was a man of the highest character. his work in the senate typifies his greatness. his creativeness. and his usefulness to his fellow men. what has been said so eloquently by our colleagues this morning bears that out. dick neuberger was  simply a conservationist. he was a human being. he was extremely desirous of utilizing his very great talents and his great heart to conserve human values. and enle material values only in order that human values might be more certainly preserved. this i think he showed in the senate by taking positions which were in accord with his fundamental liberal philosophy. his thirst was after justice. and he followed wherever that path led. he was a just man. and this was really the hallmark of his life. one could ever speak about dick neuberger. his work. his life. and his duty. without speaking about maurine. who was inseparably connected to him. she is a gracious lady. to use the language of an older day. she is  only gracious. but was good to him. as well as dedicated herself to the same purposes to which he was dedicated. indeed. i believe that to maurine could be applied. with the greatest of propriety. the biblical phrase "loving kindness." i saw her at very close range in london. at the atlantic conference. last year. where she represented dick with such charm. such feeling. and such ability. that s he truly bespoke his views and his mind. so as to impress all who were there and to leave them permanently in her debt. i think it would be fitting particularly for me. because i believe it represents the hallmark of the common faith i shared with dick neuberger. to read as a part of my remarks. upon the occasion of his very sad passing. at so very young an age. the words from the old testament prophet micah. in chapter 6: hear ye  what the lord saith: arise. contend thou before the mountains. and let the hills hear thy voice. and in the eighth verse of chapter 6: he hath shewed thee. 0 man. what is good. and what doth the lord require of thee but to do justly. and to love mercy. and to walk humbly with thy god. this was richard neuberger.
. i had the pleasure of greeting the rabbi this morning on behalf of both my colleague and myself. and i should like to state that reverend dr. mark delivered one of the finest and most moving prayers we have heard in the senate. i join with my colleague. on behalf of our state. in paying tribute and ho to this very distinguished spiritual leader.
 and director of chaplaincy services. a testimonial dinner was held in rabbi gordons ho by his colleagues in new york on march 24 to mark his many years of high services which was attended by gov. nelson a. rockefeller and many other civic and religious leaders. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the remarks of gov. nelson a. rockefeller on this occasion:
. it is a privilege to join in the tributes being paid today to such an old friend as karl mundt. when i first came to the house of representatives. in 1947. i had the privilege of serving on the committee on foreign affairs. of which karl mundt was a very distinguished member. and saw much of his work there. perhaps my relationships with karl mundt illustrate something in which i deeply believe. he and i do  see eye to eye on many issues. he is more conservative. as the world defines that word. than i am. that may be attributable to the places from which we come. to our origins and backgrounds. or to our philosophies. but there is one thing i wish to say to karl: i thank god he is here. i hope he will continue to be a member of the senate. because i have illusions about my own omniscience. i believe this amalgam of ideas speaks eloquently for the security of our nation and the peace of the world. i have seen karl work most effectively. i admire him most for his great dedication to the cause of education. especially higher education. i remember very well his pioneering of the smithmundt bill. which has turned out to be probably as effective a program in the international field as we have ever carried on in the long range. i hope very much that we can communicate with the same comprehensiveness in many other aspects of the technical assistance program of the united states. and get as much private enterprise participation in it. this only adds to the concept which i have of the service rendered by karl. both to his state and to the country. in addition. we all k that both the house and senate are great clubs. karl has been an unfailing friend. warm and courteous.  so long ago. when i had a very keen desire to serve on the subcommittee on national policy machinery of a new committee which i had joined. though i was the newest member of the committee. and though he knew in advance that he might  agree with what i might advocate in that committee. he was most eager to see that my desire was realized. because he though i could be of some use in that connection. it is the way a man lives and performs that shows his work. i can give personal testimony as to the distinction with which the senior senator from south dakota has performed. i am glad of this opportunity to express my affection and friendship for an old and valued colleague.
of course. i favor the amendment completely. i am sorry that the senator from colorado and the senator from rhode island . who has been a stalwart figure in consideration of this subject. were  on the floor when i spoke on my own time. i pointed out that all of us k the situation. we k that the joint resolution is before the senate. and only hangs by a thin hair. if it is amended as it should be amended. it will be snapped out. and there will be joint resolution at all. i pledged myselfand i was joined by other senatorsthat this is the last time i am going to take it. hereafter. when a measure of this kind comes before the senate. i shall do what my conscience dictates in terms of making it a decent immigration bill. while i am on my feet. i have the reference to the zellerbach commission. which is composed of a group of very distinguished people. including hon. eugenie anderson. former u.s. ambassador to denmark. the right reverend james a. pike. the bishop of california. protestant episcopal church of california. and . crown zellerbach corp. as chairman of the commission. these distinguished people say that the plight of the incamp and outofcamp refugees is just about the same. the outofcamp refugees are. if anything. worse off than those in the camp. and the commission makes the estimate that for everyone in the camp there are 2/2 outside the camp. these are only european refugees. and  refugees in the pacific triangle and other parts of the world. we all k the situation. we k it well. and i think the time has come to call a halt.
i. too. should like to join in the tribute being paid to our colleague from vermont. senator aiken. perhaps my own feelings in this matter can be summarized by saying i have the feeling he would value the thought that he is beloved by his colleagues more than any other. and this is how i feel about him. he. too. i think. would value the realization that i consider him one of the real ideological leaders of the senate and of the country. as one who espouses a cause which has structure and character. it is one of the things that makes me feel so deeply about the great intellectual traditions of new england. that a son of the soil can have that quality. too. is truly remarkable. he has been blessed so far. and i think all of us can join in a prayer for him and his family for the blessings he has received withstanding the vicissitudes of life which for him have been very difficult and somewhat tragic. but which he has taken so remarkably well and philosophically. though we k how keenly he has felt thin. i can only bespeak for him many continued years of the kind of living he is doing today. which is the kind of living he likes the best.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a magnificent statement. as least so much of it as is printed in the new york times of today. made at the first national catholic conference for interracial justice. by the reverend william j. kenealy. professor of law at loyola university of chicago.
 lincoln bespoke the spirit which moves many of us today when he stated in his second inaugural address: with malice toward e. with charity for all. with firmness in the right. as god gives us to see the right. let us strive to finish the work we are in. he was a man whose principles called for the support of measured progress in the field of freedom for the individual with which he is most closely identified by history. it is our fervent hope that this measured progress may continue in the same spirit which heand many of his southern countrymen such as gen. robert e. leewould have had it continue.
. at the brotherhood week dinner of the national conference of christians and jews. held at the hotel roosevelt in new york. february 16. the motion picture. "hand in hand." received the national brotherhood award for its outstanding contribution to the cause of brotherhood. it is the prayerful hope of all men of good will that we are steering a sure course to a better world in which brotherhood and mutual understanding for our fellow man. whatever may be his race. color. or creed will prevail. a message that contributes effectively to this goal must be cherished and treasured. it is the theme of this motion picture which was made in england by its sensitive and perceptive young producer. helen winston. "hand in hand" is a simple story about two children. a catholic boy and a jewish girl. schoolmates and neighbors. whose deep friendship and affection is. for a time. threatened when they are suddenly confronted by the ugly facts of bias and religious prejudice. terrified by this threat to their happy companionship. the boy and girl nevertheless transcend every difficulty that lies in their path. and come. in the end. to k that god may be worshipped in many ways. but that there is only one god. this simple story is truly a thing of beautyan achievement for which producer. director. the players and all associated with the production. including columbia pictures. the releasing company. are to be warmly congratulated. through the inent directness and complete faith of the two children. we are all called to account for our frequent failure to perceive the eternal truth that all men are equal and are brothers. i have illusions as to the miracles of understanding one motion picture can create. but i think that. in "hand in hand." the producer and her coworkers have made a highly articulate and invaluable contribution to the struggle for universal understanding in which we are all so deeply engaged. it is a happy thing to recognize that. upon the release of "hand in hand." sophisticated critics were enthusiastic in their praise of this lovely film. with its simple message of love and brotherhood.
exactly. if the commissioner is to decide the basic constitutional question as to the whole statute. then i think we face one set of circumstances. however. it is different. if we say to the commissioner. "in the event that you find in respect to an application which is made to you. the application of the law which you are asked to make will be such as to run afoul of the separation between church and state. you should so find." to cite a striking example. suppose the commissioner is asked to lend money to build a chapel in a seminary in which a reverend or a priest is to be ordained. he might say. "that obviously runs afoul of the constitution." on the other hand. suppose the commissioner is asked to construct a classroom which does  have the remotest relationship even to time off to study religion. he might consider that that would  run afoul of the constitutional prohibition. that is the question i put to the senator. i wonder if the senator. in introducing the bill. would define precisely what he expects the commissioner to do. thereby explaining the reason why he has written the particular provision into the bill.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record resolutions adopted by the young people of the church of the nazarene in upstate new york. protesting against the sale of porraphic literature. the increasing propaganda of the liquor industry. and all forms of gambling. and so forth.
. i ask unanimous consent that there be included in the record with my remarks a news report by philip s. cook. entitled "the ecoic scapegoats of russia." from the new york herald tribune of february 14. also a report of the jewish miity research of new york entitled "discrimination against judaism in the soviet union."
. the national lutheran council. at its 44th annual meeting held in atlantic city. n.j.. from january 30 to february 1. 1962. adopted two resolutions dealing with issues of national interest. more than 10 years ago the council adopted a resolution supporting participation by the united states in the united nations. because of various pressures throughout the country to alter or weaken such support. the council at this annual meeting reaffirmed its earlier statement. in its resolution concerning the peace corps. the council gave general endorsement to the objectives of the peace corps and encouraged qualified lutherans to participate in it. at the same time. it expressed the judgment that the council itself. as a church agency. should  enter into any contractual relationship with the peace corps. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the two resolutions adopted by the national lutheran council.
. with respect to the soviet states attitude toward the jewish faith. one should e that its physical necessities are made virtually utainable. kosher food. unleavened bread. and the like are either almost impossible to come by or are totally so. in addition. soviet attacks on judaism in provincial newspapers and over provincial radio stationssources  mally accessible to the westindulge in the grossest type of blatant antijudaism. for example. the dagestan newspaper. kommunist. the communist party organ for a republic of a million and a half inhabitants. asserted on august 9. 1960. in an attack on judaism that "a jew who does  drink the blood of moslems at least once a year is  considered a true believer." retraction of this statement was obtained with great difficulty a month later. even then the editor and writer were absolved of "ill will" and allowed to plead "igance." we have ed an increase in soviet government campaigns against organized religion as a whole. but hing comparable with respect to what is being done against jews of the soviet union. and there are at least 212 million there. to this day. soviet individual identification papers must bear the word "jewish" as a description of the bearers "nationality." the soviets are traditionally sensitive to contacts between soviet citizens and foreign groups of all types. the allegations of offenses by soviet jews seem to fit the broader pattern of continuing soviet oppression of their nationals who seek contact with foreigners or with alien creeds of any type. i hope the world opinion which is being marshaled to call the soviet union to account for these activities may express itself. as the facts i have referred to are  fundamentally confirmed.
. i do  believe that all these matters will be better handled if they are handled mutely. and i have urged that public protests be made by leading citizens of both secular and religious organizations. and i continue to urge that as an effort to halt the inhuman course of action in the soviet union. as we are aware. the soviet union is very sensitive to charges of antijudaism or antisemitism. that is evidenced in the most obvious way by the publicity in the soviet union. the soviet press agency osti released a letter on may 11. 1962. from five soviet jews. endeavoring to answer the charges which have been made. naming me by name. the state departments reply indicated the following: first. there is clear evidence of the report by the soviet regime to discriminatory measures against jews in their access to higher education. second. desecration of cemeteries. closing of synagogues. dispersing of prayer meetings. arrest of lay leaders. prohibition of certain jewish religious practices. and so forth. have been well established. finally. there is a sign of increased sensitivity to charges of antisemitism. all calculated to counter recent foreign publicity of deliberate antisemitic actions by the soviet regime. the state department says in referring to the letter of the five jewish citizens released on may 11. 1962.
. i should like to say a few words . having considered carefully the decision of the supreme court on the school prayer of new york. we in new york are especially interested in the supreme court school prayer decision because it concerns the new york board of regents and new york schools. i speak personally as a man of religious background both in family tradition and in practice. and i believe firmly in prayer and in the right of every schoolchild to have an opportunity to pray to almighty god. i would like. however. to discuss this decision as a lawyer. after studying the decision carefully. it is my judgment as a lawyer that it is much narrower in its scope than the public debate about it suggests. the supreme court expressly decided only that the first amendment establishment clause is a bar to government endorsement of "one particular kind of prayer or one particular form of religious services." it held that the state or federal governments are prohibited from prescribing by law "any particular form of prayer which is to be used as an official prayer in carrying on any program of governmentally sponsored religious activity." it is important to e that the concurring opinion. which takes a broader view of the decision. is. though entitled to respect.  the prevailing view of a majority of the court. accordingly. i have informed the new york commissioner of education that i do  interpret the decision as altogether forbidding prayer in the schools. for example. if the board of regents recommended to school authorities that each day begin with a compulsory opportunity for a period of silent prayer and meditation. i would  consider this to be in defiance of the courts ruling. the fundamentally religious nature of the american way of life was very evident in the courts decision. the majority opinion explains that the establishment clause was included in the first amendment along with the freedom of religion clause because it was recognized by the founding fathers that. historically. "the greatest dangers to the freedom of tle individual to worship in his own way lay in the governments placing its official stamp of approval upon one particular kind of prayer or one particular form of religious services." consequently. the decision in the final analysis would be interpreted as seeking to strengthen. rather than weaken. this most basic freedom of each of us. of worshiping in his own way and teaching each of our children to worship in his own way. our efforts should therefore be directed to exploring the ways in which that cherished freedom can be exercised fully and consistently with the basic constitutional guarantees and structure of our government. i deeply believe that this does  exclude a period of prayer and devotion in our lchools. and that this was  the thrust of the opinion.
. the year 1963 will mark the centennial of the emancipation proclamation. a number of bills have been introduced calling for various sorts of national recognition and celebration of the event. i am a cosponsor of senate joint resolution 138. introduced by senator douglas. to create a commission to commemorate appropriately the emancipation of the american negro. including presentation of an exhibit at the emancipation centennial exposition to be held in chicago. ill.. in the summer of 1963. surely the congress should be able to enact at least this ceremonial recognition of equal rights. i was happy to e last month the stated intention of the distinguished gover of my state. nelson a. rockefeller. to present to the govers conference on july 14 a resolution pledging affirmative action at the state level against discrimination based on race. creed. or color. in housing. in education. in transportation. in employment. in public places of assembly or in personal services. i e with regret that the resolution was  adopted by the conference. i invite the attention of my colleagues to the statement made by gover rockefeller on this subject. at the banquet of the council of bishops. american methodist episcopal church. in new york. on july 5. i ask unanimous consent that the statement be inserted in the record at this point in my remarks.
. the soviet unions continuing policy of persecuting religions and religious groups has been exemplified in recent weeks by the reports of a russian baptist sect seeking refuge in the u.s. embassy in moscow. by attacks on lithuanian catholics. jehovahs witnesses and other sects. by the reported closing of the synagogue in lvov. a city in the western ukraine. and by other similar practices. despite soviet denials of antisemitism. there is little doubt that in practice jews in the soviet union are singled out for special discrimination and sudden persecution. soviet authorities cite statistics to show that jews hold a high proportion of professional. artistic. and political positions but replies of this character are evasions of the central issue. which is the existence of discrimination and persecution. i have never received direct and satisfactory answers from the soviet authorities to questions which i have raised publicly on the persecution of jews in the soviet union. even if one accepted questionable soviet statistics as fact. this would  tell us why there has been a special crackdown on jewish cultural life and the use of yiddish by russian jews as compared with the treatment accorded other soviet miity groups.  does it answer why there has been special prominence and featuring in the soviet press of jewish names and jews charged with crimes involving currency speculation and black marketing. why have these alleged crimes been linked with the synagogue as a purported cover for them. and why have synagogues been charged with being centers of subversive activity. why the prohibition on so basic a religious practice as the baking of matzoth at passover. last month. a group of 46 leading catholic. protestant. and jewish clergymen sent a cable to premier khrushchev urging that the u.s.s.r. lift its policy of oppression against russian jews. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the text of the cable sent on december 7. an editorial entitled "an appeal to khrushchev." which appeared in the washington. d.c.. post. december 7. and a list of discriminatory practices against soviet jews and the soviet reply. headlined "russias defense on jewish bias charges." which appeared in the new york herald tribune on ember 24. 1962.
. a news report from moscow today discloses that jews in the u.s.s.r. will again  be able to obtain matzoth for the passover this year. for the second year. state bakeries. the only ones permitted to operate in the soviet union. will  supply the religious ceremonial wafers for the passover. the news report adds that the chief rabbi of the only synagogue in moscow told his congregation last saturday that a new request had been rejected by the soviet authorities. these same authorities have also refused to allow soviet jews to import matzoth for the religious observance this year as they did last year. at that time i acted on behalf of a group of american matzoth bakers who had volunteered to ship a planeload of matzoth to the soviet union in time for observance of the passover. this is a direct attack on the part of the communists against jewish religious practices. and it gives further credence to the charge so hotly denied by chairman khrushchev himself of discrimination by soviet officials. chairman khrushchev owes the world an explanation for this and other attacks on russian jews. the hundreds of words used by khrushchev in his speech on march 8 to describe his attitude toward jews and to deny the existence of a jewish problem in the u.s.s.r. do  explain the repressive actions of the soviet government against jews. the soviet unions action should be protested and an accounting demanded. there has been international protest in these matters as well. i draw attention to the fact that at the meeting of the united nations general assembly social committee. on ember 1. 1962. the australian delegate. acting on the instructions of his government. specifically singled out soviet discrimination against jews during the committees debate on manifestations of racial prejudice and national and religious intolerance. the russians again hotly denied that that was so. but the australian delegate stuck by his guns. and the record fully bears him out. i hope the protest of the world will again be directed at the soviet union for this act of discrimination. again shown by acts rather than speeches. which flies directly in the face of the position taken by chairman khrushchev in his speech of march 8. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the ation of the australian initiative and intervention that i have described and the news article to which i have referred. datelined moscow. march 18. entitled "soviet forbids making matzoh in red bakeries."
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record an article which appeared in the winter 196263 issue of american judaism entitled "the dilemma of soviet jewry." written by rabbi judah cahn. spiritual leader of the metropolitan synagogue of new york city.
. i should like to pay my personal tribute to pope john xxiii. my children and i had an opportunity to see this great leader of the roman catholic church at an audience in rome  so many months ago. first. the humbleness and absolute charm of the pontiff was most impressive  only to me but also to my young children. he was the embodiment of the kind of graciousness and loving kindness with which his name is properly identified in the world. though it is too early to make a historical appraisal. i believe pope john will go down in history as one of the most extraordinary popes who has ever reigned. because of his calling together the ecumenical council. dedicated to bringing down the walls between faiths. devout as he was. the pope recognized that it could be done without jeopardizing in any way the doctrine or integrity of his own church. which is jealous of its doctrine and integrity. or that of any other church. i hope the endeavor will be continued by pope johns successors. it is most promising for all mankind. it is very much part of the great encyclical on peace. which the pope signed. entitled "pacem in terris." which forever identifies him in that field. in his encyclical on peace. i k of greater contribution that the pope himself could have made to what he hoped was the embodiment of his reignhis effort to bring down the barriers of an adverse relationship between faiths. the faiths are moithic in their belief in god and their convictions on morality. so may it be. i pray only that. in memory of this dear and devoted human being who graced our earth. his work may be continued. that work is very much of a piece with the moral challenge in the civil rights field. of which we have been speaking. and which is essential to the future of mankind.
. among its many accomplishments. the conference agreed to establish a new organization entitled "the world peace through law center" as the nerve center of the legal community of the world to coordinate research and teaching in international law. issue publications. and encourage the exchange of students. scholars. and judges. there is a group on capitol hill. called members of congress for world peace through rule of law. which holds luncheons periodically and endeavors to inculcate these very ideas. the group was much inspired by the senator from pennsylvania . and representative fulton of pennsylvania. representative fraser of minnesota. senator church and i are members of its steering committee. i believe that our generation and future generations will hold in reverence all who have anything to do with developing the world rule of law. to replace what man has kn since time immemorial as the world rule of force. i hope very much that. with the kledge which inspired us to advance upon this subject. our country. with its vision and its dynamism and pioneering spirit. may take its part in building a structure of law which will maintain peace for all mankind. at long last. after so many centuries of suffering and danger.
i join in wishing well to representative ostertag. representative ostertag has been an indefatigably able member of congress. devoted to the affairs of our state and district and to the affairs of the nation. incidentally. his is one of the finest minds of which i k for analyzing the real effect and basis of a piece of proposed legislation or public policy. representative ostertag has often prided himself upon the fact that he represents conservative views. i feel very deeply that that is the kind of skill which the congress urgently needs. and it represents the finest contributions of a man who so characterizes himself in terms of the amalgam which is the american consensus. i am sorry that he is leaving us. we can only be grateful to him for the emous service that he has rendered. and pay this extremely well deserved tribute to his service. i join my colleague. his next door neighbor. in the hope and prayer that he will have a full and happy life in all the years which lie ahead of him. i thank my colleague.
when the senator says "fractionalization." it may mean many things. what i should like to say to the senatorand i shall develop this point at the appropriate time. and hope the senator will then join in the discussionis that there is a division between the socalled prodemocratic forces in the christian democratic party. very much on the european model. very heavily premised upon people who are anticommunist because of their church affiliation. namely. the fact that they are catholics and opposed to communism. and the other democratic forces which have for a considerable number of years been the dominant political factor in the country. and which is called the democratic front. it is a fact that when we consider the bielection in curico on sunday. we find that the socialistcommunist forces. which elected their candidate. received less than a majority of the vote. the combination of the other two forces which i have described received more than a majority vote. of course. they were divided. in that sense the problem is the division among the prodemocratic forces. however. there is some ideological difference between the two democratic forces. which is very important for us to understand. and which can be very helpful to us in our own policy. it is that question with which i should like to deal as soon as i have prepared the apropriate material based upon my findings there and can present them to the senate.
. the participation of religious groups in the civil rights struggle is being marked by a growing sense of unity and responsibility on this great issue. plans are underway for a national interreligious convocation at which representatives of all faiths will be present. to be held in the nations capital on april 28. it is expected to involve thousands of churchmen. and will be the signal for similar joint meetings in parishes and congregations throughout the country. an example of this joint local action was provided recently in crotohudson. n.y.. when worshipers in churches and synagogues were given a joint statement on open membership and copies of the positions on racial justice of the three faiths and that of their branches that were represented. the groups included the reform jewish. roman catholic. episcopalian. methodist. and lutheran. and it marked the first time that all the religious institutions in croton were united in any single activity or statement. . i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the report on the april 28 interfaith meeting. headlined "churchmen open interfaith drive for rights bill." which appeared in the new york times of april 10. and the joint statement entitled "brotherhood." issued by asbury methodist church. holy name of mary roman catholic church our saviour lutheran church. st. augustines episcopal church. and templf. israel. all of croton. on friday evening. april 3. and sunday morning. april 5. * following passover and easter.
. i ask unanimous consent that the most eloquent address of rev. dr. eugene carson blake. stated clerk of the united presbyterian church in the united states of america. and chairman of the commission on religion and race of the national council of churches representing both protestant and eastern orthodox. be printed at this point in my remarks. together with a letter of invitation addressed to me and other senators by these distinguished clergymen.
madam president. one of the most encouraging aspects of the current effort to enact the pending civil rights legislation has been the great support for the moral principle behind it which has been provided by organized religion throughout the nation. typical of this support is the resolution adopted on may 12. 1964. by the 184th convention of the diocese of new york of the protestant episcopal church. and i ask unanimous consent that the resolution be printed in the record.
 allesandri. i reported to the senate at that time the possibility that a communistsocialist coalition regime could be elected legally in that country. i then reported that it would be the first in any free world country to be freely elected. hence. i am especially pleased that this possibility did  become a reality. and we owe to senator frei a great debt of gratitude. the christian democrats of latin america are basically a postworld war ii phee. reflecting the emergence of a more socially conscious wing of the roman catholic church with adherents among the middle class. organized labor and the peasantry. their methods are democratic. their goals. basic social and ecoic change in the interest of the broad mass of the people. the latin american christian democrats regard themeslves as counterparts of the european parties of the same name. they all belong to the christian democratic international. in this hour of general satisfaction i wish to strike a e of caution. those who see in eduardo freis victory. the victory of a man whose domestic and foreign policies will be an exact duplicate of ours. may be sorely disappointed in the coming months.
. i invite attention to the 47th independence day of byelorussia. this has just been referred to by the distinguished. most reverend archbishop vasili of the byelorussian autocephalic orthodox church in america. with the gracious permission of our chaplain. dr. harris. the archbishop has indeed made an eloquent plea for help to these people who have been held in tyranny and subjection for so many decades.
. today marks the 47th anniversary of the byelorussian independence dayan anniversary of great importance for american citizens of byelorussian descent. they are a loyal group who have been doing everything they can to protest soviet oppression. and to regain the independence and freedom of byelorussia. an eloquent plea was made last week by the distinguished most reverend archbishop vasili. of the byelorussian autocephalic orthodox church. when he delivered the opening prayer in the senate. because the flame of freedom burns brightly in the hearts of these captive people. in spite of harsh restrictions. deportations. imprisonment. and other repressive measures.. and because their hope for independence is still strong. it is extremely important that the united states keep alive this hope of freedom. my respect for the selfdetermination of the byelorussian people is well kn. and i take this opportunity to reaffirm my support of efforts on their behalf and on behalf of the freedom of all the peoples of the captive nations. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a resolution adopted at the convention of the americans of byelorussian descent. held on march 21. 1965. at the hotel biltmore. in new york city. for the 47th anniversary of the independence of the byelorussian democratic republic.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a resolution adopted by the general assembly at the closing session of the fourth general assembly of the unitarian universalist association. held at the statler hotel in boston. on friday. may 28. 1965.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point a resolution adopted by the general assembly at the closing session of the fourth general assembly of the unitarian universalist association held in boston on friday. may 28.
. on may 3. the world hoed a milestone in world history. the eyes of the world are on the millennium of poland. even . while poland is enslaved by the communist iron curtain. poles throughout the world are celebrating their millennium.  only as a national. observance. but also a religious observance to our common providence. in whom they have placed their faith for 40 generations. the year 966 is the most significant in the life of the polish nation because it is the first kn historical date of the origin of poland as a nation. in that year. the ruler of poland. mieszko. converted his country to christianity. from the perspective of the thousandyear existence of poland as a western country. 31.500.000 poles at home and 10 million poles abroad. living all over the world. can view proudly polands role in the history of the world and its part in the progress and achievement of mankind. the indomitable spirit of polish history is a guarantee that the country. halted in its progress by the present communist regime. in time will regain full independence and freedom. to understand this indomitable spirit of the polesa spirit which has survived 1.000 years of turmoil and persecution in its stubborn defense of freedom and human dignity--one must study the past. for it is in their magnificent past that one can gain an insight into their hopeful future. by accepting christianity in 966. poland forever linked her destiny with that of the west and became a creative force in western culture. keeping at the same time centurieslong watch on the eastern ramparts of christendom. she often found herself as the defender of the freedom of conscience and the spiritual rights of the individual against atheistic onslaughts. throughout her 1.000 years. poland has maintained a tradition which even  sustains the faith of the polish nation in cultural values. democratic ideals. and the precepts of the western world. these have continued and have strengthened the will of individual poles in their homeland and abroad to withstand communistimposed travails. spiritually rished by manifestations of friendship in the west. the poles have kept the hope alive that their day of deliverance and the return of their rightful place in the free world shall become a reality. polands history has been a chronicle of endurance against mans inhumanity toward his fellow man. it is a litany of unparalleled bravery. the gallant resistance of warsaw in 1939 against the nazi invasion will long be remembered as an inspiration to the rest of the world in its fight against the german conquest of europe poland was able to make so profound a contribution to the cultural development of europe and the world. throughout the millennium of their tragedyfilled history. the poles immeasurably enriched the world in arts and sciences. polafid gave to the world copernicus. the father of modern astroy. marie curie. who unlocked the secrets of the atom. and chopin and paderewski in music. poland is once again embroiled in a conflict between human rights and their denial. although the poles are again under the yoke of an atheistic power. their spirit has remained unbroken and they remain faithful to the principles on which polands greatness was founded. this year. 1966. is a time for renewal and rededication of their beliefs. the communist government. in its celebration of the millennium. is attempting to discredit anything which might point up the historical role of the church. yet the role of the church throughout the 1.000 years of life of the polish nation is indisputable. in different eras. the church was the sole visible spiritual power which bound together the nation as a whole. today. the communist government in warsaw is doing everything possible within its power to isolate the polish nation from the west in this millennium year. this can happen. america owes a great deal to the heritage poland sent to our shores since colonial times. let this millennium be a celebration of the rejuvenation of hope and faith that once again our common heritage of freedom will bring forth a new understanding and appreciation between the people of the united states of america and poland.
. any discussion of the 5year record of the alliance for progress must go beyond an examination of its effect on the rate of social and ecoic progress to a consideration of the political and military stability of latin america. in the long run it had been hoped that the ecoic development and social progress of latin america would enrich the lives. increase the security. and contribute to the political stability of the people of the americas. the record of the past 5 years shows that we have far to go in this respect. indeed. the military and political aspects of american life have  kept pace with the social and ecoic aspects. the basic problem still confronting the american states is how to deal with political instability resulting from the overthrow of democratic governments by the communists or by the ultraright. the problem of communist subversion on a large scale while extremely vital is relatively new to this hemisphere. whereas a rapid turer of governments and the seizure of power by dictators--often military has been a feature of the latin american scene for decades. it is the concurrence of these two factors. in the current ecoic and social atmosphere. which  threatens central and south america with even more governmental upheavals. eleven military coups have occurred in latin america since the beginning of 1961. it may be argued very convincingly that  all of these takeovers were necessarily undesirable. but it may be argued with equal persuasiveness that. however transitional may be the entry of the military into the political affairs of some latin american countries. in their totality these coups are a manifestation of continued political instability which has become increasingly damaging to latin americas development and should therefore inspire great hemispheric concern. the real danger lies in the continued erosion of the hope and faith of the people in the viability of democratic government. in the comparative ease with which successive coups can follow the path broken by prior ones. and in the frequent or prolonged absence of the democratic experience. i firmly believe that this nation must. in action as well as in rhetoric. oppose the overthrow of truly democratic governments in latin america. we can wish away the threat of chronic military takeovers. a phee so deeply rooted in the history of latin america. by putting all our faith in ecoic and social change under the alliance for progress. rather. the united states must put aspiring military dictators on ice that those who come into power by unconstitutional means will  receive u.s. aid. we are already seeing the reaction in latin america to the argentine military takeover even of the catholic church following violent repression in the universities. for too long the united states has publicly scolded but. on occasion. privately accepted military takeovers. all they seemingly had to do was to dredge up an alleged communist threat and make some vague reference about future free elections to garner u.s. support. i believe it is specious and dangerous to argue. as many have. that we should tolerate rightist but condemn leftist dictatorships. if we quietly condone the former while we only condemn the latter. the longrun result will be the disenchantment of the people of latin america with the democratic process and aid to the communist cause. i close by expressing the ardent wish that the conference on the foreign aid bill will very seriously consider and adopt the amendment which was agreed to in the senate. which puts us on record against military dictatorships to the extent that we can feasibly and wisely do so. i apologize to my colleague. the senator from washington. and i do  believe i have taken much more than the 5 minutes.
. i would like to call the attention of my colleagues to a development in argentina which i hope signals the beginning of a change of heart on the part of the military regime there. yesterdays new york times reports that the regime has offered to restore the prerogatives of the nationally chartered universities. as you k. these prerogatives had been abolished when the new regime seized the universities on july 29 and placed them under governmental control for the first time in argentine history. i sincerely hope that mr. enrique martinez paz statement. proclaiming that "interference in university internal matters is the governments firm purpose." becomes a reality. i trust that the restoration of the traditional autoy of the universities signals the beginning of a shift in the policies of the new regime toward a return to constitutionalism. indeed. let us all hope this new action leads to the formation of a new policy to restore democracy and freedom to the argentine people. to this hopeful e. however. i feel i must add the fact that this single action seen in the context of what has come before. leaves room for only cautious optimism. it is my judgment that to a very large degree this change of heart resulted from action by the oas. as manifested in the recent postponement of the scheduled foreign ministers conference. and criticism of the argentine regime earlier this week by catholic church leaders and catholic professors. in addition. i believe the recent approval by the senate of an amendment to cut off u.s. aid to latin american regimes which came into power by the constitutional overthrow of a freely elected. constitutional democratic government has had a profound impact on latin american opinion. that amendment is  before the housesenate conference committee on the foreign aid bill. i urge the conferees to realize the longterm political importance of the amendment and to resist all attempts to delete or substantially modify it. i ask unanimous consent that three new york times articles and an editorial on this subject be printed in the record as part of my remarks.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record the declaration of the bishops of the catholic church of the united states on the catholicjewish relations. this. i believe. represents a histonc document which ought to be read with the greatest of care and which the world ought to e with deep satisfaction.
. the march 1967 issue of fordham. the magazine of fordham university. a great institution of learning in new york city. contains an article entitled. "judaism and justice." which describes a most significant project of the universitys john xxiii center. undertaken in cooperation with the antidefamation league of bnai brith. the aim of the project is to implement and foster within the catholic community at the grassroots level the spirit of the vatican ii decree on catholicjewish relations. in the brief period since their first appearance. the booklets described in the article. published and distributed under the centers auspices. have been enthusiastically received by people of all faiths. i believe that the work of the john xxiii center is a most constructive endeavor which merits the attention of all americans. it is because i want to share this article with senators that i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record.
. one thing that was said. in a most modest way. by the assistant pastor of ebenezer baptist church. rev. ronald english. and when i say modest. i mean it. the capacity of that church is under 250. and it has a relatively small congregationi shall never forget. listen to what this vely fine young assistant pastor said. i hope i never forget the words. and i hope the senate never forgets the words. he said: he who would blaspheme the name of martin luther king will do violence in the streets. i repeat: he who would blaspheme the name of martin luther king will do violence in the streets. i have hardly in my lifetime ever heard anything so well put. carrying so much meaning. as that. indeed. this was the whole life of martin luther king. and the assistant pastor said it in a way that. it seems to me. all the world can understand. i think it deserves to rank in modern terms with. "love thy neighbor as thyself." and other short. famous expressions. as. in my faith. "behold. i have given you a good doctrine. forsake it ." and many statements of the same kind. i repeat it on the senate floor so that somewhere it may be preserved. i ask that the full text of reverend englishs prayer be printed in the record.
. i have just returned from a brief but very productive visit to europe. where i was chairman of a meeting of the political committee of the th atlantic assembly held in brussels on may 20. and hoed speaking commitments in frankfurt on may 21 and in rome on may 22. in addition. i was able to meet with our distinguished chief negotiators in parisambassadors harriman and vanceand to have a most rewarding audience with his holiness pope paul. i spoke in the senate last friday about the paris peace talks. in fulfillment of an undertaking i had made to gover harriman and based on my conversations with him in paris and with pope paul. inasmuch as the speeches i gave in frankfurt and in rome. which were also tabled as discussion papers at the th atlantic assembly. provoked much thought in european circles. i ask unanimous consent that they be printed in the record as matters of possible interest to senators. in frankfurt i spoke on the subject "the united states and europeafter vietnam." this speech offers a broad conceptual framework for the modernization and expansion of the overall united stateseuropean relationship in the decade ahead. in rome i spoke on a more specific subjectthe new situation in the mediterranean basinresulting from new u.s.s.r. actions therewhich must be of urgent concern to the whole western community. this speech is entitled "a new role for nato" and offers specific proposals for counteracting the great new soviet push to flank nato to the south and east.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record articles and editorial comment on arthur hays sulzberger from the new york times. and the text of a most distinguished memorial address delivered by james reston at the memorial service at temple emanuel in new york on december 15. 1968.
. a small but significant breach was made in the iron curtain which has cut off the nearly 3 million soviet jews from their brethren abroad. when the chief rabbi of moscow. rabbi yehuda leib levin. visited the united states. this was the first visit of a soviet jewish rabbi to the united states since the russian revolution 50 years ago. although the soviets had permitted representatives of other religious faiths to visit this nation on several occasions. rabbi arthur schneier. the distinguished spiritual leader of the park east synagogue in new york city. has written a perceptive article on rabbi levins visit to the united states. which was published in the december 24. 1968. issue of look. i ask unanimous consent that this article be printed in the record. coupled with the hope. as rabbi schneier states in his article. that a new time for the soviet people of the jewish faith may be at hand.
. that this may yet be done. i shall do everything that i possibly can to forward it. the real concern of people like myself is the fate and future of all of the people of the middle eastarab and jew alikeand i shall dedicate myself to endeavoring to bring about some condition of greater security. peace. and development for them all. and some effort to rescue the tremendous arab masses from the sea of despondency. hopelessness. misery. ill health. malnutrition. and superstition in which they have been immersed for so long.
the second bill would create a preference for religious and profit groups who suffered losses during the war. the senator from massachusetts is a cosponsor of this measure. under present law. only small businesses have a preference. and the purpose of my proposal is simply to put these churches and welfare organizations on the same footing as private businesses in pressing their claims. some of the groups which would be specifically affected are yaleinchina. bnai brith. and numerous catholic and protestant groups. when the original war claims act was passed in 1948. small businesses were given a priority in order to put them in a better position visavis big business. which had already received considerable tax benefits because of its losses. the problem of the profit organization. however. was appparently neglected. and the purpose of this bill is to remedy the situation by creating equal priorities for small business and profit groups.
. one thing that was said. in a most modest way. by the assistant pastor of ebenezer baptist church. rev. ronald english. and when i say modest. i mean it. the capacity of that church is under 250. and it has a relatively small congregationi shall never forget. listen to what this very fine young assistant pastor said. i hope i never forget the words. and i hope the senate never forgets the words. he said: "he who would blaspheme the name of martin luther king will do violence in the streets." i repeat: "he who would blaspheme the name of martin luther king will do violence in the streets." i have hardly in my lifetime ever heard anything so well put. carrying so much meaning. as that. indeed. this was the whole life of martin luther king. and the assistant pastor said it in a way that. it seems to me. all the world can understand. i think it deserves to rank in modern terms with. "love thy neighbor as thyself." and other short. famous expressions. as. in my faith. "behold. i have given you a good doctrine. forsake it ." and many statements of the same kind. i repeat it on the senate floor so that somewhere it may be preserved. i ask that the full text of reverend englishs prayer be printed in the record.
the senator has recited a poem. i think that is about the only way to describe it. i should like to join. without seeming officious. in the exultation of all mankind at this breakthrough and the prayer that it will bring all men to their senses for an era of real peace in which all this can be enjoyed for ourselves and our children. i think that would probably be the greatest memorial we could make to these unbelievably exciting and wonderful men.
. is this: where a person donates or bequeaths property to an exempt organization. which property is subject to an indebtedness which was placed on the property more than 5 years in advance of the gift or bequest. such indebtedness will  be treated as an acquisition indebtedness for a period of 10 years. so as to meet the provisions of the bill with respect to ability to make and receive that kind of gift. those provisions do  apply when an organization acquires property by what is called a "bargain sale." the bargain sale is a common method of donating property. and organizations which have received property in that manner are thereupon deprived of what is called the 10year transition period. this amendment would allow the same 10year transition period where such property is acquired by bargain sale. provided that the do is paid more than 10 percent of his equity in the property. in short. all that the amendment does is to change what the committee has already provided is this 10 percent of the equity provision. the particular problem arose in connection with trinity church in new york. which ran into this kind of a situation. we submitted the proposal to the committee. and both the senator from delaware and the senator from louisiana worked this out with me. and. as i say. the actual text of the amendment was drafted by the staff. i do . and obviously they do . feel that it violates the spirit of what the committee on finance was trying to accomplish by this particular provision.
 of the american bar association and his wife. its primary purpose will be to encourage americans to sup*port three predominantly black civil rights groupsthe national association for the advancement of colored people. the national urban league. and the southern christian leadership conferencein their efforts to eliminate racial tension and polarization. these interracial organizations have long records of positive accomplishment achieved by violent approaches in seeking an end to social injustice. i commend the national conference of christians and jews for this constructive approach to fostering brotherhood. and will follow the progress of the committees work with great interest.
one thing has  been said. and that is that the casebecause the country and the world are in troublefor rules change is very strong. i do  believe that it is desirable to leave the argument solely to those who are opposed. who are engaging in what is euphemistically called extended debate. which is their right. i would hope that senators such as myself and others who feel strongly about this matter. in the :4568 present state of the world. would take the next week to make our case to the people. i think we need to do it in dignity and selfrespect to ourselves. so. for myself. i shall hope to occupy the floor for a reasonable period of time during 1 or more days. so that this case may be made for the country. that is what makes movement as much as what may be very difficult compromises. as senator mansfield has pointed out. though i will join senator church in giving the utmost consideration to senator millers ideas. but i do hope that other senators will feel it in their hearts and consciences to speak up . this is the last opportunity to make the case for this congress. the world is in trouble. and the country is in trouble. and this can only get us in even more trouble. and we ought to make clear to the people what is at stake and why they ought to be urging their senators to vote for cloture and to get these rules changed.
 to designate the period beginning march 26. 1972. as "national week of concern for prisoners of war/missing in action." and to designate sunday. march 26. 1972. as a national day of prayer for these americans. referred to the committee on the judiciary.
the thing that impresses me about this debatewith all respect to all of usis really our lack of profound kledge of the law. which is  going to be decided by the supreme court. and lack of profound kledge of the real problems of policy which are involved. i will give two examples. it is my best recollectionand i am being very careful in the choice of wordsthat the reason that dictated my suggestion to senator church for a revision of that amendment was a section in the law which gave the executive the power to classify documents and to punish individuals who would publish or disseminate documents so classified. so i argued that even if we declassified or reclassified. anybody publishing would still be liable under the law for having violated the fact that the executive had classified. even if we declassified. so the law had to be changed. and that is what senator church cranked into his amendment. the question of policy is very profound. you have to reconcile your privilege and mine as a senator to have immunity. withstanding the high interests of the country. as to senator churchs amendment. that is what fouled us up. and that is why we did  actually plow through it with the conviction we might have in the committeewe saw that that would  stand up in the face of our immunity. suppose we adopt this amendment. suppose the senate did classify. suppose the senator said. "in my conscience. even if the senate did classify. i am still going to read it into the record and anybody can publish it. then they have the recourse they had under the pentagon papers. and hing is going to happen to me. because hing happened to burton k. wheeler." the question i should like to ask the senator is this: we realize how important these papers are. they are out. anyhow. there is a school that says they are  out if they are out even if the papers think they published them. it is when we publish them that they are really official and really out. i wonder whether the senator would think it responsible. in the interest of responsibility. if some small group of senators. elected by us. right . should bring into the senate a recommendation as to how to handle this situation. how do you reconcile the immunity of the individual senator. the responsibility of the body. and some responsibilitywe must recognize its existencein the executive department for the security of the whole nation. we have the same responsibility. will the people be irretrievably damaged if what the senator wants to publish tomorrow is  published for 2 weeks. so that we may really get a clear sighting. as a body. upon what piece of legislation we ought to adopt. probably separately or in the state department authorization. upon this question. which is so vexing. with all fairness to the senator. i might say that whatever individuals might think about what he did or did  do. he certainly has posed a question which demands resolution. senator fulbright. whom i deeply hothough on occasion i have  been able to see eye to eye with himhas had this matter very deep in his heart. the question of principle. and he has taken many hard kks. because he simply would  allow any one man. more than himself. to have the unchallenged right to tell the american people what they should k or should  k. so i ask that question. it is more or less in the genesis of the views of the senator from rhode island . this is a serious matter. our reconciling three sometimes conflicting points of viewthe individual. this body. and the president. should we  do our utmost to come up with a deeply considered policy. as a body. rather than off the cuff. as it were. to authorize the senator for generalized reasons. like the public should k. or the information is being denied. a basic policy which the senate could adopt as a body and stand on before the whole country.
i certainly believe we have to. i thoroughly agree with the senator that hing must be done to trammel or imped6 or abort the constitutional privilege of every member. but every member is on ice that that constitutional privilege is subject to his position as a senator. so long as he is a senator. he has the right to do whatever he wishes respecting those papers. but he can be unmade a senator. if that is the way the senate decides. i am reminded of what i consider among the most heroic examples in american history. of martin luther king attending a prayer meeting. blocking the street on bended knee. praying to our common god for what he considered to be justice. with his little package under his arm.  only prepared to go to jail. but it was an essential part of the ritual that he was perfectly ready to accept the fact that you had to run an orderly society. this did  stop him. but he did  expect to be excused. so i agree thoroughly with the senator from kentucky. of course. we can. should . and i hope. so long as i am alive. will  interfere with the right of a senator to speak anything he wishes. but there are other aspects of the matter. as. for example. when a senator comes to uswhich is essentially what senator gravel didand says: "what do you want me to do. how shall i proceed. i do  want to run it as if it is my own. i have a right to. but i do  want to. how shall i proceed." or. as senator fulbright says to the executive department: "you deny it to me. but i force it out of you. you give it to me. then when i see it i say: it is ridiculous. why did you deny it to me. why should we have this fight." and he is right. but who is to decide. these matters certainly can be left to implication. these are the difficult problems about which i hope we would begin to get some enlightenment from this committee.
i move to lay that motion on the table. the motion to lay on the table was agreed to. aiken allen allott baker bayh beall bellmon bennett bentsen bible boggs brock brooke burdick byrd. harry f.. jr byrd. robert can case church cooper cotton cranston curtis dole dominick eagleton eastland anderson buckley chiles cook ervin fong goldwater i september 5. 1.972
. recently catholic university conferred hoary degrees on two distinguished americansone a public servant in high authoritydr. arthur f. burns. chairman of the federal reserve board. and nathan cunnings of new york. a leader in business. art and philanthropy. as recipients of numerous past awards. both recognized the poignant symbolic significance for the judeochristian heritage of the convocation at catholic university. i ask unanimous consent that the very appropriate remarks of dr. bums on that occasion hereby be be printed in the record.
. on wednesday. may 30. 1973. i had the pleasure of addressing the national conference of christians and jews at a dinner hoing mr. and mrs. henry lee hillman of pittsburgh. pa. the reverend john baiz. d.d.. rector of calvary episcopal church of that city. offered the invocation and i ask unanimous consent to have it printed in the record.
. this would replace essentially what the church amendment would have done. an amendment that the senate defeated narrowly. at a time like this when we scrutinize so carefully every particular expenditure. i think the fact that 47 members of the senate felt in conscience that they ought to vote " is an excellent endorsement of what the committee did. second. and in addition to a steeper cut than the senate rejected when it rejected a cut of $134 million already. the senator from arkansas proposes that we make a cut of $217 million. the fulbright amendment rejects any hope of any new concept in this field. i can only conclude. because in essence that is what the senator says in his miity report which is before the senate. that it means really a rejection of the wholething. on page 66. the senator from arkansas
. january 22 marks the 56th observance of ukrainian independence day. which was originally proclaimed by the ukrainian central rada in january 1918. unfortunately. true ukrainian political independence was shortlived. and the ukraine was quickly submersed into the u.s.s.r. however. the ukraine continues as a culturally distinct region of the soviet union with its own language. literature. and heritage. which have remained despite the persistent efforts of the soviet regime to repress them. the most recent manifestations of soviet repression of ukrainian nationalism are the imprisonment of several ukrainian dissenters in the potma camp for political prisoners. the continuing harassment of ukrainian jews. which appears to be even more severe than in other regions of the soviet union. and the destruction of ukrainian cultural and historic treasures such as the ukrainian orthodox church of the epiphany in zhytomyr. ukrainian s.s.r. in our search for detente with the soviet union. we must  allow to go uniced the aspirations for self -expression of the people of the ukraine. to omit our expressions of concern would be a betrayal of freedom and the human spirit.
. by delegation of senator church as apparently members are  available for debate except for myself. i shall seek aher quorum call and ask unanimous consent that the time taken for the quorum call be divided equally between both sides.
. the senates failure to invoke cloture on the geide convention this month was a great disappointment to a majority of the senate who support ratification. among the supporters of the treaty is bishop james s. rausch. the general secretary of the u.s. catholic conference who made a strong statement deploring the senate vote. i ask unanimous consent that the text of a news release concerning this statement be printed in the record.
. i have heard the statement of the distinguished senator from idaho with great interest. if he were right and everything he said or much of what he said were right. then we should go sentor cases route and simply eliminate this whole burdensome and obious corporation. etheless. even the majority which senator church says entertain all these views did  go that way and decided that an effort should be made over a rather considerable period6 yearsto change the company into some kind of reinsurance company. in short. it  only did  eliminate it. it  only continued it. but even gave it a role beyond the time of 6 years when it is to get out of the direct insurance business and go into the reinsurance business. in addition. if all the things that were said about opic were right. anyone on the committee who voted differently from senator church and those who voted with him need to have their heads examined. but this matter was carried by a very close vote. the bill was reported by the committee by 9 yeas to 7 nays. and this was in the absence of senator sparkman. who has declared himself in favor of opic. so. really. the committee was as much divided as any committee can be. from the point of view of the views of its members. it was divided 9 to 8. while senators fulbright. mansfield.
. i am  going to argue with the senator from missouri because we have been debating that for 24 hours. the senate in one form or aher has expressed its views on that. i do  think members want to go over the whole debate again. but i am going to take very real issue with senator church and senator percy. for this reason: it is one. thing to have oversight. you have oversight where you have a program. and where you have program. there is need for oversight. and that is the end of the matterthe patient is dead. the difference is a very real and practical one. because the committee felt the agency was entitled to 6 years in which to make a transition. we feltthose of us who oppose the committees billthat in order to enable them to make that transition to private insurance. you had to give them a reasonably free hand to. negotiate. we can always put them out of business any time we wish. but is is aher thing to have the agency expire in 2 years and expect any insurance companies to do business with them when their hands are tied. we have the point that senator church did  mention. which i k the senate understands clearly. and it is that while the senate did go with me on one amendment. let us remember that the yugoslavia and romania amendment is a separate thing and has hing to do with the insurance. senator percy. himself. voted with me on that. there is just one amendment. that amendment eliminated the requirement for 25 percent insurance participation on the 1st of january 1975. but the senate has just defeated an amendment which is a very serious handicap to negotiating reinsurance and which they simply can do. the fact is that the 2year extension idea. if straight. with a perfectly free hand. which is what the administration originally sought. is a very different attitude from this one. which ties their hands in the critical element of reinsurance. if the senator would like to accept the amendment which the senate just rejected. then i could see the point of the committeeto wit. according to its manager and senator case. changing their position in midstream. but. with all respect. i feel that this is just aher way of canceling this thing out. one condition has been attached which they can meet. and the time has been shortened so they surely can meet it. and that is the end of that. do we want this or do we . i do  argue with senator symington and those who feel as he does. he voted " constantly. and he properly should. that is his belief. but the majority of the senate voted the other way. and i am appealing to that majority. if senators want to have handiwork left. something to negotiate with. then they should vote for this amendment. it is a totally different route from that which the administration originally recommended and which i recommended. and which i proposed to the committee. and they rejected it. it was then that we went the route of this program. which the committee itself is abandoning. having proposed it to the senate. it is  abandoning it. i respectfully submit that a very material element of that program still is present. by the senate action on the last amendment. for all those reasons. i ask that we  bolt this thing quite so fast. that is what this is. i am always worried about that. when i am faced with that kind of decision. the senate will vote its will. but i think the senate ought to understandand i am trying very hard to contribute to thatthe components which go into this decision.
. we have on occasion established great ility in this chamber in respect of a particular measure which we pass withstanding the fact that only one individual is interested. those occasions are high points for the senate of the united states. i only lay out this set of facts. as i say. i am  angry or bitter about it because i think it is a lesson which we should all learn. someone elses state may be the next state up. senators can say. "there but for the grace of god go i." there is a very deep and proper human principle involved. i do  expect miracles. i am  living in a mirage. i k that on occasion selfinterest has to be expressed in this chamber. it can be said of me that i talked for a day and a half on the bill. my state had an interest and i was trying to defend that interest. however. there are conations beyond that. so. while i do  believe the republic will fall. i think that this is a case in point in which i had preferred. because my ox was being gored. that the senate take this matter to heart and give it the deepest of consideration. the situation will continue for a while and then it may be someone elses state. i believe that we should consider this experience as a case in point.
 nixons recent trip to the soviet union. the imprisonment and alleged torture of the ukrainian intellectuals valentyn moroz and leonid plyushch. the suppression of the orthodox and catholic churches and. the imprisonment and harassment of innumerable political prisoners and others seeking to assert their human rights are only a few examples of the continuing situation in eastern europe and the soviet union which we all deplore. so strongly. this year the attention of the people of the captive nations is especially directed to the 35nation conference on security and cooperation in europe where the issues of the "inviolability of frontiers"-retention of the status quo in eastern europe by the sovietsand "free flow of ideas and freedom of movement of people"-desired by the westare being joined. if detente between east and west is to have a real and lasting meaning. it is imperative that a unified west make it very clear to the countries of the warsaw pact that if they are to get the techogy. agricultural products. and political and diplomatic concessions that they seek. there must be concomitant recognition on their part of some of the basic principles of western european tradition: the recognition of fundamental human rights. and. of national integrity and independence. until we achieve that objective. we must  mute our expressions of concern and/or. compromise our solidarity with the unfulfilled aspirations of the peoples of the captive nations for freedom and independence. to do less would be a betrayal of ourselves and/or. the freedom and independence for which men and women have fought and sacrificed for centuries and which is the base of our own freedom.
. having considered the matter and consulted with other colleagues. it would be my purpose to move to table the abourezk amendment to the church amendment rather than to seek a vote if the senator from south dakota is.
. the argument made by senator church runs exactly on itself. if all we are saving is $160 millionand we k that the committee on appropriations is going to be after this authorization. tooand we are giving up the prerogatives of congress to give the priorities on where this money goes and how it goes. the answer must be decidedly  we lawyers have a doctrine called de minimis. if there was ever anything called de minimis. this is it. i think this is precisely the reason for rejecting this amendment.
. i think it is a tribute to senator bible that he so unselfishly relinquishes his seat to his successor. paul laxalt. it was an act that will benefit his state and a gesture typical of alan bibles thought and goodness of heart. we have kn him to be a quiet man and a deeply thoughtful man. his powers of persuasion have had a deep influence on us all and i. along with all of my colleagues. will miss him during the years ahead. mrs. javits and i extend our warmest good wishes to senator and mrs. alan bible.
. as part of the general flight to suburbia which characterizes our metropolitan areas. more and more churches have left the inner city and followed their congregations to more distant residential areas. the combined pressures of loss of city congregations and increased cost of operating buildings have accelerated the move. fortunately. however. we are told that some churches have decided to stay and revamp their programs. share facilities and ministers and formulate new methods of serving urban congregations. in a story published in the new york daily news recently one such church is st. peters lutheran. on the corner of lexington avenue and 54th street in new york city led by its pastor. dr. ralph e. peterson. has undertaken a brilliant initiative. pastor petersons dream was a church that ministered to all the people.  just the sunday churchgoing crowd. he instituted programs that other churches had never dreamed of. programs that met the needs of the urban society. a theateratn for businessmen. an international ministry for foreigners living and working in new york. a jazz ministry for the many jazz musicians and jazz buffs. an art gallery. a childrens preschool. all became a reality. slowly. the st. peters congregation began to revive. it grew in numbers and dropped in average age. a new foundation was being laid. at the same time. st. peters saw the need for a real foundation. one of cement and steel supporting a new church which would have all of the facilities needed to be a true "living room" in the heart of the city. this too. has become a reality. st. peters has sold its property to citicorp. which is engaged in a major midtown redevelopment project. but has contracted to buy back the land with a new church on the same site at lexington avenue and 54th street. this agreement makes st. peters the worlds first condominium church. for the information of my colleagues. i ask unanimous consent that the daily news article and other pertinent articles be printed in the record.
i join with senator pastore in feeling the same way about what senator church has just said. . . i propound the following parliamentary inquiry: is the point of order raised by the senator from montana or to be raisedi am  clear whether he has actually raised it as yethas he raised it as yet.
i sought recognition immediately after senator church just to hold the floor as far as the committee is concerned. i do wish to speak but. of course. i will defer to our chairman if he wishes to speak.
. recently harold bernstein. chairman of thville industries in long island. n.y.. received a distinguished service award from the national conference of christians and jewsnccjfor his distinguished service in the field of human relations. i believe mr. bernsteins remarks upon receipt of this award show the depth of commitment to his community which expresses excellently the credo of the nccj. 1 ask unanimous consent that mr. bernsteins comments as they appear in the may 28 issue of the long island. n.y.. business review be printed in the record.
 to designate the week of ember 2330 as national bible week. identical legislation has been introduced in the house by representative lindy boggs. this year. congresswoman boggs and i have the ho to be congressional cochairmen of national bible week and we have offered this resolution in order to express congressional support and to focus public interest on this celebration. each of us was raised with a different version of the bible but for each of us it has the same meaning. to me. torah and the entire old testament were a guiding principle in my early religious education. the laymens national bible committee. the sponsor of national bible week. is an organization of professional leaders of all faiths associated in this effort to motivate reading and study of the holy scripture. the committee works in close cooperation with the greek orthodox diocese. the jewish committee for national bible week. the national council of churches and the u.s. catholic conference. its national chairman is richard i. fricke. chairman of mutual of new york. and its supporters and well wishers include a host of americans.
 and the senate on this very issue. as we want more than we have ever gotten before. we could lose. and the country could lose. i believe what john pastore has suggested is absolutely right. without compromising the rule in any way. and  trying to settle this legal dispute on which i have an opinion. senator church has an opinion and others. let us vote on this particular proposition. prejudice. just vote. whatever words we can invent. and maybe i can invent some-
i shall take my own time. so as  to use mr. pells. the senator may remember that in our committee. we developed a compromise on the whole question of secular subjects taught in religious institutions. the late senator wayne morse and i worked diligently to achieve this compromise. it seems to me that what the senator from oregon has said as to the scope of this particular problem probably deserves the same kind of review to see if we can find a way to obtain equal educational opportunity for students who chose to attend these types of institutions without compromising the constitutional prohibitions regarding the mixture of church and state. i should like to have a moment to read the amendment in order to see whether we can. indeed. proceed along the lines that the senator suggests.
. first because it combines an accumulated experience over centuries. which. somehow or other. beats in the blood of the first generation. second. because it always inspires. in my heartand i believe it is just as true of senator mansfieldthe feeling that there but for the grace of god am i. so whether i am eating well or living well or . there is still that human identity with the underdog and the oppressed and the depressed. and an understanding which is an emous alternative to resentment. even when the oppressed and the depressed are unreasonable. as they often are. and are wrong.. as they often are. there is still the deep sympathy and understanding which underlies everything which is done. mike mansfield has always reminded me of the judge meting out a tough sentence with tears in his eyes. that is the way it ought to be.. i think i have said before on this floor that. among the people of my faith. there is one word supreme above all others. that is the word "justice." to me. mike mansfield has epitomized that word. he never used his weight as a leader to be overbearing to. a member that i k of. i believe he never has and he never would. it would be absolutely unthinkable to him. the model of integrity which he represents in this body has given .luster to its name in the tight places and in times when it was in very low esteem. the literal passion with which he uttered to us the call to duty restored the senates character. its quality. and its luster to us and its luster to the country. his leaving is going to be a great loss to the senate. but ody can go on forever. he will be replaced. we hope. if that is humanly possibleand i k he hopes it even more than iby someone who could be even better than he is. that is going to be a very hard act to follow. this is really what i would like to leave with him as a friend and a colleague who has been so good to me. so good to so many of us in accommodating our views. our problems. often we have vexed him deeply. momentarily. he has been aned. but never more than 30 seconds with mike mansfield. i would like tn leave him with one thing: i am almost as old as he is--just 1 year younger. i believe objectively. having. man and boy. lived with him here for 20 years which he reveres more than hos and more than loves. he has really done what man and god could require of any man. he has every reason to be very happy with maureen. his delightful wife. and to feel that he is resting. as ancient heroes have. on the laurels of a job dearly won and well done. good luck.
.  long ago. members of the liberal party in the state of new york. and progressive americans everywhere. lost a great political mentor with the death of alex rose. a dear friend and esteemed colleague of mine for many years. alex rose has been deeply and widely mourned. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the sermon. preached at the community church of new york on january 16 of this year by dr. donald szantho harrington. senior minister of the community church of new york. in memoriam of alex rose of new york be printed in the record.
i would like to say this has been consistently senator nelsons position. it is a highly principled position. the only reason why we reported this bill was. so far as i could see. to accommodate precisely the people whom he has mentioned. but in view of the way in which the senate has acted on publishing the danger in print or in electronic media. this strikes me as the only responsible. properly responsible. way out. if i do finally vote for the billbecause neither he  i is too optimistic about this onei would still like my tribute to the senator to remain of record. he has been completely consistent and completely catholic to the purpose of this bill. and the constituency for which it was intended.
 first. i adopt the argument which has just been made by our colleague from new jersey. and will  repeat it. second. the amendment senator eagleton proposes to offer. which we have read. making exemptions for the fact of an abortion. leaves the employer in a position where. if an employee determines to have an abortion. that employer can take any adverse discriminatory action. he can refuse to hire. he can fire. he can demote. he can deny promotion. he can cut pay. in effect. therefore. the conscience of the employer would be foisted upon the employee. and i can conceive of our acquiescing in any such result. yet that would be the effect of the adoption of so sweeping an amendment as this one. as to the right of an institution like a church which has a religious tenet respecting abortion. that is preserved under the first amendment. and the record should show that it is  our design in any way to invade the first amendment right of such an institution of re.igion. indeed. title vii of the civil rights act itself carries that exemption in section 702. so there can be claim that. as far as we are concerned. we go too far. but the amendment would certainly go far beyond the bounds of reasonableness. let alone of policy. the other point that i have to make at this connection is the size of the problem with which we are dealing. and the thrust of this particular legislation. in that respect. we have very interesting testimony in the record of the hearings at page 68 by dr. andre e. hellegers. professor of obstetrics and gynecology and director of the joseph and rose kennedy institute for the study of human reproduction and bioethics at georgetown university. which is itself a catholic university. dr. hellegers testified to the following points: first. that it is estimated that the ratio of abortions to deliveries of children is 1 to 3. so that we are dealing with about 1 million abortions per year in the country. so large is the problem that this amendment addresses. then dr. hellegers goes on to make the following points. he is being questioned by senator hatch. who crossexamined dr. hellegers very closely and effectively: senator hatch. so you are saying that being against abortion. this would be a good bill from the standpoint of helping to encourage women to have their children and to raise them.
i hope the senate will understand that it is  that senator nelson and i were against the amendment of the senator from new mexico that this whole discussion and result took place. our situation is that this is  in the house bill. that under their unique rules of germaneness. we do  have a prayer with it. but we will take it and we will try with it. i am only giving the senator the factual situation. what this vote does demonstrate. which is what i gather the senator from new mexico desired to demonstrate. is that he has a very viable proposition which deeply interests the senate. which can be fashioned and  put into a bill where it can actually follow through with the other body and become law. in that sense. i am more than happy to take it. i thoroughly sympathize with it and will help to fashion it into what we can actually accomplish as a statutory proposition. so i am entirely agreeable to a motion to vacate the order for the yeas and nays and to take the amendment. but i did  want to do that blind. without explaining the situation to the senate.
the word "entity" is  defined. let us say "entity under this act." we have to say something. the church amendment. which i thoroughly agree with. is section 401 of the act which the senator is seeking to amend. it deals with that. it relates to various statutes and then says. by any individual or entity which brings it under those statutes. this way. we have an absolute statement. "entity."
. last ember. senator moynihan and i were most privileged to receive an award from the stony brook foundation of the state university of new york for distinctive contributions to higher education. at the awards banquet. a very beautiful prayer was offered by dr. mordecai waxman. rabbi of the temple israel of great neck. n.y. dr. waxman has kindly provided me with a copy of the prayer. and informs me that its source is the tractate berakot. the first volume of the talmud. according to dr. waxman. these verses were first recited in the third century at the end of the period of studies in the academy of rabbi ammi. the words of the prayer have survived through the ages and continue to bear a message as inspiring today as it was centuries ago. i hope my colleagues may benefit from this passage: may you behold the world of your aspirations in your lifetime may your heart be set on things eternal may your hopes be builded through many generations may your heart meditate understanding. your mouth speak wisdom and your tongue invite song may your eyes shine with the light of torah. your hands do justice and your feet run to do the will of god. the ancient of days.
. senator case is  here. he is the ranking miity member of the foreign relations committee. i k he would want me to join in our thanks and appreciation for the outstanding service rendered by senator church.  only to our committee and to the senate but to our nation in respect to his management of this historic and very difficult issue on the floor. i would also like to pay tribute to my colleague from maryland. he is by means one of our senior members. but he perceived the need for the kind of assistance which senator church would need if he was to carry this emous burden. and he rendered it in a magnificent way. i am very proud of him. i feel all my colleagues of the miity would wish me to say exactly the same thing. i am very proud of the fact that though a relatively new member he took on this great responsibility and handled it so admirably. i think our whole country should be grateful to him for it.
and a leader in the civic and business life of his native city and state. mr. zellerbach was in every way an outstanding personality. a leader in the business community. an extraordinarily fine citizen. and a great benefactor of his community and of the arts and culture. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed in the record the obituary from the san francisco chronicle of january 30. 1978. and my eulogy delivered at the memorial service for mr. zellerbach. held at congregation emanuel in san francisco on february 2. at which the officiating rabbis were rabbi alvin l. fine and rabbi joseph asher.
finally. . i wish to pay. if i mayand it may sound a little strange but it is truea tribute to senator church for his conduct in this matter. which is very characteristic of him and which i think really brings out the best in a legislator. he had very deep and sincere objections to this bill. he fought very hard against it when the matter was up before the senate and in committee. having felt that the majority really wanted this and having seen that we really stood by all the things we had promised during our conference with the house. he did . as he easily could have. tangle this thing up in a web which would have deferred it for a very long time. he has  asked me to do this. perhaps he is a little surprised i am saying this. but i think his conduct is the finest display of  only the talent but the spirit of this body and of the legislators in it. and i pay my tribute to him.
reserving the right to object. and i do  want to be picky about it. but there is a very different situation. senator church raised his reservation first. i think it should be voted on first. then we shall deal with the kennedy reservation. which is a rather different matter.
. i deeply appreciate what the senator says. but there is a different situation with respect to the kennedy reservation. and i do  want to get confused on that before we vote on the church reservation. the church reservation is the big one and the main one. so let us vote on it. senator kennedy. i am sure. will take a 10minute rollcall if it follows. if he wants one. it will be 10 minutes.
we are all on the same wicket and we are only trying to do what is best. let us remember that the church amendment was defeated by a majority and. hence. you are asking members to change their votes on the church reservation. whereas if you adopt the chairmans suggestion and the slight risk which is involvedit is  great because you can always turn down the treaty as you gentlemen have shownif you adopt the chairmans suggestion you do  require members to stultify themselves. i will vote for the treaty with the church reservation incorporated in it. i can vote for the church reservation. i am  a fool. i opposed it. i think it is wrong. but on balance if i have got a treaty and that is the price of it i am going to pay it. so i really hope that is the route we will go. you also protect yourselves. you have got plenty of votes to turn it down. then it is a tabula rasa. that is where we are right .
 i would like to thank very much the staffjacques gorlin. barry johnson. karin lissakers. janice oconnell and robert russellwho worked very hard on this bill on our side and on senator churchs side. and to express my appreciation for the cooperation of senators heinz and stevenson. and senator church for his always intelligent and active cooperation in getting what i consider to be a very important measure passed.
