. i invite the attention of the senate to a shocking example of soviet antijewish propaganda. in view of the fact that the conferees will be dealing with the foreign aid authorization act containing a resolution which the senator from connecticut and i and other senators have sponsored. expressing the protest of the united states over the antijewish acts which we have revealed are taking place in the soviet union. i therefore should like to have this matter considered by the conferees. this is an officially inspired propaganda publication which defames the jewish faith and accuses jews in the soviet union of disloyalty. and it has just been revealed by bnai brith. it is a new. 96page antijewish booklet entitled "contemporary judaism and zionism." published in kishinev. scene of the infamous czarist pogroms of 1905. by the state publishing house of moldavian soviet socialist republic. this is the second vicious book of this type which has come to public attention this year. the first was the kichko book entitled "judaism without embellishment." and it contained a series of lurid antisemitic caricatures with scurrilous captions of the sort that appeared in the nazi sheet der stuermer. the kichko book was published by the ukrainian academy of sciences. which gave it the prestige of a scholarly production. it was subsequently banned because of worldwide protests including many from communist periodicals outside the u.s.s.r. this new antijewish publication contains telltale illustrations but dences jews and judaism through the use of vulgar stereotypes. misquotations and distortions. its author. f. s. mayatsky. is kn as a soviet propagandist specializing in this field and has written many antijewish articles and books. under the guise of promoting socalled "scientific atheism." he seeks to revive the theme of the orious "protocols of the elders of zion" through such ancient antisemitic stereotypes as the "international jewish conspiracy." this time one in which american spies allegedly work with israel diplomats through jews in the soviet synagogues. and the alleged existence of mysterious elders who plot the involvement of jewish communal and welfare organizations in political activity designed to undermine the soviet government. like the kichko book. this one also attacks judaism as "a form of religious obscurantism * * * a reactionary. antiscientific concept. dences the synagogue as a cover for blackmarket and subversive activities. and describes israel as a state created by american colonial imperialism. it quotes from letters allegedly written by jews describing hardships and horrors they have suffered because of their purported error in leaving the soviet paradise to settle in israel. such arrant sense would never be taken seriously if it had  been published and distributed by the soviet government and if there were  available ample evidence of a soviet government policy of antijewish measures calculated to isolate soviet jews. make them the scapegoats for soviet ecoic difficulties. and eliminate them eventually as a religious miity. this new antijewish publication is again a scurrilous and disreputable document. which has  yet been repudiated in any way. although we hope that it will be. i invite the attention of senators and the people of our nation to this situation as again illustrating strong reasons why the senate took the action it did. and why it is urgent that the house of representatives join us in the conference to allow this to become part of the bill. let me apologize to the majority leader for calling off the quorum call. but i knew that he would accede.
 of the american jewish committee. it is a good one. for antijewish activities by government action and policy in the u.s.s.r. have been going on for a long time. contrary to the laws of man. the u.n. charter. and international morality. we should explore all possibilities of beaming the spotlight of public disclosure on such acts wherever they occur. individuals. groups. and. yes. governments in all areas of the free world must continue to give voice to their indignation over antijewish activities. the hitler madness is all too recent---so is the stalin "doctors plot"- to warn us to speak out in time. there are about 3 million jews in the soviet union. and they constitute the second largest jewish community in the world. they are recognized as a nationality. but they are  given the same rights accorded other recognized nationalities in the u.s.s.r. they are denied any form of community organization and are isolated from other jewish communities throughout the world. but in spite of more than 40 years of persecution and nearpersecution. government pressures. and restrictions designed to discourage religious identification. almost 21/2 millions in the u.s.s.r. in the 1959 census declared themselves to be jews. in spite of soviet claims of religious freedom and denials of the existence of antisemitism because it is a violation of soviet law. there is ample and grim evidence that the soviet government is singling jews out as a group for discriminatory restrictions and extreme punishment. jews and the jewish religion suffer greater limitations and prohibitions at the hands of the kremlin than any other religious groups in the soviet union. synagogue buildings and seminaries have been padlocked. jewish cemeteries have been arbitrarily shut down. and ritual suppliesincluding matzothneeded for religious worship can be obtained. hebrew bibles or calendars are printed. and prayer books are irreplaceable. means for training rabbis and community workers are inadequate or existent. and unlike other religous groups jews are  permitted to establish national organizations. jewish cultural life has been stifled. and the once flourishing yiddish language literature in books. theater. periodicals. and newspapers has virtually been wiped out. there is doubt that the soviet union is very sensitive to charges of antisemitism and prides itself on the law which makes it a criminal offense. but when 89 out of 163 persons sentenced to death for alleged "black marketing" or ecoic crimes. are publicly identified as jews and held up for ridicule. contempt and caricature in the official soviet press. and when a blatantly antisemitic book containing caricatures on the nazi pattern is published under the title "judaism without embellishment" by the ukrainian academy of sciences. authored by one. kichko. and thousands f copies are officially distributed. then it is time to expose the false soviet claim that there is antisemitism under communism and to dence the hypocrisy behind the kremlins denials of antijewish actions. the crude hatemongering of the kichko book was even too much for the communist parties in france. italy. and the united states to swallow. and they protested. and the intensity of protest from all parts of the world finally persuaded soviet authorities to suppress the book. from time to time soviet leaders have insisted that soviet treatment of religious miities is an internal matter and that protests constitute interference in the soviet unions domestic affairs. but similar disclaimers by russia and other nations in earlier periods in our history did  deter the united states from protesting the persecution of jews or other miity groups. since 1840 the united states. while recognizing the principle of intervention in the internal affairs of aher state. has. nevertheless. protested the persecution of oppressed miities by foreign governments and has justified these protests in the name of moral duty toward humanity. this policy has remained valid to this day. this is  the time for silence on the part of american jewry. each great wave of indignation will serve to ultimately alleviate. and will help to prevent aggravation of the plight of the jews in the soviet union. each protest. whether by individuals. by organizations. or by the free nations of the world acting independently or through the united nations. will serve to make the kremlin realize how sterile and harmful to its own prestige is its antijewish policy. i am delighted that many senators have felt as deeply as i and the senator from connecticut have. and hope they will join in this action. this time i hope this resolution will  go down the drain as a part of the foreign aid bill. i appeal to the majority leader and to the miity leaderthough i do  ask for any assurance at this timeto make this proposal a separate basis of action on the part of the senate. because last years action indicates that unless this is done. it will  receive overwhelming support by members of the senate.
