let me just finish. if i might. what we are trying to do. as the distinguished senator from pennsylvaniawho is active in this matter in the finance committee and also in the banking committee. where he has taken a very active role in the trading company act. for instance. of which he was the principal authorrealizes. exports are extremely important to the u.s. workers and that what we are doing here is taking a step toward protactionism. and it is  just a little step. it is a new and giant step toward protectionism. as i said in my earlier remarks. i recognize that we have had a buy american provision in this area for a total of 51 percent. but  for 100 percent that is sought here. and we are thus erecting further barriers against export of american products on which 13 percent of american jobs depend.
let me add that i have been tremendously heartened by the positive support this bill has received. such groups as the cooperative league of the united states. congress watch. the smaller manufacturers council of pittsburgh. and the smaller business association of new england have endorsed it. many individuals from across the country have written to voice their support. i have been particularly heartened by the prospect that the antitrust and mooly subcommittee of the senate committee on the judiciary hopes to schedule hearings within a month. i am encouraged to have received word this morning that the administration fully supports my bill and will work for its prompt enactment. i am grateful to the president for his forthright stand and look forward to working with the administration in this effort to reduce prices for americas consumers. in the weeks ahead. we will hear many debates on ecoic policy and on the course our country should take. there will be honest differences of opinion. i hope and trust that removing the burden of fair trade--of l3galized price fixingfrom the american consumer is one course of action on which we can all agree and can take forthwith. exhsbrr 1 double digit inflation is  haunting the american consumer. in the past six months the consumer price index has risen an average of one and onehalf percent a month. in the past seven years the cost of living has spiraled by almost fifty percent. dollar wages have increased at a brisk seven percent rate over the past two years. but prices have increased even more. we are experiencing the sharpest decline of consumer buying power since the removal of world war ii price controls. it is  time for the congress of the united states to seize the initiative and attack our number one enemyinflation. president ford has held a summit conference on inflation out of which have come many ideas for fighting inflation. in his ecoic address to the congress following the conference. the president presented his legislative proposals. the congress showed itself capable of acting with speed and incisiveness in at least one instance. on september 10. 1974. senator cranston and i introduced the home purchase assistance act of 1974 to provide needed mortgage funds for the suffering home buyer and housing industry. just 35 days later. on october 15th. the final version of the bill had been reported to the floor of both houses. debated. differences resolved. and passed by the congress. on october 18th. president ford signed the bill into law. congress had perceived a need. found a solution. and acted. today. i am introducing aher antiinflationary measure that i hope will command the same cooperation and result in the same incisive and affirmative action. this legislation repeals resale price maintenance laws. it ends fair trade. fair trade laws. also kn as resale price maintenance or quality stabilization laws. have been in effect since the depression. in simple terms. they allow a manufacturer to enter into an agreement with a retailer setting the minimum price at which his identifiable product may be sold. california passed the first law in 1931 and most states followed soon after. it became apparent. however. that these state laws when applied to interstate commerce. violated federal antitrust laws. thus. in 1937. congress passed the millertydings act granting state fair trade laws an exemption from the sherman antitrust act. in 1952. the mcguire act granted state fair trade laws exemption from the federal trade commission act. thus legalizing signer provisions. these provisions. which had been enacted by some states. permit a manufacturer to sign a single fair trade agreement with one retailer. and then enforce the agreement against all other retailers in the state. even though they were  parties to the contract. at the present time. 13 states have valid signer provisions (arizona. california. connecticut. delaware. illis. maryland. new hampshire. new jersey. new york. ohio. tennessee. virginia. and wisconsin). in addition. 23 other states have fair trade laws without signer provisions (arkansas. colorado. florida. georgia. idaho. indiana. iowa. kentucky. louisiana. maine. massachusetts. michigan. minnesota. new mexico. th carolina. th dakota. oklahoma. oregon. pennsylvania. south carolina. south dakota. washington. and west virginia). in all. 36 states have some form of fair trade laws currently in being. the millertydings act and the mcguire act are permissive statutes. they allow states to enact laws that would otherwise be in violation of federal statutes. in effect. they permit states to regulate goods that are in interstate commerce. they provide a federal umbrella for restrictive state laws. today. i propose we remove that umbrella and thus nullify the state laws as they apply to interstate commerce. i propose that we get the federal government out of the marketplace and permit competition rather than restrictive private agreements to fix prices. it is important to e that neither the federal  the state government actually enforce any fair trade agreements. should a manufacturer discover that a valid fair trade agreement into which he has entered is being violated. he must go to court and sue for damages. the government plays role in this action. exponents of fair trade agreements base their arguments on the ecoic and social conditions that prevailed almost a half century ago. in the first part of the 20th century. this country underwent its gravest and most prolonged depression during which real income fell by more than 30 percent. unemployment rose from 3 to 25 percent and more than 200.000 business firms failed. the country was desperate for a remedy so when resale price maintenance was proposed as a panacea to the countrys grave problems. and argued with logic that appeared to be valid. it was quickly embraced. resale price maintenance has long been touted as our savior from the evils of predatory price cutting as a form of competition in which a retail firm lowers its prices in order th draw business away from :ts competitors and eliminatb them from the market. once the predatory firm establi..ies control over the market and somehow prevents any new firms from entering. it then raises prices in order to gain moolistic profits. thus. it is argued. that while in the short run the consumer will obtain goods at low prices. in the long run prices will be higher and the number of stores selling and servicing these goods will be lower. exponents of resale price maintenance often argue that fair trade acts as a countervailing force to the market pwer of chain and discount stores. these outlets are often unjustifiably accused of bait merchandising and plotting to destroy independent retail outlets. however. exponents always fail to e that there are already state and federal laws prohibiting false and misleading advertising. including the use of "bait and switch" and other discredited ruses. it is true that chain stores give retailers a. run. for their money by instituting more efficient marketing techniques and offering less frills. but this should be seen as a challenge to the less efficient retailers to develop new merchandising techniques. rather than asa threat to their existence. however. the evidence. including justice department and other studies. amply documents the fact that more business failures occur in fair trade states than in fair trade statesproving that fair trade does  prevent business failures. the most persuasive study supporting this assertion was done by professor stewart munro lee of geneva college and reported in the spring. 1965. volume of the journal of retailing. professor lee wrote that his "data show perceptible effect of fair trade laws on the. total number of. retail stores. the number of drug stores. or on the rates of failure in retailing in general or in the drug trade. indeed. when one examines the details of this table closely. it appears that. if anything. the fair trade laws have opposite effects to those claimed." this system of state resale price maintenance which. is permitted by federal law reduces competition and restricts our system of free enterprise at all levels of product distribution. the united states department of justice has. estimated that resale price maintenance increases prices on fair traded goods by 18 to 27 percentmany ecoists feel that this increases the consumer price index by nearly 20 percent. conservatively. this costs the american consumer over 2 billion dollars a year in higher prices. for example. a set of golf clubs that lists for $220 can be purchased in fair trade areas for $136. a $49 electric shaver sells for $32. a $1.360 component stereo. system can be obtained for $915 and a $560 19" color television sells for $43. the marketing techniques that have been established by chain and discount stores reduce the markup on consumer goods to 10 or 20 percent rather than the standard 40 to 60 percent. this is. of course. important to all consumers. but particularly to thel 23 million low income people in the united states. in the january 1969. ecoic report of the president. it was estimated that fair trade then coat consumers $1.5 billion ananually. when that figure is updated by the consumer- index. it reveals that american consumers- are  paying a hidden subsidy of $2.1 billion a year for fair trade. to remove that $2.1 billion unnecessary burden from our ecoy would be one of the most. immediate antiinflationary steps* we could take. professor hendrik. s. houthakkr of harvard. a former member of the presidents council of ecoic advisors. wrote an artice entitled. "a positive strategy against inflation" in the wall street journal of july 30. 1974. professor houthakker wrote. "our ecoy has to be made less prone to inflation and more responsive to antiinflationary policies. this means. in particular. that institutional barriers to price declines have to be removed . . . ". specifically. professor houthakker wrote that we could curb inflation by. among other actions. abolishing resale price maintenance. at the same time. the respected publication of the consumers union. "consumer reports. ran an article- in its ember issue entitled. "goodbye to good buys in audio equipment.". following the article was an editorial entitled. "whats fair about fair trade laws.". the article observed that fair trade "confers price fixing power on private individuals without. any recourse for public review of these pricing decisions. while the gover of new york. vicepresidential designee nelson rockefeller described fair trade as an affront to the american system of competitive free enterprise. rockefeller advocates repeal of existing fair trade laws. so does cu." aside from its inflationary effect. one of the most persuasive arguments against resale price maintenance is that it tends to freeze the channels of distribution and retard the advancement of techogy. fair trade helps protect those retail outlets that are unwilling or unable to improve their methods of operation. by restricting competition in price. fair trade provides for competition on the basis of advertising. salesmanship. and essential services. a canadian committee set up to study the problem of resale price maintenance stated that: "the crux of the problem of resale maintenance. is whether the consumer should reap the benefits of the most efficient forms of retailing or ... should be forced to pay more in order to make retailing . . . a more comfortable occupation . . .". in the past. the most vocal support for fair trade legislation has been from the small business community. it is this sector of our ecoy. it has been argued. that would be most injured by weakening or repealing fair trade. yet. one of the most active and highly respected small business organizations in the country. the smaller business association of new england (sbane). vigorously supports the repeal of fair trade laws. in a statement issued on ember 14. 1974. oliver. 0. ward. president of sbane. called fair trade laws anticompetitive and obsolete. i ask unanimous consent that the full text of the sbane statement be printed in the record. immediately following the printing of the text of the bill. businessmen making transactions must have the freedom to change their prices. to increase or decrease sales as they see fit. it is the price of the goods to which suppliers and consumers react. we must permit the retailer to establish the level of service and extras that. he wants to include with the product along with the. right to set the selling price. to permit the manufacturer the right of price fixing places the entire chain of distributton in a straitjacket. resale price maintenance stifles ination and forces production in the wrong direction. it is amply documented that resale price maintenance forces entrepreneurs to engage in. inefficient promotional campaigns in order to develop volumethat is costly for both the businessman and the consumer. the consumer. the- businessman and the country are all best served by a dynamic and competitive system of marketing. we can on the one hand celebrate the beauties of free competition and. then squelch it the moment it benefits consumers. competition forces retailers. wholesalers and manufacturers to provide the consumer the most for his money. a repeal of the fair trade laws will stimulate an increase in productive efficiency. this coupled with increased volume due to lower prices will provide all levels of distribution with increased profits while providing the consumer- more goods at lower prices. resale price maintenance has brought about three major distortions in our ecoy. they are: 1) artificially high prices. 2) restraint of ination and efficiency. and 3) an increased reliance on costly promotional devices that increase pricesthere has been a good deal of talk in the past few months about biting the bullet to stop inflation. the time has come to. stop talking and to act. strong opinion has developed throughout the country to decrease the role of the federal government in business activities so that the ecoy can react to mal market forces. the 1930s were a time of trauma when order in the marketplace was desired: regardless of cost. the 1970s and the decades ahead are a different time with different institutions and different -problems requiring different solutions.  is the time to rid the ecoy of inflationcausing. competitiondepressing. artificial encumbrances. fair trade legislation was an idea whose time had come and has  gone. st z ford ed- with concern an increase in the apparent alarm in the business community over regulatory agencies and promised that his administration would come to grips with bureaucracy. senator brookes legislation is most welcome. many large companies have traditionally favored fair trade laws on the basis of their sheltering effect on the small retailer from the big discounters. we believe that small businesses in the retail field can be competitive and thrive through the flexibility and extra service available from the neighborhood small retail establishment.. laws should  protect inefficient small businesses from the open. market and the overall benefits of the- repeal of the fair trade laws and a return to a more competitive free enterprise system. is- a legislative action to everyones benefit. s. 408 be it enacted by the senate and. house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled. that the first section of the act entitled "an act to protect trade and commerce against unlawful restraints and moolies". approved july 2. 1890. as amended (15 u.s.c. 1). is amended by striking out the colon preceding the first proviso in the first sentence and all that follows before the period at the end of such sentence. sec. 2. paragraphs (2)-(5) of section 5(a) of the federal trade commission act. as amended (15 u.s.c. 45(a)). are repealed. sec. 3. the amendments made by this act shall become effective 90 days following the date on which this act is enacted. by mr. proxmire (for hiniself and mr. stevenson):
i think the report which has just been filed by the distinguished senator from alabama. the chairman of the committee on small business. in relation to exports characterizes for us one of the most striking aspects of our national ecoic life. we are all talking about utilizing to the full the productive facilities which we have. but in the hearings before the joint ecoic committee this morning the director of the bureau of the budget himself had to admit that this is an aspiration. that one has studied to implement it. for example. we need emous quantities of raw materials. most of which we import from abroad. in order that our productive machine may increase its output. it is  simply a question of our having everything we need in this country. making the products. and letting our people enjoy them. if that were so. it would be wonderful. so i think there is being placed before us one of the really fundamental issues in our government. it will take a high order of patriotism for all of us to keep the balance as between imports and exports. i think it is extremely important. therefore. to show. as we are showing in the report from the committee on small business. the stake of small business itself in the expansion of the overseas markets of the united states. many of us talk about the millions of people engaged in production for export. we talk about the raw materials we have to buy throughout the world. we talk about the need for a large balance. in terms of our trade. to help us with our difficulties in international payments. but all that does  become concrete for the businessman until he sees what is at stake for him. as shown by the report which has just been filed by the distinguished senator from alabama. i think a really national service is being performed in the development and issuance of this document.
madam president. from these statistics. i point out the following facts: first. between 1955 and 1959. net sales of the domestic textile industry increased from $13.3 billion to $13.8 billionmore than four times faster than the increase in imports. second. over the same pe.iod. the net sales of 15 u.s. textile weaving. and rayon and acetate firms increased by $821 millionseven times more than imports. the share of net sales on the domestic textile market by tlhese 15 firms increased from 21.1 percent to 26.1 percent. this raises the question of whether the textile industry is feeling the impact of increasing competition of leading manufacturers. rather than imports. it is of special interest to e that during the past 6 years. only 1 of the 15 leading firms discussed here has applied for tariff or quota relief under the "escape clause" and "peril point" provisions of the trade agreements act. third. while net profits as a percentage of net sales for all u.s. manufacturers dropped from 1955 to .959. profits in the textile industry actually increased. fourth. comparisons between 1956 and 1960 show a similar pattern. even though 1956 was a year of high business activity. and 1960 a year of recession. (a) the textile industry as a whole appears to have suffered less from the drop in business activity than other industries. net sales in 1960. at $13.2 billion. were the same as those in 1956. (b) net sales of the 15 leading firms increased by $565 millionfour times faster than imports. their share of the domestic market increased from 23.5 percent in 1956 to 28 percent in 1960. (c) net profits as a percentage of net sales held up remarkably well. compared to the average for all u.s. manufacturers. and the profits of all 15 leading firms actually increased from 3.8 percent in 1956. to 4.3 percent in 1960. i believe that all this must be viewed in the light of total textile imports. which increased. over this 6year period. from $428 million to $609 million. these imports actually declined during the 195758 recession. the decline of imports of cotton manufactures. which has been proceeding at an accelerating pace since august of last year. indicates that a similar drop probably has occurred in other textile imports. which usually lag some months behind the state of business activity in this country. some broad questions arise from these statistics: first. in view of the availability of substitute products and the time lag between business activity and imports. can a quota system hope to protect the elements of the textile industry which really are hurt by import competition. unless it blankets the whole industry. in short. do they need quota protection. or do they need help in terms of greater efficiency in their industries. relocation. retraining of workers. and opportunities to enter into new lines and new activities which could be afforded by an adjustmentassistance program. i believe the latter is very definitely the answer. second. can the united states and the great majority of textile manufacturers afford a quota system which blankets the whole industry and would also give protection to producers who have over the past 6 years increased their share of the domestic market by onethird. this seems a very serious disadvantage for small business which needs help. third. are the less efficient textile producers actually feeling the effects of techogical advance and the increasing competitiveness of the larger manufacturers rather than imports. primarily. net sales in the apparel industry increased from $6.9 billion in 1955 to $11 billion in 1960. while imports increased from $79 million to $228 million. this industry is so highly competitive that significant trends can be detected among leading producers. except that their profits average two to three times higher than those of the whole industry. imports represent a small percentage of net sales. so. while. of course. they affect with great impact some lines. they are  a major volume factor in the industry as a whole. i believe the discussion of these facts may help to put the domestic effects of import competition in textiles and apparel into better perspective. in terms of the action to be taken and the policy to be pursued. the broad picture that emerges shows clearly that the united states can meet foreign competition and that attempts to isolate ourselves ecoically would be to the disadvantage of most consumers and most producers in this country. the joint ecoic committee "study of employment. growth and price levels." completed in december 1959. and the senate commerce committee "study of the united states and world trade." completed in march 1961. both found evidence that the united states is pricing itself out of world markets. except in isolated instances. in the calendar year 1960. our $3.2 billion increase in exports and $600 million decrease in imports. resulted in a $4.9 billion balance of trade surplusa result which certainly would  support the contention that our industries overall can compete in world markets. the fact is that u.s. quality. performance. and servicing are sought after in most of the world in connection with a high proportion of our fabricated industrial exports. however. even though labor costs have risen less in the united states than in most industrial countries. our industrial productivity has lagged behind. since our wage rates were considerably higher than those of our competitors. to begin with. and since they are likely to remain so for some time to come. we must increase our rate of productivity growth. this is especially true of industries where wage rates have always tended to follow the national trend. while production techniques did  develop as fast. the challenge we face is in the field of productivity. it is a challenge which can be met successfully only within our own borders. it is for this purpose that i have proposed the establishment of a peace production board which would lead this nation in a productivity drive. such a drive would be severely hampered by a policy of ecoic isolation. its success will depend in large measure on the international exchange of techniques and ideas. which is a major byproduct of international trade. and on the stimulus of foreign competition to u.s. production and invention. its success also will depend on an expanding market abroad for the goods we produce. therefore. the emphasis must be  only on whether we are hurt by imports. but also on how we are helped by exports and the expansion of those exports. one of the major channels of this international interchange of khow is provided by the overseas investment activities of american business and the trade resulting from the establishment abroad of subsidiaries. there are  many rumors regarding the fact that foreign subsidiaries are sending their goods into the united states. i think we must look squarely into that situation. a department of commerce survey of 150 of our largest manufacturing companies with overseas subsidiaries. prepared for submission to the house ways and means committee on june 22. 1961. gives the following revealing picture: during 1959. subsidiaries of u.s. companies. excluding paper. pulp. and foodstuff producers. were responsible for $328 million of imports into the united states. as compared to more than four times that amount1.429 billio u.s. exports directly to them. during 1960 this ratio doubled to nearly 8 to 1: imports dropped to $213 million. while exports rose to $1.625 billion. . so. on the whole. the establishment of subsidiaries abroad has been very helpful. rather than very damaging. to our foreigntrade position. and. indeed. has very materially reduced the import competition suffered by the united states. these manufacturing companies. ranging from producers of automobiles to those producing office equipment or sewing machines. have  only established oversea markets for the products of their u.s. parent companies. and they  only represent a steady market for capital equipment and other united states exports to supply their own needs. but they are also in the strategic position of operating in the very countries whose productive techniques have. in many instances. begun to outstrip our own. thus. they become a prime source of the kind of kledge we need in order to continue in our position of free world leadership. only after we have arrived at a solution of the domestic problems of trade expansion can we turn our full attention to the challenges which demand it and press in upon us from the outside world. the next point is the increasing momentum of the soviet bloc trade drive. certainly we do  live in a vacuum. the rapidly growing momentum of the soviet bloc trade drive demands a massive response from us. between 1954 and 1959. soviet bloc trade with 41 nations in the developing areas of the free world increased by 165 percentfrom $860 million to $2.3 billion. during the same period. u.s. trade with these nations increased by only 19 percentfrom $7.8 billion to $9.3 billion. it is obvious that the united states is still far ahead. however. the ratio of u.s. trade superiority over the soviet bloc trade has been reduced from 9 to 1 to 4 to 1. furthermore. preliminary figures indicate that. while soviet bloc trade with these developing nations may have risen by aher 20 percent during 1960. u.s. trade increased only 3 percent. added to this picture is the fact that the soviet bloc has signed a growing number of bilateral trade and aid agreements with free world nations. between the end of 1954 and may 1. 1961. these bilateral agreements increased from 148 to 313almost all of them with developing nations. as these agreements are implemented by a rapidly rising flow of trade. the soviet bloc is seeking to mount an "irresistible" campaign to draw these nations into ecoic dependence. with the eventual consequence of political domination. let us consider that situation very carefully as we consider what we shall do about our foreign trade policy. madam president. we are contemplating a great foreignaid program. i favor it very much. between 1954 and 1960. while the united states has been sending an annual average of $1.5 billion in ecoic loan and grant aid to the developing nations. we increased our imports from them by only $700 million. etheless. the 1960 total of our imports from them enabled them to purchase about three times as many of the goods which they need for ecoic development than did our ecoic aid. as these nations build their industrial potential and increase their ability to sell abroad. the united states must give them an opportunity to compete fairly in our domestic market. furthermore. we must insist that the industrialized nations of western europe open their markets to the products of the developing nations. too. for instance. the elimination or sizable reduction of sumptuary taxes on coffee by germany. france. and italy would enable latin america to sell between $60 million and $100 million more coffee a year. thus making a welcome addition to the precariously low foreignexchange reserves of the latin american nations. it is selfcontradictory to speak of increasing cooperative ecoicaid efforts to the developing nations. without also planning to buy their products which eventually can put their ecoies on a selfsustaining basis. this is a further reason why i believe the administration must face up to the trade issue. while it presses for its new foreignaid program. if the administration hopes to achieve its new foreignaid program by permitting our trade policy to be reversed. it will be seriously damaging the foreign ecoic policy of the united states. i doubt that the new foreign aid program can be "bought" on such an unrealistic basis. or that a foreign aid program so "bought." matter what may be in the fine print. can really be effective. the trade adjustment assistance approach can conserve what is best in the reciprocal trade agreements program as we have carried it on and prevent its breaking down because of injustices to some businesses and workers. the authority in the president to phase out tariff protection over a period of 7 years can provide for the needed transition to take care of stresses and strains created by the reciprocal trade agreements policy. it is to be ed that fundamentally change is recommended by me in the "escape clause" or "peril point" provisions or in the national security provisions of the existing trade agreements act. what i am suggesting is a way in which to meet the objections to the program as they have developed since it was last renewed. instead of adopting drastic changes which will seriously hurt  only the reciprocal trade agreements program. but our peace leadership of the free world as well. americans have far more to gain in respect of exports than to lose in respect of imports. our exports last year exceeded our imports by $4.9 billion. aggregating $19.6 billion. while our imports. aggregating $14.7 billion. really only represented $7 billion of comrletitive goods. the balance of our imports. consisted of essential materials and other commodities which we need and do  produce here. trade expansion.  trade contraction. is the major ecoic offensive for freedom we must wage. the peace leadership of the free world csalls for discipline. selfdenial. and statesmanship. particularly in view of domestic pressures. the fidelity of our country to its often proclaimed belief in a. world of increasing trade is an acid test of our determination to exercise a wise peace leadership in which the whole free world can have that confidence we esteem and require. i ask unanimous consent to have various editorials and articles inserted in the record. at this point.
. this is an important bill. which has a widespread interest. especially today. i understand that it is only a 30day extension but i should like to ask the senator from louisiana whether there are any facts or figures available as to how it is operating today. both in terms of our balance of payments problems. for which it was originally devised. and in terms of the high interest rate we have  only in this country but also the very high interest rates  being paid by our banks with regard to eurodollar borrowings abroad. i should like to ask the senator whether the finance committee is going to look into the general network of questions which are involved so that when we do come to act in a definitive way. we will have that body of information.
