. i ask unanimous consent that in connection with these reopinion of gen. hugh s. johnson which appeared in the washington daily news march 22. a statement accredited to ambassador william c. bullitt which appeared in the washington herald on march 28. and an editorial appearing in the washington post march 27. 1938. i further ask that the opinion. statement. and editorial be referred to the committee on the district of columbia.
. although i was  privileged to k mr. wigglesworth personally. like all citizens of our commonwealth i knew of his illustrious career and his unselfish contributions to the common good as a lawyer. scholar. soldier. as a distinguished member of this body. and as the respected ambassador of this country to our neighbor on the th. his life. characterized by steadfast devotion and uncompromising dedication to the ideals of truth and justice. serves to remind us all that our nation will endure only if the most able of our citizens offer their best efforts in the cause of liberty. among his many achievements. his work in the field of national security affairs marked him as an outstanding patriot. certainly man did more to insure that the republic was ever ready to thwart the aggressive designs of those who would deny us of our freedom than did dick wigglesworth. the republic is the richer and the stronger for his service. i join my colleagues in extending my deep sympathy to his family.
 of the united states to bring up the baltic states question before the united nations and ask that the united nations request the soviets to withdraw all soviet troops. agents. colonists. and controls from lithuania. estonia. and latvia. to return all baltic exiles from siberia. prisons and slavelabor camps. and that the united nations conduct free elections in lithuania. estonia. and latvia under its supervision. i further wish to associate myself with the remarks of my colleagues on the floor of this house yesterday in support of the captive nations resolution introduced by our very able colleague. the gentleman from pennsylvania . as leader of the free world. we can do less than affirm the u.s. determination that one day all nations will rejoice in recapturing their liberties.
 to raise the question of the baltic states before the united nations and ask that body to request the soviet union to withdraw their troops and agents from the three nations. to return the baltic exiles from soviet exile and slavelabor camps. the united nations should then conduct free elections in these three nations.
with the gentlemans permission i should like to read a couple of paragraphs from this article. it is clear that american diplomacy can make up its mind what to do about the middle east. returning to washington last weekend. one of the shrewdest operators the united states has ever stationed in the arab lands. confided his opinion that american policy in the area is in an unholy mess. does the gentleman agree with that statement.
. we become so absorbed in the individual problems that the united nations discusses. that we lose sight of its overall objectives. today we have an opportunity to stand back and look at the world organization in perspective. i have little patience with those who would acclaim the united nations as the only hope for world peace. or who would condemn the organization as a communist plot to weaken america. both of these attitudes reflect inability to face up to the complexity and difficulty of international problems. the real picture. as in so many other fields. is a mixed one. the united nations is one approach to the achievement of an important international goal: a peaceful. stable world in which nations of diverse political. ecoic and social systems. religious beliefs and cultural traditions can live in relative harmony with one aher. such a world will never be possible until we can develop standards of conduct and behavior which will be respected throughout the world. we can ni more afford to permit nations to overstep their bounds than we can permit a landowner to trespass on the property of his neighbor. the united nations is the product of wartime hopes tempered by peacetime realities. those who believed in 1945 that the establishment of the united nations would put an end to world tension have been sobered by the realization that we have embarked upon a voyage bolder than has been attempted before in human history. we should  be surprised or discouraged because the products of centuries of distrust. suspicion and desire for national aggrandizement have  been eliminated in 18 years. . as has been alleged. has the united nations operated against the interests of the united states. the general assembly. on the contrary. has adopted the u.s. position on resolutions against the 50megaton bomb. practices denying the tibetan people of their independence. the continued thwarting of u.n. objectives in korea. and the seating of communist china in the u.n. concern has been expressed in recent years that the large number of newly independent afroasian nations would weaken the u.s. position in the united nations. of course. there will be disagreements on specific policy issues. but we must realize that we can and should  control the opinions and actions of the whole world. national independence. if it is to be meaningful. must encompass independent political beliefs as well as independent governments and ecoies. we must  interpret disagreement with a specific u.s. policy as a rejection of the principles of freedom we support. nations who have so recently gained their independence are  likely to surrender it lightly. to the totalitarianism of the soviet union. why specifically. should we continue our support for the united nations. first. if we are to create a climate in which freedom can flourish. we must have "an untrammeled flow of words in an open forum." second. the united nations is an important multilateral peacekeeping agency. it can resolve local disputes and prevent them from escalating into a worldwide conflagration. third. the world organization is an important educational tool. the reports and studies undertaken by the united nations have enlightened the world on subjects ranging from the peaceful uses of atomic energy to the political status of women. in the limited time we have today. we can hope to touch upon all the contributions being made by the united nations. we can. however. take the opportunity to reaffirm our faith in the principles which underly the united nations and to assert our continued willingness to cooperate within this framework for the creation of a harmonious. antitotalitarian world.
. the mexican academy of international law is an old and hoed institution whose members number among the most distinguished international lawyers and jurists. . the academy was founded in 1810. born in the mexican independent movement. when miguel hidalgo established the first mexican independent government at guadalajara. he requested lawyer ignacio aldama to formulate a foreign policy for mexico. aldama held meetings with mexicos distinguished lawyers. and from this alliance the academy was created. in ceremonies last month. two distinguished americans were admitted to the academythe u.s. ambassador to mexico. the hoable thomas mann. and alabama congressman armistead selden. chairman of the house subcommittee on interamerican affairs and fifthranking member of the house foreign affairs committee. the academy also awarded to congressman selden the mexican order of law and culture. a decoration given to those who through international affairs and diplomatic service contribute to the advancement of world peace and the fraternity of all peoples. one of the directors of the mexican academy of international lawdr. ezequiel padilla. long kn as the chancellor of the americas--delivered the address at the october 11 ceremony welcoming congressman selden to membership in the academy. the importance of dr. padillas remarks and the response of our colleague. the hoable armistead selden. merit their inclusion in the record.
. i rise in support of h.r. 9022. the cost to the united states. $312 million over a 3year period. of an increased authorization for the international development association will reap tremendous rewards in terms of strengthened facilities in the developing nations of the world. in addition. it carries out one of the main goals of our foreign aid effort--that of encouraging multilateral sharing of the aid burden. some 17 nations will participate in the proposed new authorization. thus for each $1 of american funds. an additional $1.40 will be contributed by other participating countries. in addition the new subscriptions will bring about a reduction in the total share of the united states in the activities of the association. ida. which was created in 1960 to enable countries to obtain development capital for important ecoic infrastructure projects. responded to the difficulties a number of nations were having in meeting the stringent requirements for world bank or private capital loans. administered by the world bank staff with a view toward feasibility and ecoy. the association has lent almost $600 million to 18 countries in a 3 year period. the level of expenditure is modest. but the approach sound. the multilateral character of the association  only encourages the increased participation of other free nations in the strengthening of the developing countries. but frees individual projects from political overtones. the policy recommendations of the banking and currency committee will further strengthen the operations of the fund. the proposal that u.s. participation be proportionately reduced in any future authorization increases and the suggestion that loans be made in currencies other than the dollar to the greatest extent possible are in line with recommendations made by the foreign affairs committee and by the house in considering our total foreign aid effort in the past. i urge support of this legislation as a constructive step in the direction of viable ecoies in the developing nations and an important sharing of the foreign aid burden among the nations of the free world. in my view. ida has produced commendable results thus far. the requested increase is a reasonable one and deserves our support.
s who proceeded me have already stated. i would simply like to stress a few developments which are worthy of our attention. first. the objectives of the program have been sharpened during the past year. second. its scope has been narrowed. selectivity has replaced the scattergun approach. we are concentrating our aid in fewer countries where the promise of success. and the will to selfhelp. are most clearly in evidence. third. the administrative machinery of the agency for international development has been improved. fourth. greater participation of private enterprise has been secured for this undertaking. and. fifth. our european allies. and some of those on other continents who have benefited from our aid. have increased their own foreign aid efforts. . i urge that the bill pass.
. i should like to address myself particularly to those of my colleagues present who would like to see our share of these expenses reduced. as i believe nearly all do. i believe. by virtue of the language which the gentlemans amendment contains. there would be a result the gentleman did  intend. i speak specifically of the peacekeeping operations which previously were mentioned. the exception in the gentlemans amendment refers exclusively to the united nations emergency force. the amendment would  except other peacekeeping operations. which may be in operation  or which may come at any time in the future. conceivablyand i believe this point is importantif we were limited to making a voluntary contribution of 331/a percent. and if funds were  available from other sources. from other nations. the net result would be that if there were a peacekeeping operation. clearly in the national interest of these united states. we would be giving the soviet union a veto over our action. i do  think there is a person in this body who wants to do that. but if you support this amendment. you are potentially giving the soviets a veto over the foreign policy of the united states.
. i have before me a penetrating and obviously unanswerable article. i happen to k that the data set forth in the article are accurate. the article by robert s. allen and paul scott. which appeared in the aiken standard and review. aiken. s.c.. under date of august 10. is entitled "soft loans with hidden grants in foreign aid budget will cost taxpayers $800 million- over the next 40 years." i ask unanimous consent to have this article printed at this point in the record. it refers to one of the gross frauds of the foreign aid program.
. it was my privilege to serve on the u.s. delegation to the interparliamentary union meetings in copenhagen under the gentlewoman from new york outstanding leadership. her opening remarks set the tone for what was to be a fruitful exploration of the role of representative assemblies and legislators in the modem world. the caliber of u.s. delegates to the copenhagen meetings was uniformly high. for example. the gentleman from new york. congressman alexander pirnie. made important contributions in the individual discussions and in his address concerning the use of the united nations charter in the development of a meaningful international community. the participation of the united states in the ipu may be one of our most important international contacts. the opportunity for exchange of opinion and experience between legislators is unparalleled in any of our other diplomatic contacts. i was hoed to be included in the u.s. delegation and proud of the initiative and leadership of our chairman. the gentlewoman from new york . i hope that all members of the house will give their careful attention to the remarks of the gentlewoman from new york and the gentleman from new york. congressman pirnie. at the conference and i am inserting them in the record so that they will be available to everyone:
s decision that the united states stands prepared to attend and participate in an international monetary conference is particularly welcome. as congressman ellsworth said on june 28: there is an obvious need for an international conference to develop a system leading to expanded liquidity and to discuss the processes of national adjustment to international disequilibrium. there is some danger that the conference will  be held until the liquidity crisis is already upon us. just as the secretary emphasized that any such conference be preceded by careful preparation and international consultation. congressman ellsworth correctly observed that "to meet and  succeed would be worse than  meeting at all." for this reason. the secretarysendorsement of mr. ellsworths suggestion that a preparatory committee could serve a useful purpose is particularly important. for as mr. ellsworth said: such a commission could give order to the separate discussions and provide continuing evidence of a multilateral commitment to the effective resolution of international financial problems. finally. the secretarys statement reflects our judgment that the future course of international monetary stability can be sought within the framework of the international monetary fund. we hope that the secretary will keep in close touch with the congress as his plans develop.
s appointment last week of jack hood vaughn as director of the peace corps is particularly fitting in light of his broad background and experience in community development work around the world. however. while we congratulate mr. vaughn on his new post. we should extend our thanks for a job well done as assistant secretary of state for interamerican affairs and u.s. coordinator of the alliance of progress. although he served in this post for only about a. year. he rapidly distinguished himself and won the respect of our latin american neighbors. his 965 factfinding and goodwill trip to latin america was marked with a warm reception and a genuine respect for his abilitv and his dedication to the best interest of the hemisphere. mr. vaughns perception of developmental problems has been sharpened through his service with the usia in bolivia and costa rica. with the foreign aid program in panama city. mali. and senegal. and with the peace corps as director of latin american programs. his diplomatic service included a year as our ambassador to panama before he assumed the post of assistant secretary of state. i feel sure that his broad background in information. community development. and diplomacy will serve him in good stead as director of the peace corps. we wish him well in this new position for he has earned our gratitude and respect as an outstanding public servant.
. over the years there has been significant republican support for the foreign aid program. but those of us who have supported the program have consistently believed that the program needed improvement. to that end a group of republicans in the house has worked for several months. developing recommendations which might be made to the executive branch of the government. which could effectively improve the foreign aid program.
 valencia said: i wish to say of the embassy of the united states of america in colombia that there we have always found comprehension. sympathy and help when we have gone there in search of support. i wish especially to recognize the american ambassador to colombia. mr. covey t. oliver. as one of colombias best friends.  only in his role as ambassador of the united states but also as a person who has applied his extraordinary intelligence. his vast erudition. and his splendid character. along with a thorough understanding and all good will. which make him permanently outstanding among his peers. for these reasons. i wish to state today. when i have hing to expect from him. that he merits the admiration. the gratitude. and the affection of the republic and its people. this is a remarkable tribute to a remarkable ambassador. i k that ambassador oliver will be missed in colombia and in the department of state as he returns to the teaching of law at the university of pennsylvania. i am sure that we all wish him continued success in the years ahead. and hope that his talents can be brought into government service again in the future.
 ed how ecoic deprivation can strain the political fabric. citing the unrest and doubt about democratic methods during our own great depression he said. "by peaceful means we rebuilt our society." the key word there is "rebuilt." we. at least. had a tradition of relative order. we had channels of political and popular expression that could exercise leverage on governmental decisions. how much more difficult it is for the latin american peoples. many of whom lack a tradition of democratic progress. to build a society by peaceful means. i have been encouraged this year by the increase in attention and focus being given to this problem of civic development: the strengthening of the ability of government to administer development. and the growth of popular participation in the decisions of that government. in the foreign aid authorization bill passed by the house a new title ix expressly authorizes and encourages aid to direct its programs* in a manner that will encourage democratic development. the house foreign affairs committee made it clear in its report accompanying the bill that it expects to see results. in a recent article for washington world magazine. i elaborated on the need for greater attention to the development of hemispheric human resources. under unanimous consent i include the text in the record following my remarks. . as we mark this fifth anniversary. we can take pride in what has been accomplished to date. but our achievements are more a hopeful indication of what can be done than a source of satisfaction. i have long believed that our relations with latin america are the most important set of international relations we have. the alliance for progress is one way to order those relations in a partnership of mutual cooperation. i congratulate the officials of the alliance for the achievements to date and i urge them to continue and strengthen their efforts in the future. the remarks follow: republican initiatives ror latin america
. congressman frank horton. of new york. an original sponsor of a permanent peacekeeping force in the united nations. is on an official leave to israel representing the house of representatives at todays dedication of the new israeli parliament building. mr. hortons resolution. house concurrent resolution 711. contains a provision for allocating a force of 1.000 americans to serve in a combatant capacity on standby duty for a permanent u.n. force. mr. horton has asked me. in his absence. to stress the importance of prompt congressional adoption of this proposal. so that the u.s. delegation to the united nations will seek the establishment of a peacekeeping force at the next session of the general assembly with the full support of congress behind their plea.
. this week a distinguished son of massachusetts came home after completing a second tour of duty as u.s. ambassador to south vietnam. henry cabot lodge fulfilled this public service with the same competence. good judgment. and devotion to duty that he exhibited as a u.s. senator from massachusetts and as u.s. representative in the united nations. this morning the washington post saluted ambassador lodge for handling "every assignment with tact and skill." i include this editorial in the record at this point:
s. he was also disturbed by the failure of the alliance thus far to ignite the spark of commitment in the youth of the latin american nations. this kind of balanced thinking is essential to any effective attack on the massive problems that remain throughout the hemisphere. progress has been made to be sure. but we can rest content with its pace. far more must be done to involve the people. all of all ages. in their own development process. and the first step toward the accomplishment of this task is the recognition of its importance. this the ambassador has done. and i include the text of his remarks in the record:
. this morning. in their column "inside report" which appears in the washington post. rowland evans and robert ak highlight the apathy over the past several months of the administration to the obviously deepening crisis in the middle east. while our department of state apparently paid little heed to the clear warnings of impending disaster coming from the field. a number of republican leaders have called for greater u.s. attention to the persistent conflicts in that troubled area. senate majority leader everett dirksen suggested a reaffirmation of the tripartite agreement of 1950 in his republican state of the union address. in january. senator jacob javits of new york urged a bigpower conference to discuss these issues before violence took place. the failure of the administration to act points up the dangers of preoccupation with one crisis. at a time when others with perhaps more farreaching implications lie just over the horizon. more than a year ago. speaking before the massachusetts junior chamber of commerce i asked: can we afford the luxury of preoccupation. if we have learned anything from our twenty years as a global power. we should have learned that our role demands filexibility of response .... can it be said that our policymakers have become so absorbed in the crisis of the moment that they have lost perspective on the forces and the problems that will confront us for years to come. the middle east is certainly in that category. the evansak column this morning suggests that this question still has relevance. both for the middle east and for other impending world problems. i include the column in the congressional record. and commend it to the attention of my colleagues.
 johnson pointed out. only a "first step" toward peace in the middle east. although it is significant that agreement was reached by the security council. it does  redeem the action of secretary general u thant in precipitously acceding to demands to withdraw unef troops.  the inability of the united nations to prevent the outbreak of violence in the first instance. the success of the ceasefire proposals consistently urged by u.s. ambassador goldberg since the outbreak of hostilities is a hopeful sign that peace can be restored to the middle east and it is able that soviet support could be obtained. in way. however. can it cover the failure of our diplomacy. the obvious unpreparedness of the state department for the entire situation.  the unfortunate statement of "neutrality" by mr. mcclosky on june 5. we may yet avoid a wider conflagration. but we can longer continue along the lines of simple micawberlike hope that things will turn out well. after 3 days of fighting. israel appears to have advanced to strategic points in sinai. the straits of tiran. and along the west bank of the river jordan. the progress toward peace made by the u.n. resolutions has been strengthened from the beginning by israels agreement to a ceasefire. conditional upon the agreement of all involved parties. today in the security council the united arab republic ambassador annced that egypt was willing to agree to a ceasefire resolution if israel would also accept. the u.n. and the united states have an unmistakable opportunity and an unmistakable responsibility  to use every diplomatic means to secure full and effective implementation of the ceasefire provisions. such action is even more important in view of todays accidental firing on the u.s.s. liberty by israel forces. a highly regrettable incident which calls for a stern warning to all sides. this occurrence points out with alarming urgency the necessity for the united states to continue and intensify its efforts  only in order to avoid further incidents of this kind but also to stop all violence. clearly. the situation is still  out of the danger of escalation. while we continue to urge acceptance of the ceasefire resolution by all parties concerned. preparations should begin for the establishment of machinery. under the auspices of the u.n.. to allow negotiations between israel and the arab states. and we should call for the early restoration of a u.n. presence to guarantee the ceasefire. the settlement of the current crisis must include a guarantee of the right of free and inent passage for all ships through the straits of tiran and the suez canal. full acceptance of the territorial integrity of israel. and the cessation of guerrilla warfare across its borders. the united states must show determination to ho its longstanding commitments and state its position definitely and clearly. to reinstate any part of the former territorial status without a firm commitment on our part. and without the machinery to guarantee that the settlement will be preserved. would simply postpone aher crisis. furthermore. it is obvious and understandable that israel would  agree to return to a situation in which. as israel foreign minister abba eban stated. the u.n. could pull out its protective umbrella "as soon as it begins to rain." we can expect israel to accede to a request for withdrawal of troops and the surrender of captured territory. as was done in 1956. without explicit guarantees that it will  have to face a similar situation in aher 10 years. if  sooner. we also have a clear responsibility to work through the united nations to provide for agreement on a lasting longrun settlement of the issues in the middle east. this means seeking solutions to the basic and deeprooted conflicts which have divided the middle east since israels birth as a nation in 1948. the ingredients of settlement include: realistic recognition of the right of israels existence as a nation. permanent agreement on specific borders. and the settlement of the palestinian arab refugees. e of these aims can be accomplished unless it is within a framework of definite international guarantees. the united states must clarify its commitment to peace. and to the territorial integrity of all middle east states. and seek an international guarantee similar to the 1950 tripartite declaration. the possibility for progress in the middle east will increase as peace is insured and stability spreads. i hope that our government will seek to widen the areas of common interest in the middle east with the u.s.s.r. by seeking talks leading to agreement on the limitation of the arms race. it is my hope that the new cabinet committee. formed as belatedly as it was. will come up with more imaginative suggestions than have been presented to date to deal with both the present crisis and the longrange perspective. there are. even . clear areas where cooperation and regional development are possible among the nations of the middle east. such as water use and development. these are projects for the united nations and the united states to study and encourage in our mutual efforts to promote progress and peace.
. in response of the comment made by the distinguished majority leader. i would merely point out that what my colleagues and i advocate is unique and distinguishable from that which the administration has already pursued. in that it involves a first step being taken by the united states. followed by intensive communication. by intensive diplomacy with the other side. in order to obtain a limited deescalatorystep that is comparable. measurable. verifiable. i believe that at time has the administration so divided this terribly complex problem into a series of smaller and hopefully more achievable steps.
i thank the distinguished speaker of the house. . let me just say in closing. that we conscientiously believe that what we have proposed here today is something that is worthy of consideration at the very top level of the executive branch of our government. we think it does provide for a significant u.s. initiative at minimum military risk. we think what we propose will stimulate the other side to make the kind of response that we would like to see. there is panacea for vietnam and the proposal offered here is certainly  put forth as a panacea. without doubt. it can be improved but we honestly believe that the best chance for peace lies  in giant power and giant concessions. but that it lies in small steps taken quietly. steps that make the position of each side credible to the other side. this in our view is  the task of responsible diplomacy in vietnam.
. i am hoed to join my colleagues today in tribute to a respected colleague and friend. charles a. halleck. miity leader in 1961 when i entered the house as a freshman member of the 87th congress. charlie hallecks advice and friendship will always remain uppermost in my memories of these past years. his retirement will remove from congress one of its most colorful battlers. a master political tactician. and a loyal republican. as charlie halleck completes his 17th and last term in the house of representatives. he may look back on 33 years of dedicated service to house and party and an impressive and brilliant record of leadership. after the 1958 elections. with the party at its lowest ebb since the days of the new deal. charles halleck took over the republican leadership of the house. outnumbered nearly 2 to 1 in a democratic congress. the republican miity leaned heavily on his drive and ability. and under what seemed to be almost impossible circumstances. miity leader halleck came through with the inspired and forceful leadership to carry out the eisenhower program. under the first session of this leadership. republican unity in the house increased from 66 percent to 77 percent. he galvanized the republican miity into an effective force equal to that of the 83d gop congress. he revamped and revitalized the house republican policy committee to provide a cohesive gop approach and created a new spirit of unity between the white house and republicans in congress. in the immediate postwar years. he helped push through the original marshall plan and the truman doctrine to aid greece and turkey. in the eisenhower years. the first republican administration in 20 years. he became a stanch supporter of foreign aid and reciprocal trade. he swung his weight behind the civil rights bill of 1957. and under his leadership in the 2d session of the 86th congress. republicans succeeded in passing the second civil rights act since the civil war. despite his intense partisanship. he enjoyed friendship and respect from both sides of the aisle. with characteristic drive and devotion. he has weathered bitter political disappointments to become one of the most highly skilled leaders in u.s. politics and one of the most competent political pros in congress. it is with a special sense of sadness that i witness his decision  to run for reelection this year. but i k charlie halleck will never really retire in spirit from politics and the success of the republican party. i send my warmest and sincerest wishes to my colleague and his family as they plan the future.
. they are  limited to a consideration of foreign aid. those at the other end of pennsylvania avenue recognize that there is a total package. consisting of a whole series of foreign assistance items. of which this bill is but one. the interamerican bank bill is aher. the aid program bill is aher. and various other loaning program bills are others. in fact. i think the senator from missouri referred to italthough i was  on the floor of the senate when he didor mentioned it as an appendix to his speech. i refer to the items listed under the heading. "progress toward further grants of foreign aid through soft loan affiliates." this gives one example of the kind of problem that confronts us:
. i truly appreciate this opportunity to pay tribute to a very great american. the hoable w. averell harriman. gover harriman. whom i have been hoed to count as a friend for some years. is a highly dedicated. selfless man who has given most of his life to public service. and has just completed one more critical task in a long series of valuable contributions to the public good. there are few men in american public life who have demonstrated over the years the unflagging devotion to duty and willingness to accept responsibility that has been the hallmark of averell harriman. his activity in public affairs goes back to 1933 when he became a member of the business advisory council for the department of commerce. since that time he has served with great distinction as u.s. ambassador to the u.s.s.r. and great britain. in addition to serving as ambassador at large on a number of important assignments for his country. as chief u.s. negotiator at the vietnam peace talks in paris. gover harriman devoted himself to an undertaking that required all of his emous abilities and extraordinary experience. his wisdom. patience. and sense of history served the nation well in this most challenging position. he discharged his responsibilities in paris with great ho and characteristic dignity. he deserves great personal credit for the fact that negotiations are  underway. or to put it in his own words. "the negotiating procedures were put on the rails and the new administration will have the responsibility for the substantive discussions." he has been an advocate of the united nations and its importance in our world for many years. in 1946 he warned our country that the "chief hope of the world is collective security through the u.n." he was early to recognize the threat of communist expansionism yet early to understand that we must learn to live with those powers who have a different ideology than our own. gover harriman is one american about whom egh good can be said. his biography is long and thoroughly impressive. but the thing i find most important about this man is his deep human concern for peace and understanding that is so very important for the serious times in which we live.
i shall  interrupt the senator further. i shall discuss the point in detail later. i only wish the senator to k that. in my opinion. we have violated the united nations charter time and time again in south vietnam. and that we can justify it on the basis of carrying out the seato treaty.
. the urgency and immediacy of securing the safety and the release of the hostages being held by arab terrorists and preventing further hijackings must  blind us to the need to stop the continued military buildup in violation of the standstill ceasefire  delay our working to set up a new ceasefire agreement. the events of the past days do  change but rather. make even more important than ever. the basic imperatives that motivated the original ceasefire. negotiations toward a new ceasefire are especially critical  only because of the dangers inherent in the continued military escalation. but also because failure to renew our efforts for some agreement will play directly into the hands of those arab commandos whose goal is to disrupt any possibilities for progress toward peaceful settlement. hesitation or reluctance would but reward and encourage tactics intolerable to the civilized world. our colleague from new york and former u.s. ambassador to israel. the hoable ogden r. reid. has urged negotiating a new standstill ceasefire which would include the rectification of violations. in his recent letter to the new york times which follows my remarks. he has set out in the most realistic and responsible terms. the challenge and the task before us. i can urge strongly egh my colleagues attention to his recommendations. for the alternative to meaningful u.s. action can be but renewed hostilities. and disastrous consequences:
. there are few men who have as great a kledge of interamerican affairs and as deep an understanding of the problems of developing countries as does my good friend. covey t. oliver. presently serving on the faculty of the university of pennsylvania law school. having served as the u.s. ambassador to colombia. from 1964 to 1966. as assistant secretary for interamerican affairs from 1967 until his appointment as u.s. executive director of the world bank group in 1969. covey oliver has contributed greatly to our understanding of the problems and to our perspective on development assistance. he has recently written an outstanding article on new problems of social development for the ember 1970 issue of the foreign service journal. and i am pleased to bring it to the attention of my colleagues:
does  the senator agree with me that we should proceed. through our chief executive and the state department. to an immediate understanding with our allies in the united nations as to what their position is concerning united nations treatment of communist china. which today is killing american boys by the thousands.
 of the united states was fully aware of this change in the funding procedure when the request came to the congress. we are  bookkeepers. we are members of the legislative body. and we have to consider what the effects of our actions are going to be to the various relationships we have in this world. we have many reasons to be piqued at the conduct of the united nations. with the expulsion of taiwan. and the assertion of the veto in the southeast asian situation. but. gentlemen. i urge you to support this amendment. a former colleague of ours who heads the u.s. delegation to the united nations and if you want to complicate his job and make it almost impossible then support the committees position. but if you want to prevent this body from taking the kind of irresponsible actions that the other body on the foreignaid issue has taken in recent weeks. i urge you to support this amendment.
. action by the government of the united states in demanding that partition of palestine. as recommended by the general assembly of the united nations.  be abandoned and supplanted by a united nations trusteeship. is appalling. it may prove tragic.  only where it concerns the jewish people of palestine. but in its effect upon the future of the united nations and upon the influence and prestige of the united states. largely because of insistence and pressure on the part of the united states. the partition of palestine was recommended by the united nations general assembly. more than any other nation we assumed the responsibility for the establishment of the jewish state in palestine. . because the united nations and ourselves are confronted with serious difficulties in effectuating the plan of partition. our government urges that pdrtition be dropped. but these difficulties were visible or foreseeable when partition was approved by the general assembly less than 4 months ago.  we propose as an alternative a temporary trusteeship under the united nations. whose exact form is yet to be determined. but there are evident already obstacles to any plan of trusteeship. which might prove more serious than are those confronting partition. in fact. it is a matter of record that the general assembly considered a proposal for trusteeship and turned it down as being less desirable than partition. are we  to insist upon a trusteeship and later. if it is adopted. counsel that it be abandoned for something else or for hing else when perchance the going gets tough. is this the plan of the national administration. is there to be a complete surrender of principle to expediency. of idealism to opportunism. i k that this wobbly. catchascatchcan. willothewisp policy does  represent the character of the american people. . k that the great moral and spiritual values. which are the real foundation of americas greatness. are still dominant in american character. i k that the american people want their government to act as they would act. aiding the persecuted and the oppressed. defending the rights of the weak and the small. cherishingabove allthe sanctity and ho of our given word. the time for plain speech by the administration is long overdue. absolute candor with the american people and with the world is needed  most of all. if we are so defenseless as a nation that we dare  speak out and must resort to clever device and devious maneuver. then let us k the worst. let us k in order that we may prepare for the worst. let us k in order that national unity may be restored as rapidly as possible. let us k in order that through unity and preparedness we may be able again to exert in the world the influence for justice and peace which should be ours. and let us k the truth about palestine. let us k why we should abandon the plan for partition because it is hazardous and substitute for it a plan for trusteeship which would appear to be just as hazardous. let us k why it is necessary thus to place the united nations and our own influence in jeopardy. let us k why we should  stand by hoable commitments or keep faith with those whc have relied upon our integrity.
i tried to listen as attentively as possible to the reading of the excerpt. but i did  gather from its reading that ambassador austin himself had made such overtures. he simply made the broad statement. did he .
. following appropriation of the necessary funds of the congress. to bring into effect on the part of the united states the loan agreement of the united states of america and the united nations signed at lake success. n. y.. march 23. 1943. introduced by mr. ives. was read twice by its title. and referred to the committee on foreign relations.
. on behalf of the senior senator from new york [mr. wagne a and myself i ask unanimous consent to submit a concurrent resolution stating that it is the sense of the congress that the action of the yugoslavian and hungarian governments constitutes persecution for political and religious beliefs and violates the charter of the united nations. the resolution further declares that. as a member nation. the united states should submit to the next general assembly of the united nations the issues raised by these deplorable incidents.
i merely wish to ask the senator if he does  recall that the item of $65.000.000 for the united nations was a loan. and  a grant. my question does  indicate that i am  in full sympathy with the expression  being made by the senator from new hampshire.
there is evidence as to how much time would be taken. but the senator from new york would point out that on page 3 of the bill there is a precaution which was inserted by the committee when the bill was reported to the effect that the commission or any member thereof "may. when authorized by a majority of the commission. for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this act. hold such hearings. and sit. and act at such times and places. and take such testimony as the commission or such member may deem advisable." of course. under the terms of the bill the temporary commission could carry on its activities and go anywhere it chose. we thought it advisable to have this precaution. that neither the whole commission  any subcommittee thereof would be permitted to act in any capacity of the nature indicated or in any other capacity without the authorization of a majority of the whole membership. therefore it would seem that the activities of the commission should  in and of themselves require a great deal of work which would take the .commission or any of its members away from the city of washington. they might possibly go to the city of new york. where the united nations has its headquarters. but very . likely  much beyond that. on the other hand. the senator from new york would like to point out that in view of the fact that the legislative branch of the government is primarily the policymaking branch. it certainly should have as much to do with the determination of policies and activities where the federal government is concerned as does the executive branch. it seems to me most advisable that on any commission or organization of a temporary nature which may be created the congress of the united states should be definitely represented. therefore the senator. from new york feels very strongly that this particular proposal does possess a great amount of merit. the senator from new york has been a member of the subcommittee working in the particular field where international organizations are concerned during the past 2 years. and realizes. i think. probably better than some others. the great need for a survey such as is contemplated by the. bill.
. together with the distinguished senior senator from connecticut i have prepared a resolution. which reads: whereas the arrest. confinement and trial of archbishop josef groesz in hungary evidences anew the abridgment and violation of fundamental human freedoms guaranteed in the treaties of peace and reaffirmed in the united nations charter: . therefore. be it resolved. that it is the sense of the senate that these actions should be strongly protested in the united nations or by whatever other means may be appropriate. i ask unanimous consent to submit the resolution and ask that it be appropriately referred.
. in the first place i want it distinctly understood that i am strongly in sympathy with the s iator from montana in submitting this resolution. however. i quite agree with the distinguished senator from ohio that it does  hit exactly at the object. the goal. or the target at which it is presumably aimed. in other words. those in the satellite countries who are being persecuted are being persecuted presumably by soviet stooges. and the wording of the resolution should contemplate this condition. there is one further suggestion which i think should be followed in this connection. and that is that the resolution should be further amended so that our government will be urged to bring this situation to the attention of the united nations for appropriate action. presumably it should be handled through the instrumentality of the united nations. and  by direct contact between our government and the government of soviet russia. i think that such a provision should be added to the resolution. on january 21 last i issued a statement which i released in connection with other remarks i made before the jewish labor committee. which was assembled here in washington at that time. the statement which i released read as follows: like every other decent american. i deplore the soviet persecution of the jewish people. to all who are acquainted with the soviet record. however. the present outrageous and inhuman treatment of those of the jewish faith residing behind the iron curtain should  be surprising. i call upon the government of the united states. through the medium of the united nations. to take all possible action to bring these soviet outrages before the bar of world opinion to the end that they shall cease. i kent copies of that statement to secretary dulles and. to ambassador lodge. chief of the united states mission to the united nations. from secretary dulles i received the following reply:
i think the purpose of the amendment is obvious from its text. i wish to commend the committee on foreign relations for the resolution which they have drafted and placed before the senate for consideration. it is inclusive. and it covers the important points which. it seems to me. should be covered by a resolution of this type. however. i feel that in the last resolvethat is. the second resolveit would be well to go further than the resolution  gods. the second resolve  reads as follows: resolved further. that the president of the united states is hereby urged to take appropriate action to protest. particularly in the general assembly of the united nations. against these outragesi concur wholeheartedly in that statement. but it -seems to me that. in order to pin down our intention and action. we should go one step further. in order to take that one step. i have offered the amendment. which the clerk has read. the amendment continues the second resolve. as follows: in order that the united nations shall take such action in opposition to themthe "them" referring to the outragesas may be suitable under its charter. it seems to me that. instead of calling on the president to urge the united nations to act purely as a debating society in this particular instance. it would be better if the resolution as modified by this amendment were to be adopted. and the president. acting through the united states delegation to the united nations were thus to be requested to act. insofar as such action might be possible. to the end that the purpose of the resolution may be realized through appropriate action taken by the united nations. in other words. it seems to me that the general assembly. instead of merely debating the matter contained in the resolution. should itself at the least adopt a resolution protesting and condemning the conditions cited in the first resolve of the resolution  before the senate. this is the reason why i have submitted the amendment to the resolution. i hope it will be agreed to.
. at this point in my remarks i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the text of a memorandum from ambassador tarchiani to secretary of state dulles. under date of july 6. 1953. and also the text of a letter from ambassador tarchiani to secretary of state dulles. under date of .there being objection. the memorandum and letter were ordered to be printed in the record. as follows:
. the supplemental appropriation bill which the senate passed on august 19. provided funds for educational. scientific. and cultural purposes in israel under the informational mediums guaranty program. the. importance to the united states of these prospective expenditures in israel is underscored in two letters to mr. bernard katzen. a distinguished new york attorney who went to israel. as the representative of the secretary of state. to determine the best uses of this money. these letters to mr. katzen are signed. respectively. by our ambassador to israel and the united states representative to the united nations. i ask unanimous consent that the letters be printed in the record. at this point in my remarks.
. i can longer remain silent in this debate. i have great respect for my distinguished colleague from new hampshire. i. too. am concerned about some of the costs involved in the foreign aid program. i am sure that we do have clear balanceofpayments problems. and i believe we can cut down on some of our foreign aid costs in some areas. but it seems to me that the debate in the house has  been directed clearly and affirmatively to leaving with the various embassies and the chiefs of mission that we have throughout the world the tools and the flexibility with which to conduct effective and well administered foreign aid programs. i do  believe that it is wise to support a proposition that would raise our loans from threefourths of 1 percent to 2 percent. this reduces the flexibility. very clearly there are some areas of the world where we must make low interest loans. we must help build roads and other public facilities. this can only be conducted by some of the governments. there are free enterprise entities to do it. to the extent we do  help in the construction of some public facilities which are  revenue producing we can also hurt the development of the private sector in many of these countries. in the case of the technical assistance yrogramthis program can be and over the years has been very important. this is the guts of our foreign aid program. a number of administrations have supported it. it is essential. in my opinion. in many areas of the world. if we wish to cut foreign aid. that is one matter. but let us  cut the tools and the flexibility of our program. let us  handcuff our ambassadors in the field. in the tc programs there are a number that have been phased out. i was one of those who on instructions from the state department phased out our first tc program in israel. because in that country they had developed the skills and techniques necessary. the program had served its purpose and israel was already exporting some of these skills. i can assure you in all earnestness that this tc and development grant program is important. it has been the backbone of our usom and aid missions. i believe it is essential to the effectiveness of our foreign aid program. a number of these tc programs can be phased out. but we should by all means support. and vigorously support. the tc programs in a number of areas where we need technical experts. where americans have to go in and help the people in connection with health. agriculture. industry. marketing. schools. public administration. and a variety of technical services. this i think is essential.
s first major u.n. address. i would like today to speak briefly with regard to two amounts that could be affected by this cut. the first is the united nations emergency force-$1.18 million. the second is the united nations relief works agency for palestine refugees in the amount of $17.2 million. united nations emergency force. in my judgment. is important to keeping peace in the near east. this 5.300 member multinational u.n. force is essential to keeping down incidents on the israelunited arab republic border. and a substantial cut in united nations emergency force funds could be adverse with reference to peace and trigger hostilities on a sensitive border. the second amount relates to united nations relief works agency. this amount. i repeat. is $17.2 million. it involves 1.2 million refugees and 882.000 who are drawing rations and health services from united nations relief works agency. the 22percent cut. if applied. would affect men and women presently receiving minimal rations and relief at the rate of 8 cents per day. or $28 per year. that would bring it down to 6 cents per day. further. we have been making progress in our diplomacy in shifting from relief services to vocational and educational programs. toward a solution of the refguee question. above all. . the united states is still engaged in trying to seek and build peace in the near east. and anything that would disturb seriously the refugee question or that could lead to increased incidents in the area would be a clear disservice to peace. i have talked recently with our ambassadors in the area. i believe they would state were they here on the floor today that any serious cut in these funds could drastically hamper their efforts toward building a peace and keeping the uncertain peace in the area.
 eisenhower. i served in that administration and participated in the program. i have seen it function. and it works well. i would like to mention six points: first. the ida serves to marshal additional ecoic development resources for developing countries from the industrialized countries of the free world at a rate of $3 to every $2 from the united states. second. the ida provides assistance on liberal terms which are badly needed by many recipients of ida credits. third. ida credits have been concentrated in countries which are also of primary interest to u.s. objectives. india. pakistan. turkey. colombia. chile. tanganyika. china. and korea. in that order of ida commitments levels. and. therefore. are an important supplement to u.s. interests. fourth. ida supports the collective arrangements of the world bank and do countries by providing assistance to developing countries which are the subject of consortia and consultative groups. these include the first four countries mentioned in point 3. and the ida contribution is taken into account in planned levels of u.s. participation in such groups. fifth. u.s. contributions to ida are carefully considered in formulating estimates of u.s. bilateral aid program requirements: thus. the failure of the ida could result in an increase in those estimates. sixth. ida is rapidly running out of resources with which to make future commitments. and denial of u.s. participation would jeopardize the contributions promised by other industrialized countries. failure to participate in the proposed increase in ida resources would undermine confidence in u.s. intentions. visavis developing countries. i hope that ida will be supported in a bipartisan spirit by the house today. it is an important and a welladministered program.
 of the subcommittee. the gentleman from ohio . is particularly concerned. also. about the foreign service and is doing all he can to support it. however. i would ask the gentlemans attention and ask if i may inquire of him with respect to one or two matters in this bill. first. as i understand it. under h.r. 6277. you are establishing a new category of officersfaos or foreign affairs officersunder section 6. is that correct.
. may i ask the gentleman further whether under section 16 he thinks it is a wise provision to extend the authority to the foreign service staff officers subject to the advice and consent of the senate. to give them diplomatic status as well as the consular status that they may be accorded . i raise this specificallyfor if they become first or second secretaries in an embassy. this will presume considerable judgment and tact and kledge of the diplomatic service.
i thank the gentleman. but i would point out that it is my understandingi do  have the figures on the fsss. but as to the fsrs as of today there are 1.378 in the department of state. 1.379 in the u.s. information agency. and 3.355 in aid. the only point i would like to ask the gentleman about again is this: i believe it is the sense of this house and of the distinguished foreign affairs committee. that it is basic to back the foreign service officers. to keep them as an elite corps. to insist on the lighest educational and other qualifications and to give the fsos the satisfaction of belonging to the top corps in the u.s. service. a group that truly has significant responsibilities--the gentleman from ohio said earliermaking judgments that can affect peace or war. i hope the gentleman might wish to reaffirm the importance that the house and his distinguished committee accords to the foreign service officers in their full support without any dilution of this service. their dedication. and their standing.
. i think it is essential that the united states make clear. as ambassador goldberg did yesterday in the united nations. that we support "the independence and integrity of all states in the area. israel. syria. and all other arabic countries." more important. there is a clear obligation for the united nations security council to act. the united nations has a chance to defuse a critical situation which could escalate. specifically. it is my hope that the united states will contribute to the drafting and support of a substantive resolution containing an expression of disapprovalbased on the factsof these fedayin attacks as contrary to article 3 of the israelsyrian armistice agreements. further. i would urge that this resolution call on the parties to the armistice agreements to reaffirm their commitment to the agreements. and to the u.n. charterably article 2. paragraphs 3 and 4. it is my conviction that prompt security council action is of the essence. hopefully. the u.s.s.r. will consider the merits of  exercising a veto. a majority of the security council members will support such a substantive resolution. and the sense of the security council action will  be lost on damascus.
. i would just add one specific recommendation. i think it is essential for the united nations security council to act and to work out a substantive resolution which would make clear the councils disapprovalbased on the factsof fedayin attacks and call on the parties to uphold the provisions of the israelsyrian armistice agreements and the u.n. charter.
first i commend the majority leader for his statement and the president for his clear statement of the u.s. position. i believe it is useful to point out that the next 48 hours may be particularly critical. ships. as i understand it. are scheduled to reach the gulf of aqaba and the strait of tiran for that period. there are. however. several points which i believe should be made.  1. president nasser has made plain in a recent speech thatthe israel flag will  pass through the aqaba gulf. our sovereignty over the gulf is  negotiable. further. he has indicated that the blockade would apply to israel ships carrying supplies to eilat. this clearly. as the president and the majority leader have pointed out. is contrary to international law and our clear commitments to free and inent passage in the gulf of aqaba and "through the strait giving access thereto." i believe that president nassers statement should also be viewed in the light of the fact that since 1956 israel cargoes or ships have been permitted the right of free and open transit in the suez canal. a right which was unanimously affirmed by the security council on october 13. 1956. when. in six principles. it made clear that the canal should be insulated from the politics of any country. so it is a very serious matter for israel when both the suez and  potentially the gulf of aqaba are being blocked. i would merely add i hope that u.s. diplomacy. the efforts of the secretary general of the united nations in cairo. and the emergency meeting of the security council today will find ways of reducing tension and. lastly. of impressing on the soviets that it is very important they caution restraint in cairo and in damascus and that president nasser take step to implement the decision he has annced.
 johnsons statement of the 23d. the secretary ed that the word neutral is  an "expression of indifference" in light of our commitments and our "heavy responsibilities as a permanent member of the united nations security council." but the question is  one merely of indifference. we must show  only our concernbut our resolve to stand by the commitments we have solemnly pledged. we must reaffirm that the united statestrue to its wordwill work within and without the united nations. to effect a ceasefire. to guarantee the territorial integrity and independence of israel. and to assure the paramount right of free and inent passage in the gulf of aqaba and through the suez canal in consonance with our stated policy going back to 1956 and the unanimous resolution of the security council of october 13. 1956calling for the operation of the canal "insulated from the politics of any country." . today the united nations faces perhaps the most critical test of its peacekeeping abilities in its 22 year history. the indian representative to the security council is reportedly prepared to offer a resolution calling for the withdrawal of armed forces to the positions occupied as of june 4. the acquiescence of the council to this resolution would constitute recognition by. and the imprimatur of. the united nations on an illegal act of aggression undertaken by the united arab republic in clear contravention of generally accepted principles of international law. the united states should oppose the indian resolution. we should work for either of a ceasefire in place or a ceasefire which would return armed forces to their positions prior to the illegal blockade of the gulf of aqaba and conditioned upon free and inent passage into the gulf. the united nations must take action. but it must act with ho.
the gentleman did  hear me correctly because what i said was that the retention limit should be lowered similar to what has occurred in japan. taiwan. and the philippines and korea. if the gentleman studied the record. he would find that ambassador bowles. our ambassador to india. and professor prosterman at the stanford research institute. currently one of the advisers to the department of state. feel that action here is imperative. specifically. ambassador bowles has said: the team of american specialists who sparked the reforms in japan. taiwan. and south korea made a similar effort in south vietnam in the mid1950s. however. reactionary forces in the diem government and lack of strong support from the united states blocked the necessary changes. if this effort had succeeded. it is unlikely that american troops would  be involved in this tragic country. fighting against peasant guerrillas. agrarian reform. particularly in countries without large tracts of uncultivated lands. is easy matter. in a democracy. where the rights of private property are respected. it is particularly difficult. for land reform is almost inevitablyif mistakenlyassociated with coercion and expropriation. whatever the obstacles may be. it is difficult to see how any developing country can achieve political stability or rapid ecoic growth unless it puts the land into the hands of the men and women who till it. the record of the united states in this area has by and large been solid and constructive. our recommendations to the japanese. south korean. and taiwanese governments have resulted in enduring agricultural revolutions. still tens of millions of asian. african and latin american peasants are still held in semifeudal bondage by traditional patterns of landownership and tenure. the liberation and integration of these peasants into the mainstream of 20thcentury life is essential to democratic development and. in the final analysis. to international stability. it is an issue on which the united states must take a firm and positive stand.
. i rise in support of the amendment of the gentleman from california . because the hour is late. i shall  take the full 5 minutes. however. there are one or two points i would like to make. the united nations development fund basically is a fund that supports an expanding world econy. it is in the interest of u.s. trade. it provides basic seed money for development. as the gentleman from new york
. i am concerned about the reduction of $37.620.000 in the funds requested for multilateral organizations. this cutback would allow only $85 million for these vital programs and would particularly affect the operations of the united nations development program. undp is  receiving $100 million a year from the united states. this generates almost twice as many dollars from the developing countries assisted by undp. in 1970. undp has a total program of $225 million which generates almost $450 million. our investment. therefore. is one that has a significant multiplier effect. more importantly. it is very much in the american interest to speed the development of developing countries. beyond the obvious humanitarian reasons. undp assistance helps to encourage productivity which in turn increases real income in the recipient nation. these nations then become customers for american exports. and surely there is argument over the fact that we need foreign importers for american products. while there has been some concern expressed over the ability of undp to handle an increased program. mr. paul hoffman. undp administrator. informs me that he has assured the gentleman from louisiana that changes are being made in programing and operation. i have full confidence in mr. hoffmanns proven ability to manage a successful program of whatever size and surely there is justification for a reduction in the ongoing appropriation. the united states has a direct ecoic interest in the work of the united nations development program and i would hope that the funds will be restored to their full $100 million level in the senate.
first i would like to commend the gentleman for taking the time and showing the initiative to call the attention of this house to the critical importance of recent events in the near east. in my judgment there has been a shift in the balance of power adverse to israel resulting in substantial measure from the introduction of sam sites in the united arab republic around alexandria. cairo. the aswan dam. and reportedly along the west bank of the suez canal. in addition to that. as the distinguished gentleman from florida well ks. the soviet union has taken an unprecedented step in introducing combat pilots into the united arab republics air force. this is unprecedented except for one exception in yemen that i am aware of. accordingly. it is very much my hope that the president will at an early time make an affirmative decision to provide israel with the phantoms and skyhawks that are essential to maintain her deterrent strength. finally. . i think we need a policy of diplomacy and firmness to avoid hostilities and to secure peace.
. i would like to commend the gentleman from new york for taking this initiative. there is question but that the conditions evidenced by the terrorism acts in south africa have deteriorated. that the light of freedom burns with more difficulty in that country all the time. and yet there are voices speaking out continually for freedom there. in the progressive party or in other parties or amongst the students of the national union of south african students. i think the fact that south africa is a signatory to the human rights convention for the united nations should serve as a daily reminder to the world that the government of that land has  wholly upheld the provisions of that document. that human rights are in jeopardy  only in southern south africa. but are jeopardized daily. more than that. the gentleman has discussed the possible decision of the united kingdom relative to a change of policy which would permit the sale of arms to south africa. the gentleman from new york joined today with 46 members of this house and of the other body. including seven members of the other body. in a letter to the secretary of state. mr. rogers. as well as in a statement by members of congress on the proposed sale of arms to south africa. i would like to make several points about that. first. i ask unanimous consent to include in the record at this point the text of that statement and of the letter to secretary rogers with the signatures of those who joined in the letter and in the statement.
. i rise in support of the amendment. i commend the gentleman from georgia for offering it. i would point out that jack kennedy once said that unfortunately us. policy in southern africa was determined by a strip of concrete in the atlantic. this comment still bears far too much validity. as we have seen in our own governments actions in the united nations. let alone our supplying of portugal with boeing aircraft or our doctoring of munitions lists and definitions to create loopholes to enable the selling of herbicides to portugal. the united states has been in a tiny miity in its policy of obstructionism. at best. and of implied assistance of portugal in its efforts to retain control of its afrfcan territories. . even in the face of numerous allegations of violent massacres in the tete district of mozambique of up to 400 persons. the u.s. government remains silent. we in the congress must broaden our horizons to inform ourselves and to act. when necessary. in support of peoples seeking independence and liberation from colonial rule. the amendment offered by the gentleman from georgia does much to assist us in that role. quite frankly. i believe it is already late. but we still have time to recognize that the united states can and must exercise levers ge on portugal. in order to work toward the process of independence and majority rule for angola. mozambique. and guineabissau. for the future. one thing is certain. change in what is  portuguese africa will occur. nation or allied nations can prevent this. the only question is whether there will be peaceful change or violent change. i believe that it is up to the statesmen of the world. and indeed to the congress of the united states. to give diplomacy a chance. and to bring about peaceful change rather than violent change. again i commend the gentleman from georgia and urge support of the amendment.
. first let me commend the gentleman for his statement and reaffirm to the members of this house that israel has upheld to a remarkable degree maintenance and rehabilitation of holy places. including open access thereto. much has been done to restore historical and archeological sites. they have worked closely. as the gentleman has said. with unesco in upholding the principles of the unesco constitution so very dear to israels deep commitment to scholarship. excellence in education. and intellectual exchange. let me say. moreover. i think the fundamental point the gentleman is making is. very basically. the united nations today stands in some jeopardy. we saw a similar period in the 1930s in the league of nations. quite frankly. what has the action of the 18th session of the unesco general conference proved. the excluding of israel from the original european groupings subject to a determination of the director general is in violation of unescos own constitution. particularly article i. paragraph i of article i. for instance. states the purpose of unesco as contributing to peace and security by promoting collaboration among the nations through education. science. and culture in order to further universal respect for justice. for the rule of law and for the human rights and fundamental freedoms which are affirmed for the peoples of the world. without distinction of race. sex. language. or religion. by the charter of the united nations. this action taken by the 18th session of unesco is. i think. violative  only of its own constitution. but of the u.n. charter. as well. specifically of the preamble and articles i and ii. if there is any concept that is paramount to the vitality and the integrity and the honesty of the united nations. it is respect for all nations. "large and small." and avoidance of interference in internal affairs. it is very clear in paragraph 3 of the unesco constitution that unesco is to deal solely with educational. scientific and cultural matters and  political matters. specifically. article i. paragraph 3. states: 3. with a view to preserving the independence. integrity and fruitful diversity of the culture3 and educatfonal systems of the states members of this organisation. the organisation is prohibited from intervening in matters which are essentially within their domestic jurisdiction. accordingly. i think this is an opportunity for this house and. indeed. our government. speaking through this house. to say that this is a moral position and must be upheld. i am hopeful that the unesco director general will deny implementation of the resolution. i v ould point out that although israel contributed $111.096 to unesco in 1974 and $98.496 in 1973. for the 197374 biennial. israel received only $24.000. while israel has been a leader in intellectual and cultural exchange. its monetary benefits from unesco have been minimal at best. the position we take here today is thus  an ecoic or financial oneit is purely a question of conscience.
 of the american can co.. presided at the luncheon. the guest of ho was cesar balsa. selfmade outstanding mexican businessman. hotel owner. friend of the united states and kn as the "host to the most in mexico." he received the advertising clubs distinguished achievement award. the overflow audience heard an address by the hoable francisco cuevas canci ambassador from mexico to the united nations. and the chairman of the day was j. l. blackledge. of the electrical league of new york. the fine acceptance speech by cesar balsa deserves wider circulation. and so i include it here for my colleagues.
. as a member of the subcommittee on insular affairs of the interior and insular affairs committee. yesterday. monday. june 12. on official business for said committee. i attended at the united nations in new york city. the 34th session of the trusteeship council for the trust territory of the pacific islands for the annual report and hearing of the administering authority. the united states. i was. therefore.  present on the vote on h.r. 7476. rollcall  131. to authorize adjustments in the amount of outstanding silver certificates. if i had been present. i would have voted "aye."
. our justifiable concern for the situation in the middle east has shunted into the background our deep and misguided involvement in the conflict in vietnam. which continues to devour our young men and to waste our substance. the most recent view of the situation was expressed today by our former ambassador to india. john kenneth galbraith. and i bring it to the consideration of my colleagues.
. on saturday. ember 4. at the carnegie endowment international center at 46th street near the united nations in my district. i was privileged to address the assembly of captive nations. their meeting was to ackledge the 50th anniversary of the soviet union. and to put it in true perspective as communist imperialism. the agenda of the meeting follows including the opening remarks of chairman george m. dimitrov. the address by vaclovas sidzikauskas. and the declaration by rapporteur jozef lettrich. which declaration was unanimously accepted by the delegation:
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks an article by l. michael hager of the agency for international. development entitled "foreign aid is domestic aid. too." this article makes some excellent. frequently overlooked arguments for how foreign aid makes a positive contribution to our national security.
the senate soon will consider s. 588. the international development assistance act of 1979. this bill will authorize appropriations for fiscal year 1980 bilateral assistance and international disaster assistance programs. i urge my colleagues to consider the arguments in the attached article when deciding how to vote on this important bill. (from the los angeles times. may 30. 1979] foreign aid is domestic am. toogive-
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a letter that appeared in todays washington star. written by the senior senator from illis . dealing with the ination of mr. thomas watson. jr.. as ambassador to the soviet union.
 has chosen very wisely in the selection of mr. thomas watson. jr.. for the post of ambassador to the u.s.s.r. i support his selection enthusiastically and commend it to my colleagues who serve on the foreign relations committeeand to my colleagues in the senate as a whole. i thank the senator from indiana for permitting me to interrupt his remarks. i suggest that my comments appear wherever he suggests in the record.
ial commission on world hunger concluded last year: each major cause of hunger could be averted or overcome if the human community were to act cooperatively and decisively - the persistence of hunger reflects a lack of sufficient political will to eliminate its causes. the hunger elimination and global security act. of which i am a cosponsor. is intended to help foster the political will required to end hunger. in my view. the hunger and global security act. which focuses on the problem of hunger* and malnutrition and. attacks it on a variety of fronts. is one of the most important pieces of legislation the senate will consider this term. this bill greatly strengthens.- antihunger objectives and provisions in ongoing u.s. programs by emphasizing international cooperation and selfreliance in the developing countries. in u.s. bilateral programs. this bill will require recipient countries both to establish selfhelp measures. insuring that the primary beneficiaries in food aid programs are the truly needy. and to enter into basic human needs agreements which set forth measurable and quantifiable development objectives such as reductions in infant mortality and increases in literacy rates. it also mandates that at least 50 percent of u.s. development assistance finance productive f acilifies and other goods and services. such as irrigation facilities. rural feeder roads. safedrinking water supplies. and health and family planning services. on the multilateral side. this bill directs the administration to enter into discussions with other countries to establish common objectives and cooperative measures designed to attack the hunger problem. these include pressing the world bank and other multilateral development banks to adopt policies requiring that at least onehalf of their development lending shall target .the poorest income groups. insuring that the food financing facility recently approved by the international monetary fund effect the maximum feasible reduction in hunger and malnutrition. and encouraging other grainexporting nations to cu.tablish their own food security reserves or to take other measures that will comnplement the u.s. food security reserve. this is comprehensive legislation which takes the essential steps to move the world community toward the elimination. once and for all. of the unnecessary persistence of hunger and malnutrition in the world. it will  increase budget costs.  will it establish new programs. but it does what is needed. it gives priority to hunger solutions in existing programs. and it seeks to commit the united states and the world communityas we have never been committed beforeto ending hunger on this planet. as a cosponsor. i strongly urge all my colleagues to support this legislation.
that was the case. but it is my clear understanding. from testimony both from the secretary of state in the prior administration. secretary vance. and others. that far. greater steps are  being taken to conceal the identities. to provide socalled cover for our agents. it is  perfect. however. as the senator ks. the state department is very jealous of certain prerogativeswhat is a foreign service officer. for example. so the cover is  perfect. so those americans. with diligence. some kledge. classified materials. indeed never having dealt with or having been cleared in any way for classified material. can. by intense activity. produce lists that. while  perfect. come fairly close to the mark of disclosing who the agents are. in our language here. we always say "alleged agents" because that protects us. but unquestionably they are accurate egh to cause concern.  there we are. this is what happens. on the other hand. we send american men and women abroad on dangerous missions on behalf of this nation. it seems to me we can continue to permit the publication of these names while at the same time we are funding. urging. and supporting wholeheartedly in this congress the activities of these agents that we send abroad.  what do we do. what is the answer.
i would like  to read from testimony that ambassador brock gave in the finance committee. he did  appear there in connection with this measure. there have never been any finance committee hearings on this measure of the junior senator from ohio. we had hearings on this buy american provision. ambassador brock was there on aher matter. at the conclusion of his testimony on the other matter. i asked himthis is from the record: mr. ambassador. we are  involved in the roads and the tax program. in the house it is my understanding that they put on this bill a socalled buy american provision in which all steel and all cement must be purchased in america. could you give us your thoughts on that. ambassador brock. i am very much opposed to that. it does senator chafee. could you speak up a little.
let me just continue. i recognize that the senator from pennsylvania was  suggesting that. but let us make it very clear that in my remarks earlier. i clearly went into that and indeed i quoted from ambassador brock on the subject.
as the senator ksperhaps he did  have a chance to hear the letter from ambassador brockthat case was resolved under the existing procedures of the countervailing duties. as you k. the bud co. dropped its actions.
. i believe that the auto quotas are a serious mistake. i commend highly ambassador brocks firm stand. and i applaud his determination  to ask the japanese to renew the quotas next year. i ask unanimous consent that a copy of the article referred to be included in the record at this point.
. we have in h.r. 3398 an opportinity to enact trade legislation which improves our world trading system and assists american exporters to gain a greater share of that global trade. protectionist proposals will kill this bills chances of passage. hurt the american ecoy and american jobs. while at the same time help dismantle the international rules by which we are all governed. the world trading system has been under tremendous pressure since the global recession of 1981 and 1982. we certainly face serious problems in our trade relations with others. our trading partners have trade barriers which are both unfair and frustrating to americans. i do  believe that our workers and industries must accept the use of unfair practices by foreign competitors in their effofts to penetrate u.s. markets. the bill we are considering today contains many elements to counteract those unfair practices and to strengthen our hand in the world trading system. we will merely aggravate the problem by giving in to election year pressures to enact protectionist laws. potential protectionist amendments to this bill will deprive us of this golden opportunity to provide some real help to the american exporting community.
. todays boming in beirut is only the latest reminder that leba remains a tinder box of civil and sectarian strife in which americans remain a prime target for terrorists. todays bombing. which killed two americans and injured a score or more others. including ambassador bartholomew. is an outrage perpetrated by a group loyal to the most radical regime in the mideastthat of iran. all american are united in shock and anger at this cowardly attack upon the men and women who serve our nation in such dangerous outposts as beirut. but we must  allow international terrorism to deter us from our efforts to help the lebanese and others in the mideast find peaceful solutions to the many problems which beset that region of the world.
. mr. mcfarlanes sudden switchi do  k whether he was on the way to damascus or what occurred. it turns out he was on his way to "meet the press." his sudden switch caught all by surprise. the administrations new position. on the abm treaty proves the old adage. "you can always find a lawyer to give a new interpretation to anything." until the mcfarlane statement. the u.s. interpretation of the abm treaty was that there were certain limits placed upon both sides regarding development. as well as testing and. of course. deployment of abm systems based on other physical principles such as lasers. particle beams.. and other exotic components. ambassador gerard smith. who negotiated the abm treaty in 1972. summarized the restrictions on development this way at senate hearings on ratification of the treaty. let us listen to the man who was there who negotiated it. what did he say about all of this. it is very clear and unequivocal: . the prohibitions on development contained in the abm treaty would start at that part of the development process where field testing is initiated on either a prototype or model. it is understood by both sides that the prohibition on development applies to activities involved after .a component moves from the laboratory development and testing stage to the field testing stage. whenever performed. that makes it very clearthe prohibitions on development mean that you can test in the laboratory but when you move out into the field testing stage that is prohibited. what could be clearer. here is from the man who was there. this is  some sudden reinterpretation 13 years later.
. i would like to inquire on this particular subject matter of the managers of the bill about this particular amount. as i recall the history of thisand i stand to be correctedthe administration sought $10 million to foster the agreement that the republic of ireland and britain entered into in order to foster peace in thern ireland. if i am  mistaken. the sum asked for was $10 million. second. i would ask about this particular amount which. as i understand it. is   less than $50 million. am i correct in believing that that $50 million has to come from foreign aid that we have already voted for. in other words. this would be a reduction from the lump sum of foreign aid which is being directed all over the. world to countries that desperatelyneed it. if i am correct in that. i find that extremely depressing and of great concern because those nations that are receiving our foreign aid such as the poverty stricken nations in africa are being reduced by this extra large sum way above the administrations request. if i am correct. in order to accommodate this. the first question is. am i correct in believing that the administration asked for $10 million.  $50 million.
. is the committee compromise of $50 million all from esf. so if we vote to approve this. that means that  only will those poor countries that are receiving foreign aid which has already been cut from the request of the administration. be cut  just $20 million that the administration sought. but an additional $30 million will come from somewhere in those accounts that is being distributed all over the world to various nations.
i think that is an important factor. so on one side we have the fact that all these countries which are  receiving aid from the united statesand i believe should receive it and are desperate. already having been reduced through various cuts including gram. i will support the committee in this sum of money. but i hope that in the future if they provide money like this. they will  take it from the existing foreign aid package but will add the money from other sources. rather than from the existing aid package.
 should instruct our permanent representative to the united nations to propose to the u.n. security council. pursuant to article 41(c)(f) of the united nations charter that the security council impose measures against south africa of the same type as are imposed by its act. in other words. what i am seeking is that we get some international cooperation in this effort. it is fine for the united states to do what we are proposing to do here. and i certainly support it. but i would like to see the other nations in the united nations join in. this amendment has been cleared by both sides. and i believe it is acceptable.
. as i understand the state of play . the philippine provision would come out of the foreign aid. less the roughly twothirds that is set aside for israel and egypt. in other words. the entire impact would fall on roughly onethird of the foreign aid budget. is that correct.
as the senator ksperhaps he did  have a chance to hear the letter from ambassador brockthat case was resolved under the existing procedures of the countervailing duties. as you k. the bud co. dropped its actions.
. i believe that the auto quotas are a serious mistake. i commend highly ambassador brocks firm stand. and i applaud his determination  to ask the japanese to renew the quotas next year. i ask unanimous consent that a copy of the article referred to be included in the record at this point.
. we have in h.r. 3398 an opportinity to enact trade legislation which improves our world trading system and assists american exporters to gain a greater share of that global trade. protectionist proposals will kill this bills chances of passage. hurt the american ecoy and american jobs. while at the same time help dismantle the international rules by which we are all governed. the world trading system has been under tremendous pressure since the global recession of 1981 and 1982. we certainly face serious problems in our trade relations with others. our trading partners have trade barriers which are both unfair and frustrating to americans. i do  believe that our workers and industries must accept the use of unfair practices by foreign competitors in their effofts to penetrate u.s. markets. the bill we are considering today contains many elements to counteract those unfair practices and to strengthen our hand in the world trading system. we will merely aggravate the problem by giving in to election year pressures to enact protectionist laws. potential protectionist amendments to this bill will deprive us of this golden opportunity to provide some real help to the american exporting community.
. todays boming in beirut is only the latest reminder that leba remains a tinder box of civil and sectarian strife in which americans remain a prime target for terrorists. todays bombing. which killed two americans and injured a score or more others. including ambassador bartholomew. is an outrage perpetrated by a group loyal to the most radical regime in the mideastthat of iran. all american are united in shock and anger at this cowardly attack upon the men and women who serve our nation in such dangerous outposts as beirut. but we must  allow international terrorism to deter us from our efforts to help the lebanese and others in the mideast find peaceful solutions to the many problems which beset that region of the world.
. mr. mcfarlanes sudden switchi do  k whether he was on the way to damascus or what occurred. it turns out he was on his way to "meet the press." his sudden switch caught all by surprise. the administrations new position. on the abm treaty proves the old adage. "you can always find a lawyer to give a new interpretation to anything." until the mcfarlane statement. the u.s. interpretation of the abm treaty was that there were certain limits placed upon both sides regarding development. as well as testing and. of course. deployment of abm systems based on other physical principles such as lasers. particle beams.. and other exotic components. ambassador gerard smith. who negotiated the abm treaty in 1972. summarized the restrictions on development this way at senate hearings on ratification of the treaty. let us listen to the man who was there who negotiated it. what did he say about all of this. it is very clear and unequivocal: . the prohibitions on development contained in the abm treaty would start at that part of the development process where field testing is initiated on either a prototype or model. it is understood by both sides that the prohibition on development applies to activities involved after .a component moves from the laboratory development and testing stage to the field testing stage. whenever performed. that makes it very clearthe prohibitions on development mean that you can test in the laboratory but when you move out into the field testing stage that is prohibited. what could be clearer. here is from the man who was there. this is  some sudden reinterpretation 13 years later.
. i would like to inquire on this particular subject matter of the managers of the bill about this particular amount. as i recall the history of thisand i stand to be correctedthe administration sought $10 million to foster the agreement that the republic of ireland and britain entered into in order to foster peace in thern ireland. if i am  mistaken. the sum asked for was $10 million. second. i would ask about this particular amount which. as i understand it. is   less than $50 million. am i correct in believing that that $50 million has to come from foreign aid that we have already voted for. in other words. this would be a reduction from the lump sum of foreign aid which is being directed all over the. world to countries that desperatelyneed it. if i am correct in that. i find that extremely depressing and of great concern because those nations that are receiving our foreign aid such as the poverty stricken nations in africa are being reduced by this extra large sum way above the administrations request. if i am correct. in order to accommodate this. the first question is. am i correct in believing that the administration asked for $10 million.  $50 million.
. is the committee compromise of $50 million all from esf. so if we vote to approve this. that means that  only will those poor countries that are receiving foreign aid which has already been cut from the request of the administration. be cut  just $20 million that the administration sought. but an additional $30 million will come from somewhere in those accounts that is being distributed all over the world to various nations.
i think that is an important factor. so on one side we have the fact that all these countries which are  receiving aid from the united statesand i believe should receive it and are desperate. already having been reduced through various cuts including gram. i will support the committee in this sum of money. but i hope that in the future if they provide money like this. they will  take it from the existing foreign aid package but will add the money from other sources. rather than from the existing aid package.
 should instruct our permanent representative to the united nations to propose to the u.n. security council. pursuant to article 41(c)(f) of the united nations charter that the security council impose measures against south africa of the same type as are imposed by its act. in other words. what i am seeking is that we get some international cooperation in this effort. it is fine for the united states to do what we are proposing to do here. and i certainly support it. but i would like to see the other nations in the united nations join in. this amendment has been cleared by both sides. and i believe it is acceptable.
. as i understand the state of play . the philippine provision would come out of the foreign aid. less the roughly twothirds that is set aside for israel and egypt. in other words. the entire impact would fall on roughly onethird of the foreign aid budget. is that correct.
throughout this discussion. it is important to keep in mind that cfcs and halonsthe other group of chemicals covered by the protocolare  only responsible for destruction of our ozone shield. they are also "greenhouse gases." they are significant contributions to the emous problem of global climate change. . as an environmental regulation. the montreal protocol has its flaws. fortunately. it can be fixed. as an international environmental agreement. it is an historic document and a significant achievement. we owe a great deal to those who made it happendr. tolba. lee thomas. ambassador richard benedick. and a host of dedicated staff who worked long and hard on this matter. this protocol deserves to be ratified by this country and by the rest of the world as soon as possible. exibrt 1
group of eight or group of four. it is the view of the distinguished senator from oklahoma that one of those groups. let us say the minimal one. the group of four. would have to be told that this expedition was going to take place.
. i wanted to ask the senator from. massachusetts about the second point lie has here. that the united states should impose additional diplomatic and ecoic pressure on general iega. there is always a great tendency for the senate or the congress as a whole. and especially the senate. to want to get into any act that is in town. things are going pretty well and the united states has managed to stay away from the bullying role that all too many in panama are quickly prepared to ascribe to the united states. so i am wondering: is the state department in favor of this resolution. are we blundering into a situation that is going along pretty well for the united states. i am nervous about this nervous. but questioning the additional ecoic sanctions that  seem to be imposed by the u.s. government rather than delvalles ambassador requesting certain action here. could the senator explain that.
. i ask that a copy of the letter by mr. cameron and ms. dinner also be printed in the record following my statement. i commend this international team of lawyers for taking this important initiative to help protect our global environment. i am particularly impressed with the emphasis they will be giving to assisting developing countries and their sensitivity to the need for sustainable development. their reference to the brundtland report is instructive. that report is an historic document with lessons and suggestions that will help us save our global environment. the report points out that critical role that ngos. such as the new institute and the planned advocacy organization. are being called upon to play. highlights the importance of sustainable development. and cautions that the needs of ordinary citizens throughout the world must be considered. aher important theme in the report is that of equity between generations as well as equity between nations. we are at a critical point in the history of our planet. global security from nuclear threats has suddenly been equaled by threats from environmental assaults. the "green" party is being embraced by politicians throughout the world. citizens are demanding action. the world court is being rediscovered. at an international meeting in the hague last month. a proposal to create a new organization that would be able to seek advisory opinions from the world court on international environmental conflicts was discussed. all of these recent developments set the stage for the new institute for international and comparative environmental law. a central goal of the institute will be to expand the role of ngos within the framework of public international law. this international team of lawyers is taking the initiative and assuming a tremendous challenge. yet if they are correct. and i believe they are. international law must and will change to embrace the tremendous power and vitality of ngos throughout the world. just as many politicians in western europe are  doing. international law must change in other ways as well. treaty negotiations must be undertaken with a new sense of urgency. at the same time. adjudication and other dispute resolution techniques should be used where appropriate. the institute hopes to encourage this as well. in closing. i would like to say that i admire very much the courage of people who are willing to undertake such a bold venture. the time is ripe for change. and i wish this institute the very best. the letters follow:
. america today finds itself at an important juncture of defining its role in the global marketplace. the ability of domestic companies to compete with european and japanese rivals. especially in technically sophisticated industries. is a subject of the highest national importance. a cursory glance at the business section of virtually any newspaper starkly reveals the challenges we face in the international ecoic field. for decades. our businesses were the world leaders in techogy and ination. in 1981. americas surplus in high techogy exports over imports exceeded $26 billion. alarmingly. that
. i want to commend the senator from wisconsin and the senator from vermont and all those who had a part in this amendment. i think it is a good amendment. i hope we will be extra careful in our foreign aid to be sure it is  used for purposes that are destructive of our environment. therefore. i commend those who are supporting this amendment. i ask unanimous consent to be added as a cosponsor.
 cristiani. military aid would be turned over to the military of el salvador only with the approval of the salvadoran government. initially. i was troubled by the conditional 50 percent cut in aid because this appears to reward a group that is by means worthy of the rewardthe fmln guerrillas. at the same time i recognized that 10 years and over $4 billion in american aid has  brought about peace in el salvador. i have seen numerous reports that assassinations. bombings and abductions by right wing death squads continue. albeit at rates lower than in the early 1980s. the united states policy of putting pressure on the government while conducting extensive training of the salvadoran military seems to have increased the militarys sensitivity to human rights concerns to a degree. but abuses continue. it appears that the military does  believe the united states will ever cut off aid. and thus has  taken serious steps to stop these abuses or to prosecute those members of the military who are responsible. in 10 years of civil war. officer has ever been punished for a human rights violation. there is just reason to believe that the military has obstructed the jesuit investigation. a 50percent cut may well be the only way to truly impress upon the military that we are serious. the u.n. agreement. signed by both the fuln and the government. calls for a two step process whereby first. agreement would be reached on political agreements. after these agreements. the parties would agree to a ceasefire. the subjects of the political agreements include reforms of the armed forces. human rights. the judicial system. the electoral system. constitutional reform. ecoic and social issues. and verification by the united nations. i am persuaded that a 50percent cut in aid is warranted at this time. in addition. i believe the conditions set out in this bill do indeed provide the proper incentives to encourage both sides to negotiate in good faith and curtail violence. if the government fails to act appropriately. it will lose all of its aid. if the fmln fails to act appropriately all the aid will be restored. my support for the conditional language of this bill should  be taken to mean that i do  appreciate the advances made toward peace in el salvador by the government. nevertheless. i believe a more dramatic statement of american frustration with both parties in el salvador is warranted. i would  like to turn to the issue of the graham amendment before us tonight. this amendment would add two conditions to the original bill language. first. it would call for a complete termination of 100 percent of the military aid if the government did  agree to a u.n.-sponsored ceasefire within 60 days of the enactment of this bill. conversely. 100 percent of the aid would be restored if the fmln did  agree to the ceasefire. in addition. both sides would have to agree to ask the united nations to assume a more active mediation role in the current negotiations. while this amendment has a certain degree of appeal. i am forced to conclude that it would  be constructive to the peace process. earlier this year. at the outset of the united nations sponsored talks between the government and the fmln. both parties agreed that a ceasefire would be appropriate only after agreement was reached on structural reforms in el salvador including reform of the armed forces. judiciary. electoral system. and constitution. some of these reforms are the cause of the current stalemate in the negotiations. i am deeply concerned that asking both sides to accept a ceasefire before agreement is reached on at least some of these reforms lessens commitments to reach a political resolution of the conflict. for this reason. i believe it is unlikely that the fmln would ever agree to a ceasefire without political concessions first. the effect would be the restoration of all aid after 60 days and we would be right back to the status quo. it is my desire to support the u.n.negotiation process that guides.me to vote against this well intentioned amendment.
 nixon. so. let us  return to a time when china had hing at stake and could. and indeed did. act with impunity. i think. it is also worth mentioning chinas support of the united states in the united nations during the time of the kuwait war.
. i urge adoption of s. 533. with the passage of this bill. the congress will underscore the critical role the environmental protection agency plays in guiding our domestic policy debate and in preserving our fragile global ecosystem.
. s. 2387 lays down an invaluable blueprint as congress works to provide full funding for wic and head start and to expand access to the job corps program. together these programs go a long way toward improving opportunities for our children and ensuring our nations competitiveness in the global marketplace. i urge my colleagues to join us in cosponsoring this proposal..
madam president. i lust briefly would like to address myself to that. the nickles amendment. as i understand it. provides that before u.s. troops could be placed under a foreign or u.n. command while participating in poaookeeping. missins. it would be required that the president report to the relevant committees of the congres detailing the role and mission of u.s. combat forces. the estimated cost of supporting our force. the sise of the deployment. and probable duration. the relevant committees would have 30 days to consider this and review the deployment. then a joint resolution would have to be enacted to allow the deployment. there are some escape clauses. madam president. i would like to say that i think this is an unfortunate amendment. it seems to me that what we are going to be faced with many times as we go into the balance of this century and the first part of the next century is  major conflicts of the types we have been preparing for over so many years. namely with the soviet union. there are going to be a whole series of operations in unkn sections of the world dealing with unkn individuals. i believe very strongly. madam president. somebody has to be in charge. in this case the president of the united states. i think we have to leave with the president the authdrity to have our troops serve in conjunction vkth other united nations forces should that be his decision. sometimes the united nations commander will be a u.s. commander and sometimes it will be otherwise. if there is one thing i have discovered in hearing discussion about our troops going into foreign places. the argument is made: well. we do  want to go it alone. there is a serious problem there. we recognise that. but do  have the united states do it alone. let us see that the other countries pick up their share of the burden. this cry is heard incessantly. and rightfully so. but. madam president. if we are going to have a situation where everybody who participates--end. indeed. these involve combat troops froquently--is going to insist that their troops be under their commander. just . as the united states insists that our troops be under our commander. it seems to me a formula for chaos. i can understand the motives of the distinguished sponsor of this legislation. but i think it would be very unfortunate. we have a president of the united states. he is elected by the people. we have to give him some leeway. there are 35 members of congress. if you took a secret poll. i suspect every one of them would feel he or she was fit $13811 to be president. and indeed probably better than the existing president or existing past presidents. humility is  a banner of those in congress. however. the fact is that we have  been elected president. neither i  any other members of this body  members of the other body are president. we have a president. if we are going to let him make decisions. crisp decisions that have to be made. we have to give him some leeway. . madam president. if things go wrong. the congress has the power of the purse. it can always step in and cut off every nickel and dime that is sponsoring. that undertaking. whether our forces are under the command of aher nations u.n. commander or whether they are under our own command. madam president. i hope that the nickles amendment does  prevail.
. i want to join my colleague from wyoming in expressing my strong support for the united nations population fund (unfpa). there are many challenges to be faced in the next century with regard to global population growth. and international programs such as unfpa are critical to the worlds population and development assistance efforts. unfpa. which receives funds from some 101 do nations. has had a somewhat tumultuous history in the us over the past decade. indeed. unfpa funding was suspended altogether during both the reagan and the bush administrations. under the clinton administration. modest funding for unfpa has resumed. however. of the $50 million appropriated for unfpa in fiscal year 1995. $25 millio onehalfwas rescinded by the house of representatives in its emergency supplemental and rescissions bill. let me emphasize that in these difficult budgetary times. u.s. federal spending. including u.s. contributions to international foreign assistance programs such as unfpa. need to be adjusted accordingly. however. in this process we must ensure that programs are  unfairly targeted for disproportionate funding reductions. moreover. i believe it is important in this instance to continue the u.s. leadership role that was demonstrated at the 1994 international conference on population and development in cairo. for these reasons. i believe that a 50 percent cut in funding for unfpa is excessive. and thus unwise. i was pleased. therefore. to find that the senate rescissions package does  cut the u.s. allocation for unfpa. i particularly want to commend and thank the chairman of the appropriations committee. senator hatfield. for recognizing the importance of this international effort. unfpa will continue only if member nations continue to provide it with support. i believe that the united states has a clear interest in the success of unfpa and similar population and development assistance efforts. and i join with senator simpson and my other colleagues in urging the senate to maintain u.s. support.
. i would like to thank james d. wolfensohn for his many contributions. from reconciling a debtto expanding education programsto attracting new worldclass performing artists--.* i wish him well in his new position at the world bank and hope that he is able to continue an involvement with the john f. kennedy center for the performing arts.
. i rise today in strong support of world population awareness week. which is being observed internationally this week. we are all aware of the challenges we will face in the next century regarding the worlds population. according to recent projections by the united nations. world population is expected to increase by close to 100 million people annually through the year 2015. within 20 years. the earths population will have sharply increased to total 7.7 billion people. nearly all of this increase will be in the poorest countries in the world. causing overall increases in poverty. illiteracy. environmental problems. hunger. and malrishment. and a significant strain on the worlds natural resources. if area populations continue their rapid growth. the resulting outcome could have a devastating effect on the united states. the world ecoy. and our planet. to avoid massive catastrophes. we must begin to reduce runaway population growth through voluntary. rational. humane means. this is the message of world population awareness week. recognized internationally from october 2229. 1995. i am proud to say that rhode islands gover lincoln almond is one of several state govers to proclaim world population awareness week. in doing so. he asked all rhode islanders to join him in "supporting the cairo program of action." a 20year strategy for stabilizing world population. he also called on "all government and private organizations to do their part to implement the document." i support gover almonds proclamation and request that his proclamation be printed in the record. the 1994 international conference on population and development in cairo. egypt was the first important step in the worldwide effort to arrest the huge growth in the wprlds population. all americans should be proud of the integral role our delegation played in developing a set of recommendations to curb population growth. we must continue to promote international efforts to inform people about the consequences of dramatic population growth. and i respectfully urge my colleagues to join me in supporting world population awareness week. the proclamation follows:
. these are just some examples of how the united nations and its affiliated organizations serve u.s. national security interests around the world. there are many more. its vitally important that every member of congress understand exactly what we are receiving in return for our substantial investment at the united nations in order to make the best judgment about how to proceed in addressing our unpaid dues. aher important misconception about the united nations is the characterization of it as a bloated. uncontrolled bureaucracy that is unresponsive to calls for restraint. it is true that the united nations anc its administrative activities had seen emous growth during its first several decades of existence. this growth and associated bureaucracy led to justified calls for reform and reduction. we must keep in mind that the united nations has already undergone several reforms in the past decade. often atthe urging ofthe u.s. congress. well before secretarygeneral kofi annan assumed office. the united nations had established an inspector general. reduced the number of high level posts. and cut both its peacekeeping and general budgets. and in the relatively short time since annan has been secretarygeneral. he has annced additional farreaching reforms. on march 17. annan specified a series of 10 reform benchmarks involving further budget cuts and restructuring. included among these are a transfer of resources from administration to programs. establishment of a code of conduct for u.n. staff. and streamlining of his own office. annan has done a great deal with the authority he has. while proposing additional measures that must be negotiated with member states. so one should be left with the understanding that the united nations is somehow immune from accountability and unresponsive to criticism. the world body. especially through its new secretarygeneral. has heard the call for reform. its leadership recognizes that it must be responsive to the concerns of member states. particularly its biggest do. the united states. this brings us to todays debate. it has been my longstanding view that the united states absolutely must remain a full and active member of the united nations. the many constructive activities of the united nations. i have discussed. and the many u.s. interests that are served by our participation in the world body warrant a continued and strengthened u.s. role. indeed. the 20th century has seen the tremendous consequences that result when the united states shrinks from its inevitable leading role in world affairs. in fact. i would argue that the increasing complexity of the challenges confronting the united states today make it more important than ever that we remain engaged internationally by. among other things. fully participating in the united nations. and we certainly can adequately participate in the united nations by continuing to carry an arrearage of around $1 billion. because of this arrearage. our respect and credibility there has diminished. thereby limiting united states ability to influence positively the united nations deliberations and activities. as the sole remaining superpower in an increasingly complex world. the united states simply must play a leading and unimpeded role at the united nations. while i am extremely pleased about the willingness of the senator from th carolina to engage in negotiations to clear up our arrearage. i believe that paying our back dues in full without the onerous conditions of title 22 is the appropriate course of action. it appears unlikely that the united nations will. in fact. agree to this package as a whole. particularly given the lukewarm initial reaction of its leadership. this reaction is certainly understandable. could you imagine if every member state made demands such as this in return for full payment of dues. what would best serve u.s. interests is to pay off our arrearage  and encourage our diplomats to undertake a very serious effort to negotiate further reforms with a secretarygeneral who appears strongly committed to genuine change. i am greatly concerned that the substantial progress we have already made in working with kofi annan could be jeopardized by enactment of these mandates. it is surprise that many member states of the u.n. have said that these conditions are a mere starting point for further negotiations. such an interpretation. if accepted by the body as a whole. would simply put us back at square one with a $1 billion arrearage. rather than debating how best to pay our back dues. we should instead focus on the more fundamental question of whether or  the united states ought to be a member of the united nations at all. if we do decide that its in our interests to remain there. then we should simply pay our dues and move on. it is imperative that the united states remain engaged. rather than withdraw. from world affairs and institutions such as the united nations. i urge my colleagues to support the lugar/sarbanes amendment.
. these are just some examples of how the united nations and its affiliated organizations serve u.s. national security interests around the world. there are many more. its vitally important that every member of congress understand exactly what we are receiving in return for our substantial investment at the united nations in order to make the best judgment about how to proceed in addressing our unpaid dues. aher important misconception about the united nations is the characterization of it as a bloated. uncontrolled bureaucracy that is unresponsive to calls for restraint. it is true that the united nations anc its administrative activities had seen emous growth during its first several decades of existence. this growth and associated bureaucracy led to justified calls for reform and reduction. we must keep in mind that the united nations has already undergone several reforms in the past decade. often atthe urging ofthe u.s. congress. well before secretarygeneral kofi annan assumed office. the united nations had established an inspector general. reduced the number of high level posts. and cut both its peacekeeping and general budgets. and in the relatively short time since annan has been secretarygeneral. he has annced additional farreaching reforms. on march 17. annan specified a series of 10 reform benchmarks involving further budget cuts and restructuring. included among these are a transfer of resources from administration to programs. establishment of a code of conduct for u.n. staff. and streamlining of his own office. annan has done a great deal with the authority he has. while proposing additional measures that must be negotiated with member states. so one should be left with the understanding that the united nations is somehow immune from accountability and unresponsive to criticism. the world body. especially through its new secretarygeneral. has heard the call for reform. its leadership recognizes that it must be responsive to the concerns of member states. particularly its biggest do. the united states. this brings us to todays debate. it has been my longstanding view that the united states absolutely must remain a full and active member of the united nations. the many constructive activities of the united nations. i have discussed. and the many u.s. interests that are served by our participation in the world body warrant a continued and strengthened u.s. role. indeed. the 20th century has seen the tremendous consequences that result when the united states shrinks from its inevitable leading role in world affairs. in fact. i would argue that the increasing complexity of the challenges confronting the united states today make it more important than ever that we remain engaged internationally by. among other things. fully participating in the united nations. and we certainly can adequately participate in the united nations by continuing to carry an arrearage of around $1 billion. because of this arrearage. our respect and credibility there has diminished. thereby limiting united states ability to influence positively the united nations deliberations and activities. as the sole remaining superpower in an increasingly complex world. the united states simply must play a leading and unimpeded role at the united nations. while i am extremely pleased about the willingness of the senator from th carolina to engage in negotiations to clear up our arrearage. i believe that paying our back dues in full without the onerous conditions of title 22 is the appropriate course of action. it appears unlikely that the united nations will. in fact. agree to this package as a whole. particularly given the lukewarm initial reaction of its leadership. this reaction is certainly understandable. could you imagine if every member state made demands such as this in return for full payment of dues. what would best serve u.s. interests is to pay off our arrearage  and encourage our diplomats to undertake a very serious effort to negotiate further reforms with a secretarygeneral who appears strongly committed to genuine change. i am greatly concerned that the substantial progress we have already made in working with kofi annan could be jeopardized by enactment of these mandates. it is surprise that many member states of the u.n. have said that these conditions are a mere starting point for further negotiations. such an interpretation. if accepted by the body as a whole. would simply put us back at square one with a $1 billion arrearage. rather than debating how best to pay our back dues. we should instead focus on the more fundamental question of whether or  the united states ought to be a member of the united nations at all. if we do decide that its in our interests to remain there. then we should simply pay our dues and move on. it is imperative that the united states remain engaged. rather than withdraw. from world affairs and institutions such as the united nations. i urge my colleagues to support the lugar/sarbanes amendment.
. it is clear to those that are much more senior in the congress than i. and who k the difficulties and the problems that have existed between this branch of the government and the department of state. and those conflicts that have been within the department of state itself. that the solutions to the passport problems which have been devised over the past several years have been geared to individuals in washington rather than the facts of a national problem. that is what this legislation attempts to cure. and i have a feeling that this is what the american traveler expects of the american politician.
in a minute. these services more than pay for themselves. yet the u.s. taxpayer is paying for services he never receives. what this bill specifically says is more temporary solutions geared to federal personalities but. rather. a permanent answer to what is a severe federal crisis. that answer is additional passport offices under the direction of the passport office of the u.s. department of state. . state departments issue passports. courts administer the laws. to ask one to perform the functions of the other is the type of rube goldberg mechanism that belongs to the era in which it was contrived.
i thank the senator from colorado. . i rise to speak in favor of the senators amendment. the comment has been made that this could be misinterpreted by those in the united nations. and i am sure that probably certain actions of this body could also be said to be misinterpreted by the administration. what is at issue is whether or  the senate is going to construct a foreign aid bill that is in tune with these times. under the circumstances of these times. i think that this. in essence. is what the senator from colorado wants to do. and. as i interpret the comments of the distinguished committee chairman relative to flexibility. this is what he is trying to see come to pass in this bill. so. it is  an argument as to the sick and the hungry and the uneducated throughout the world. or being against the united nations. certainly. this senator from connecticut has supported that body in all its endeavors and will continue to do so. i am  so much interested in the interpretations of the united nations or of the administration as i am to seeing the job gets done. frankly. i think this is what is in the amendment of the senator from colorado. there is flexibility to the amendment consistent with the circumstances that exist today.  with the speeches or the words that were used at the founding of the united nations. that is exactly why this bill has run into trouble. the name of the game is unimportant. when we talk of the sick and the hungry and the uneducated throughout the world. the banner is longer important. what is important is the game itself. is the job for the sick. the hungry. and the uneducated being done throughout the worldwith our money and everybody elses. quite frankly. i do  think it is. this is  an antiu.n. vote. what we are talking about in this amendment is making this bill responsive to the year 1971. that is a worthy endeavor. if we try to apply the same old slogans and the same old words that held true in 1940. we are going to end up with the same foreign aid package that means hing in its accomplishments. i sincerely support the amendment of the senator from colorado.
. i offer a simple amendment that would authorize funding for the establishment of a passport office in the state of connecticut. over the last 20 years. the demand for passports has increased dramatically from around 700.000 to almost 2y2 million a year in 1976. yet the state department has allowed only one new agency to be established in that period.
 to implement the goals and objectives of the international year of the disabled person. we should  allow ourselves to believe for a single second that our responsibility to strive toward those same goals and objectives has in any way been reduced. in declaring 1981 as the international year of the disabled person. the united nations set forth the following goals and objectives to be achieved throughout the world:
. i ask unanimous consent that the committee december 7. 1.981 on foreign relations be autiori._ed to mece during the session of the seatate at 2 p.m. today. monday. december 7. to hold a full committee hearing on the aomninations of gerald thomas to be ambassador to guyana and james theberge to be ambassador to chile.
. in 1948. the united nations declared that all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. that everyone has the right to life. liberty. and security of person. that one shall be subjected to arbitrary arrest. detention. or exile. that everyone has the right to leave any country. including his own. and to return to his country: and that everyone has the right of freedom of thought. conscience. and religion. as an enlightened document. the u.n.s human rights declaration has few equals. but for jews living in the soviet union who have made kn their desire to emigrate. that declaration has basis in reality. they k neither freedom  dignity. to the extent that those conditions are bestowed by society. they are subject to arbitrary arrest. detention. and internal exile. they k freedom of movement. they are prisoners of conscience in a country that harasses them for practicing their faith. yet. they are denied the right to emigrate to a country lke israel where members of their family live and worship in freedom. soviet jews are  only a people without human rights. they are a people without a country. eleven years after the soviet union opened the door to emigration ever so slightly. that door appears ready to slam shut. emigration is at its lowest point since 1970. according to the most recent estimates. 1981 emigration fell below 10.000. a dramatic drop from the 1979 figure of 51.300. for this reason. i recently wrote to secretary of state haig to express my concern over this matter. the letter follows:
. i thank the distinguished miity leader and the distinguished junior senator from kentucky for their generous complimentary remarks with respect to ambassador henry cabot lodge. i had the opportunity to see first hand recently on my trip to far east asia the high esteem in which ambassador henry cabot lodge is held by the people of south vietnam. by our military forces in south vietnam. and by the members of the south vietnamese government. ambassador henry cabot lodge has rendered a service for which the country is truly grateful. i have seen the seeds of a democracy in that wartorn country. and much of it can be attributed to the skill and the diplomacy of henry cabot lodge. who at one time served as a distinguished member of this great deliberative body from the great commonwealth of massachusetts. i am grateful that senators have shown their appreciation for the services of henry cabot lodge. he has given  only to south vietnam and to this nation. but also truly to the world. for he is a most distinguished statesman of the world. in his service as a soldier. diplomat. senator. and statesman he has peer. i am pleased that the senior senator from massachusetts has joined with me and other senators in offering this resolution. and that my colleagues in the senate have seen fit to show their appreciation of it.
i thank the distinguished senator from kansas for his kind and generous remarks. i k of his visits to africa. and i believe he has made a contribution to my remarks today by including his opinions. particularly pertaining to regional and bilateral aid in africa. . i ask unanimous consent that i may proceed for 15 additional minutes.
. there are many doubts about the effectiveness of our foreign aid program. there are many complaints from recipient countries about the funds expended on surveys and administration. and the relatively small amount which is actually allocated to tangible development projects. there are many reports indicating maladministration and waste in a variety of foreign assistance programs. we are beginning to hear criticisms of our public law 480 program. on the grounds that it represents unfair competition with the commodity exports of developing countries. increasingly. we hear countries asking for trade.  aid. for private investment rather than public loans. yet the need for public assistance persists. in the light of this discontent with the foreign aid effort. i would wholeheartedly agree with those who contend that our aid program should be reexamined and revised. perhaps we have been wrong to expand rather haphazardly a program designed originally to supplement the efforts of our european allies. perhaps we have overemphasized loans for construction of infrastructure. while overlooking the necessity for larger markets for the products which can thus be produced and transported. perhaps we are simply  sufficiently aware of the needs of the new nations and our role in meeting them: maybe we have expected too much progress in too short a time. maybe we have been unnecessarily disturbed when our efforts met with criticism and distrust. as a government and as a nation. we need a clearer understanding of the goals each nation seeks to achieve. we need a deeper appreciation of our own interests and how they can be achieved. we need. in short. to reexamine our foreign aid objectives and to review carefully the accomplishments and failures of the program to date. then. and only then. can we begin to offer the orderly. wellconceived and welladministered program required and expected of a great nation. i hope that the amendment of the senator from new york will be adopted.
. there are many doubts about the effectiveness of our foreign aid program. there are many complaints from recipient countries about the funds expended on surveys and administration. and the relatively small amount which is actually allocated to tangible development projects. there are many reports indicating maladministration and waste in a variety of foreign assistance programs. we are beginning to hear criticisms on our public law 480 program. on the grounds that it represents unfair competition with the commodity exports of developing countries. increasingly. we hear countries asking for trade.  aid. for private investment rather than public loans. yet the need for public assistance persists. in the light of this discontent with the foreign aid effort. i would wholeheartedly agree with those who contend that our aid program should be reexamined and revised. perhaps we have been wrong to expand rather haphazardly a program designed originally to supplement the efforts of our european allies. perhaps we have overemphasized loans for construction of infrastructure. while overlooking the necessity for larger markets for the products which can thus be produced and transported. perhaps we are simply  sufficiently aware of the needs of the new nations and our role in meeting them: maybe we have expected too much progress in too short a time. maybe we have been unnecessarily disturbed when our efforts met with criticism and distrust. as a government and as a nation. we need a clearer understanding of the goals each nation seeks to achieve. we need a deeper appreciation of our own interests and how they can be achieved. we need. in short to reexamine our foreign aid objectives and to review carefully the accomplishments and failures of the program to date. then. and only then. can we begin to offer the orderly. wellconceived and welladministered program required and expected of a great nation. i hope that the amendment of the senator from new york will be adopted.
. there is  much the united states can do about the internal affairs of aher state. matter how reprehensible its programs or unjust its political philosophy. rhodesia. like other nations. must find its own salvation. but while america can solve rhodesias problems. it does  have to support them. and supportboth moral and politicalis exactly what the illegal rhodesian regime derives from the continued presence of an american consulate in the capital city of salisbury. surely we do  need a fullfledged consular office and staff to look after the affairs of 1.000 american citizens and less than $3 million worth of trade per year. britain. with its much greater ecoic investment. its many thousands of resident british citizens. and its close family ties with many of the englishspeaking settlers. has yet had the wisdom and the courage to sever all ties with the selfstyled new republic. many other western governments have let it be kn uficially that they would withdraw their representatives if the united states would do the same. there is cold war being fought in rhodesia. there are strategic resources there which can be obtained elsewhere. there are vital ports or airbases. communications installations. there are  even any neighboring states whose security requires our continued presence in the country. there is little egh we can do to further the struggle for justice and human dignity beyond our own borders. but here in rhodesia we have a natural opportunity to take a stand which is more than rhetoric. less than direct involvement. and which in terms of the welfare of the people and our own international image. will cost absolutely hing. i was encouraged by the statement issued from the white house over the weekend that our policy toward rhodesia is still under review. i would hope that the foregoing points would be given the most careful consideration. and i hope. at the end of that review. that the consulate will be closed. as an indication that we reject unequivocally the principle of white supremacy. and share a common faith in the future of free men.
. if the resolution is favorably acted upon. will heed our advice and that he will make such a request of the soviet union. i go further and call upon the soviet union. if i may. to listen to this proposal very seriously. consider it very seriously. in terms of what it means for the peace of the world. if they can join in. and will join in. a freeze on offensive and defensive weapons. then we can get on with the details. the dotting of the is and the crossing of the ts. as the distinguished senator from new jersey has stated. we recognize that in this very complex field of diplomacy it will take time. there are serious questions of verification which must be resolved. let us hope that while these questions are being resolved. there will be further stepup. further acceleration. of the nuclear arms race. so again i thank the distinguished senator from new jersey for the very. very rich contributions he has made and is continuing to make as far as this resolution is concerned.
. we are all becoming more aware of the pressing drug problem facing the nation and in fact plaguing much of the world at an everincreasing rate. it is of the utmost importance that we have kledge of the situationa kledge based on concrete facts that can be used by the united states and other nations in a united effort against this booming industry which is baffling our lawenforcement efforts and corrupting our youth. we do  have to go very far to see the impact of illegal drug distribution. it is becoming increasingly more visible and alarming. a recent series of articles entitled "the junk merchants." written by john hughes. and published in the christian science monitor gives a clear picture of the scope and the complexity of drug operations on the international level. the illegal nature of the problem and the difficulty in obtaining facts make this series of particular importance. it is my hope that through such thorough studies we will be more prepared to recommend action and to support the international efforts which are presently being initiated at the united nations and in various countries. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the articles be printed in the record.
. the united nations is an important and constructive arm of american and world foreign policy. its accomplishments should be recognized and applauded. in the belief that the summary prepared by the u.s. mission will be of interest to all senators. i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record.
i thank the senator. i said initially that i thought it was an excellent proposal. i k that we need persons with special training in the foreign service. i hope that the colloquy in which we are .engaging will serve the purpose of indicating clearly that this legislation is designed to produce actual benefits to the federal government in the form of a foreign service commitment. i am concerned. with the question of why we should train students to go into the foreign service field when we are  training students to go into other fields needed in the nation as well. which are comparable to foreign service. we talked. for example. about draft deferments for lawyers who. after they had been given the deferment to study law would commit themselves to practice. say. in a rural or an urban poverty area. of course. there would be some clout there because if they did . they would be drafted. but if they did. they would serve in those areas where the nation needs good legal advice and counsel.
. it was with great personal sadness that i have learned of the death of ralph j. bunche. i have kn dr. bunche for many years. he was my professor of political science at howard university. as a teacher he had the extraordinary capacity to inform and inspire his students. his passing is an irreplaceable loss to the nation and the world he served. few men have had so great an opportunity to dedicate their lives to the attainment of peace. and even fewer men have had so many accomplishments in pursuit of that good. ralph bunche was a founder of the united nations and served that organization as its under secretary for special political affairs. it was ralph bunche who brought about the armistice between israel and the arab states in 1949. for this accomplishment. he received the el peace prize in 1950. it was ralph bunche who directed the u.n. operations in the congo in 1960. which were primarily responsible for keeping the great powers out of an internal struggle and enabling the people of what is  the republic of zaire to resolve their own differences. it was ralph bunche who directed the u.n. peacekeeping force on cyprus. which prevented the outbreak of further hostilities between that islands turkish and greek citizens. in his quarter century of service to the united nations. ralph bunche has been personally responsible for most of the u.n.s accomplishments in the achievement and preservation of peace. over the last quarter century. his name has become virtually syymous with that of the world body which he helped to found. his values and principles. and those of the united nations. have been one: peace. human rights. justice. and social progress. others will follow in his footsteps. and will seek to carry out his goals. but few if any will ever be able to equal the personal and professional accomplishments of this great statesman. great scholar. great peacemaker. and great man. to his wife. ruth. and to his surviving children. joan and ralph. jr.. i extend my heartfelt sympathy. for theirs is the greatest loss of all.
. there exists sound or logical purpose for the united states to continue to flaunt the united nations ecoic sanctions against rhodesia. the senate foreign relations committee recognized that fact by recommending a halt to last years resumption of trade. i hope that the senate will agree to retain the committees provision.
. i join  with our many mutual friends in wishing the ambassador a future filled with joy and opportunity. i ask unanimous consent that the article from todays washington post be printed in the record.
. in response to the question of my distinguished colleague. i have already talked with the distinguished chairman of the foreign relations committee. the senator from arkansas . and consideration will be given by the committee to the bill. this bill could be attached as an amendment to the foreign aid bill which is. of course. permanent legislation. i think that in this matter we might get the bill before the senate as an amendment within a short period of time. i think that time is of the essence. as i said in my prepared text. i am very hopeful that there will be success in the negotiations at paris. nevertheless. we have the constitutional responsibility to act. i am hopeful that this bill will come before this body. that it will be passed by this body. and that this time the house of representatives will join also in passing this legislation. which too long we have delayed.
. there are many individuals in the united states and elsewhere who continually disparage the united nations as an imperfect. nay ineffectual organization in the international system. in many areas such criticisms have a certain degree of validity. especially in regards to the questions of peacekeeping and peacemaking. however. i believe that those who see little merit in a continuation of the united nations are extremely myopic in their failure to perceive that there are feasible alternative ways to provide the necessary services to humanity  rendered by the united nations. the basic question the critics of the united nations fail to provide a satisfactory answer to is this: what would happen should there be united nations. as i have pondered this question. i have come to the conclusion that an international system lacking a united nations or its functional equivalent would be a far less stable and far more dangerous system. in regards to why i believe the united nations to be an important and necessary entity in our world. i call the attention of this body to an excellent article by prof. kenneth w. thompson published recently in vista. the magazine of the united nations association. the article is entitled. "on replacing lost gods." in regards to the function of the united nations. professor thompson states: with the breakdown of the ruling dogmas of freedom. progress and science and the attendant uncertainty and powerlessness that many feel. the united nations may be more vital than its founders dreamed. i fully concur with this thought and i believe that in an age of alienation and instability the world can only ige the united nations at its own eventual peril. i ask unanimous consent that professor thompsons article be printed in the record.
. a recent speech by alan a. reich. deputy assistant secretary of state for educational and cultural affairs. contains many excellent suggestions as to why peopletopeople diplomacy is an important aspect of our continuing involvement in world affairs. i commend this speech to the senate and ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record.
. i k of nation which has equalled. in so short a time. nigerias record of political and ecoic growth. theirs is the growth  just of institutions or of financial income. but the growth of a people as wellthe growth of their souls. their sense of achievement. their selfconfidence in the world. as general gowon addresses the united nations tomorrow. he should k that americans share his pride and the pride of his people in their past achievements. their present standards. and their future hopes. nigerians truly are building a history which they and their children can ho.
. during the past several years i have been impressed with the work of the stanley foundation. a profit organization whose main purpose is to promote peace with freedom and justice. the headquarters of the stanley foundation is in muscatine. iowa. i am sure my colleagues from that state share my sentiments regarding the foundation. the main focus of attention of the foundation is on the united nations. conferences dealing with u.n. matters are periodically convened. these include: the conference on the united nations of the next decade which brings together international statesmen to consider problems and prospects of the united nations. its report recommends changes and steps considered practicable within the next 10 years. the news media seminar at the united nations attended by representatives of news media. they become familiar with news procedures at the united nations and are briefed on united nations activities. the conference on united nations procedures focusing on organizational and procedural reform of the united nations. participants come largely from the united nations secretariat and various missions to the united nations. other activities of the foundation include: the strategy for peace conference which explores urgent foreign policy concerns of the united states. it attracts individuals from a wide spectrum of opinion and belief who exchange ideas and recommend action and policies. the center for world order studies. a project of the stanley foundation in cooperation with the university of iowa. the center seeks to promote world peace through education and research. high priority is given to the improvement of classroom and community education to better meet the demand of the contemporary and future world community. occasional papers focusing upon study toward improvement and development of international organization more adequate to manage international crises and global change and specific topical studies of u.s. foreign policy and world order. vantage conferences designed to anticipate and evaluate indepth developing issues relating to u.s. foreign policy and international organization. early in 1974 the foundation sponsored a conference on ocean survival for the purpose of acquainting members of congress and congressional staff with the many problems related to oceans. experts discussed several aspects of ocean issues including resources. pollution. legal questions. and the united nations law of the sea conference. from the reports i have received this was an extremely successful endeavor. in the coming months the stanley foundation will provide many members of congress with summaries of the conferences it sponsors. i have found such summaries to be useful in the past and believe that they will continue to be so in the future. i encourage my colleagues to avail themselves of this excellent source of information.
i thank the distinguished majority leader for his contribution to this colloquy relative to river blindness. i k very well his strongly felt beliefs regarding foreign aid. he has always fought for aid which would go directly to the relief of human suffering around the world. i quite concur that too much foreign aid has been used for military purposes. i am very much pleased to have him make the suggestions he has on the floor of the senate today. i hope that the senate will adopt this resolution.
i quite agree with the distinguished majority leader. we have made some progress. as he very well ks. which cut out foreign aid money which had been used for police activities in some of the countries around the world which had been used for political or for military purposes. i think we are taking a much closer look at our foreign aid . to see that the foreign aid of the united states is spent for the purpose for which it should be intended. namely. the relief of human suffering. and to help countries help themselves through development assistance.
. on april 2. 1974. i. along with several of my colleagues. introduced a resolution calling for a "river blindness" rehabilitation program for the sahelian countries of africa. i am pleased that an additional 10 senators have joined us in sponsoring this measure. the resolution has been referred to the senate foreign relations committee where i hope it will receive immediate attention and be reported to the floor for the consideration by the senate as a whole. there are some hopeful indications that greater attention is being given to this aspect of the tragic situation in west africa. perhaps the major one is the recent anncement that the world bank. the world health organization. the food and agriculture organization. and the united nations development program will join in a cooperative endeavor to control the disease of "river blindness" in the volta river basin of west africa. this is a needed initiative that commands the support of all interested parties. while i recognize the merits of the control approach in combating "river blindness." i am still convinced that emphasis should also be given to rehabilitating those already the victims of this disease. hence. i hope that the agency for international development will proceed with a detailed examination of how best the united states can promote the needed rehabilitation program even though the resolution on this subject has yet to be voted on by the senate. i ask unanimous consent that both the news release from the world bank group entitled "first year costs funded for control of river blindness." and the report of the american council of voluntary agencies for foreign service entitled "sahelian drought disaster situation report  3." be printed in the record.
. in recent remarks given at michigan state university. i discussed the increasing importance of our foreign aid as we become more aware that the wellbeing of the united states is increasingly linked with with what has been termed an "era of scarcity." in the hope. that my remarks will be of some interest to my colleagues. i ask unanimous consent that my speech entitled "foreign aid in an era of scarcity" be printed in the record.
. on march 11. 1975. the georgetown university center for strategic and international studies issued the report of its private panel on international information. education and cultural relations. headed by dr. frank stanton. in essence the report recommends that the u.s. information agency be dismantled and its functions and staff distributed among three separate agencies. this report was  unanimous. a strong dissent has been entered by one of the panels members. edmund a. gullion. a foreign service officer and career minister. retired. and  dean of the fletcher school of law and diplomacy in medford. mass. aher panel member. leonard marks. a former director of usia and  chairman of the u.s. advisory commission on international educational and cultural affairs. refused to associate himself with the final report. the question of how our public diplomacy should be structured to support our national interests most effectively is  a new one. it has been debated for years. it has been -he subject of numerous studies and reviews over the past 20 years. and even  is being studied by the murphy commission on the organization of the government for the conduct of foreign policy and by the congressional research service. these studies do  question the fact that the ability to communicate effectively with foreign people. to explain our nation. its institutions and its policies is an essential element in the conduct of our foreign policy. they do  question the fact that we must engage in a.sustained dialog with both friends and adversaries if we are to achieve collective action to meet our common problems. what is in question is how these information and cultural activities should be organized. where they should be located and who should conduct them. it is this question which is addressed in dean gullions dissenting views. i have kn and admired dean gullion for many years. few people can speak with the depth of kledge and experience that he brings to foreign affairs. few have had more firsthand kledge of the practice. problems and requirements of american diplomacy. his distinguished career in the foreign service spanned more than 35 years. with assignments on four continents. he is  dean of one of our countrys outstanding graduate schools in international law and diplomacy. and was instrumental in establishing the edward e. murrow center of public diplomacy at the fletcher school. over the years. i have developed a deep respect for dean gullions opinions. and i therefore read his closely reasoned dissent with careful attention. since the issues raised by the stanton report bear upon vital aspects of our public diplomacy. i commend dean gullions views to the senate and ask unanimous consent that his letter be printed in the record.
. i believe also that this amendment has the added virtue of by having members of the united nations and voluntary organizations distribute this assistance in south vietnam. opening the possibilty that they could serve as an inhibiting factor to reprisals and further destruction of life which could occur in the months ahead but which we prayerfully hope will . i have discussed this amendment with the floor manager of the bill and with the ranking miity member of the committee on foreign relations and i am hopeful that the distinguished manager of the bill and the distinguished ranking miity member of the committee will accept this amendment.
. it is  just a matter of helping the united nations or helping other countries. certainly that in itself is of great value. but we are helping the united states of america. which is. of course. our primary interest. i think we will do so. and i hope we will continue to do so. by helping defeat the amendment of the senator from virginia. which. although he offers it in good faith and with the sincere belief that we have to cut back some place. is  the proper action to take at this time.
. in response to the distinguished senator from virginia. i assure him that this resolution only expresses the sense of congress. it does  commit the united states to participate in the special financing facility of the oecd. the question of how the financing would be done. of course. would be left up to congress to decide independent of this resolution. and even the question of our participation in the special financing facility is a matter which is presently being considered by the committee on banking. housing and urban affairs on which i serve. the administration has requested $7 billion as the u.s. contribution to the facility. and the total contribution would be $25 billion. this facility would provide a safety net for oecd countries should they be faced with the effects of aher large increase in energy costs. and this safety net would likely be in the form of loan guarantees. as such there would be little likelihood of the united states ever having to actually provide any dollars. but i assure our colleague important questionsi k of his support for this resolution. but i also k of his concern so far as the financing ofit isthat it is neither the intention of the resolution  its advocates to commit congress to a course of monetary action. i point out that assistance to italy could also come through existing international mechanisms such as the international monetary fund.
. in response to the distinguished senator from virginia. i shall read the pertinent section of the resolution: sec. 3. it is the sense of the congress that the united states. in conjunction with other friends and allies of italy. should stand ready to participate in efforts to provide financial assistance to italy through the proposed oecd special financing facility and/or by other means deemed appropriate. i suggest to the senator from virginia
. this amendment would provide greater coordination of united nations technical assistance activities by the united nations development program in contradistinction to the present practice of permitting various united nations affiliated organizations to carry out technical assistance activities independent of adequate coordination by the united nations development program. i have discussed the amendment with the distinguished floor manager and the ranking miity member. and to my understanding they are willing to accept the amendment.
yes. i will be very pleased to. as i say. this amendment would provide for greater coordination of united nations technical assistance activities by the united nations development program in contradistinction to the present practice of permitting various united nations affiliated organizations to carry out technical assistance activities independent of adequate coordination by the united nations development program. in addition. itfirst. provides for greater centralization of administration of technical assistance by the u.n.. second conforms to the spirit of the government operations committee report calling for consolidation of u.n. functions. and third. will bring about greater efficiency in the u.n. system and. hopefully. a reduction in the growth of bureaucracies at the united nations that are siphoning off sorely needed funds for development.
. we all fervently hope we can move to nuclear techogies which pose threat of global destruction. but for the present period of transition from a petrochemically fueled ecoy i intend to keep supporting research and development of a wide variety of nuclear fission techogy options.
finally. the presidents action is one more example of his propensity to undercut those in the congress who find merit in certain of his administrations proposals and are willing to fight for their passage. the senate is only too painfully aware of this propensity. his action on the foreign assistance appropriations bill further reduces the willingness in the congress to take seriously the programs he proposes.  of the united states in trying to get a foreign aid bill through i think is unconscionable. and that has prompted me to make this very strong statement today. and send this message to the white house. which i hop~e they will hear clearly. and  attempt to undercut our efforts as we face this important issue.  only this year but in the years ahead.
 sadats diplomacy as able "to freeze the nile." it is impossible at present to decipher accurately the motives for this cool response on the part of the administration. a new york times editorial this morning suggested six possibilities. and which i ask unanimous consent to be printed in the record at the end of my remarks.
. i am pleased to cosponsor these two amendments proposed by the distinguished chairman of the banking committee because i strongly believe that u.s. participation in the imf supplementary financing facility should be subject to the appropriations process and. also. that the salaries of the u.s. executive director and alternate director of the imf should correspond to those received by other government officials in similar capacities. furthermore. i believe that the full amount of the u.s. commitment to participate in the imf facility. the equivalent of sdr 1.450 millionapproximately $1.7 billionmust be appropriated if the united states is to be committed to that amount. i intend therefore to move that language to that effect be included in the banking committees report. and i will. as a member of the appropriations committee. work toward that end.
. i present for appropriate reference a group of 20 petitions. sent to me from 26 communities in 14 counties in the state of ohio. bearing approximately 1.475 signatures. urging the enactment of senate bill 860.
i e that the resolution advocated by the senator refers to an agreement with "free and sovereign nations." but there is hing in the iesolution to indicate that we are asking or insisting that all the united nations join in the agreement. will the senator explain why the resolution does  say that all the united nations shall be within the agreement.
according to the senator from texas. of course. we can compel all the united nations to come in. but we can invite all to come in. and indicate in the. statement of our purposes that we want them all in.
simply in order that there may be misunderstanding. let me inquire why can the language be so worded as to state that all the united nations would be invited. and that would be a premiseall the united .nations which might be eligible to join.
the question is one which was prompted by the remarks the senator made a moment ago. when i previously rose. i understood the senator to say that the dominions of the british commonwealth of nations would  be included under the words "free and sovereign nations."
i think that secretary hull has stated the case clearly. and i certainly do  enlarge it to the point of approaching support of the world. i concur in secretary hulls statement of the relationship between internal and external relationsboth sides of the questionand his. words "peaceful cooperation" tie in with the language of the amendment. and. mind you. this language is being considered by the senate in october in the light of official statements made in september. and placed in the record of the senate just before the resolution was submitted to the senate by the very same senator who had secretary hulls address printed in the record. i do  mean that he presented the amendment. but he submitted the resolution we are proposing to amend. . i repeat that the proposed amendment. as i see it. would enable senate resolution 192. as amended. to meet all the six tests i have presented. first. the amendment states a robust american policy. expressing the purposes. the ideals. and the best interests of america in establishing and maintaining a just and lasting peace in the postwar world in a way that will inspire the confidence of america in that policy. . to be sure. the policy expressed meets little more than the minimum test for such a policy. but nevertheless there is great value in those two minimum features. the amendment calls for the united states joining with at least all of the united nations in the establishment and maintenance of an international organization to meet the changing needs of the future. it goes further than this. it provides for including with the united nations also "such free and sovereign nations as may be duly admitted." it also provides that such international organization shall be gierally available to meet the needs of the times. it provides for the establishment and maintenance of it "to promote cooperation among nations. with authority to settle international disputes peacefully and with power. including military force. to suppress military aggression and to preserve the peace of the world." this recognition of all the united nations. and this reference to other nations to be added to them. is a recognition of the rights and aspirations of the small as well as the large nations of the earth. again i remind the senate that the united states once was one of the small nations of the world.
i agree with the senator from tennesseee. it should  be inserted. and it is  inserted. it would be far from my desire to insert it or to insert the implication of it. what i read to the senator is this. in the amendment: that the united states. acting through its constitutional processes. join with the other united nations and such free and sovereign nations as may be duly admitted. in the establishment and maintenance of an international organization. hing is said about the form it would take. and hing is intended to be said about the form it would take.
 in negotiating a treaty. and it will strengthen his hands in every international relationship he may experience. i believe it will be helpful. in consideration of the phrase "such free and sovereign nations" and the need and propriety of including in the resolution the phrase "all the united nations." to made reference to the extraordinarily able and clear speech of the senior senator from texas . delivered on august 27. in texas. the speech is printed at page a3770 of the i refer particularly to the following quotation: so long as the nations imposing the peace shall be ready and willing to maintain that peace by the last argument of military force. it will live. the united nations must. when our enemies are mastered. establish an international agency to determine disputes over boundaries. over all the. quarrels that lead to international war and to arrest aggression and criminal conquest. such an agency. unless invested with power to enforce its decisions. can survive. it must have authority to call upon member nations for troops and navies. when necessary. to enforce its decrees and impose upon aggressors and violators of the law of nations punishment for their crimes. then the senator from texas. illustrative of his convictions in this matter. pointed out the following: from our commanding point of vantage we muz- declare to the world that our influence and our might will be dedicated to the maintenance of world peace and the suppression of military aggression whenever it may lift its venemous head. the united states must be a member of the peace agency. without that membership it will fall. russia must be a parts * * * great britain must be a member. great old china must have a seat. * * * other members of the united nations must have a place at the council table. again: the senate of the united states will at an early date consider a resolution expressing the desire of the united states to join in the establishment of a world peace agency to curb international bandits and robbers and to preserve the peaceof the world. such an agency does  necessarily imply that world conditions will be frozen.
i should like to ask aher question along the same line. i take it then the senator feels that the primary obligation which faces us. both from the point of view of domestic stability and .that of our international relations. is our obligation to find some means of maintaining our peace and security at the close of the fighting. whenever that may be. on the day when the armistice is signed. we will have. at least. momentary worldwide military stability because the united nations will have defeated the greatest attack upon the world in the history of civilization. therefore. does it  become vital. essential. and elemental that in order to maintain our peace and security we must make sure that the united nations remain united in peace as well as in war.
so far as i k. that is the only one where that issue arose. it happened to come up in the first one. i would say that the necessary integration between the military forces and u. n. r. r. a. should take place by assigning the military officials for temporary integrating duty with u. n. r. r. a. rather than attempting to advance the representatives of u. n. r. r. a. into the uniformed and primarily military activities of the occupying forces. in other words. they 6an largely integrate back. instead of integrating forward. in order to keep the activities adequately informed of local conditions and needs. a new agreement covering this particular situation is  being negotiated. it is important to the future relations of the united nations with the local populations in the liberated territories. that u. n. r. r. a. itself be completely disassociated with whatever conflicts of opinion and use of force may be incident to the activities of the occupying forces. in yugoslavia the activities of u. n. r. r. a. apparently have been somewhat delayed through the difficulty of coming to a full understanding between the representatives of the liberated territory and the military forces as to the control and distribution of relief in the liberated territory. u. n. r. r. a. apparently has been ready and anxious to proceed. my fourth point as to u. n. r. r. a. is as follows: (d) in order that u. n. r. r. a. may be available for the critically important relief. refugee. and health services for which it exists. it is necessary that it develop and hold available a substantial organization ready to enter into the liberated areas promptly when needed. this necessarily has resulted in some inactivity between the time when the relief groups have been assembled and the time when it has been possible to put them to full use. this schedule has been dependent upon military operations and the available communication and transportation facilities in the liberated areas. the necessity for such advance preparation of units of u. n. r. r. a. for this work is clear. and the justification of the existence of an organization of the united nations to render this type of service probably will become increasingly clear as its operations are extended.
. i renew the ice which i gave last friday. which was briefly discussed. to the effect that i would ask for the floor briefly on the convening of the senate tomorrow with a view to making a statement with regard to the charter of the united nations  being put into shape at san francisco. and with particular emphasis on its effect on our foreign policy.
. unless we clearly see the need for the establishment of some general international organization at the earliest practicable date. we may easily underestimate the vital importance to america and to the survival of civilization of our reaching some agreement upon this issue at once. unless we fully appreciate the tragic alternative of everthreatening war which will face america and the world in the absence of such an agreement. we may be inclined to reject a charter because of its failure in some relatively unimportant particular to conform to our views. if we are convinced. as i am convinced. that some charter establishing a general international organization for the maintenance of international peace and security is essential to the survival and development of america and the world. we shall strive for a charter which shall conform as far as possible to our wishes. before we would reject a charter in its entirety we should make sure that its defects are so gross that they would create a condition which would be worse for us and for our children and for the world than that which would result from the total absence of a charter with all the danger that a reliance upon the international law of the jungle involving the survival of the strongest in a state of perpetual warfare. would mean to america. on the other hand. we must  overestimate the contribution which a mere international mechanism can make to the lasting peace of the world. we must  exaggerate either its scope or its force. we must place it in its true perspective and turn our attention likewise to such other actions as we should take to preserve our nation and to attain our ideals. accordingly. in reviewing the situation presented by the charter of the united nations which has been developing at san francisco. i shall discuss: first. the necessity for international stability. second. the wisdom of the approval of the proposed charter of the united nations. third. the necessity for other action. in addition to the approval of the charter of the united nations if such approval be given.
i thank the senator from michigan. . having in mind that i have just presented to the senate the terms of article 42 and article 43 dealing with the making available of armed force. i may say that these sections in effect provide for the use of the allied forces on much the same basis after world war ii as they have been applied during world war ii. article 45 makes an added provision to meet urgent military requirements by providing that members of the united nations shall hold immediately available national airforce contingents for combined international enforcement action. a military staff committee is made responsible for the strategic direction of any armed forces placed at the disposal of the security council. subject to the entry of the united nations into the special agreements for providing these forces. these provisions of the charter will bring the full military effectiveness of the members of the united nations to the support of the decisions of the security council that such action should be taken. the practical value of these provisions is that the united nations. through the security council. are for the first time enabled to count upon the cooperation of each other at an early stage of proceedings threatening the peace of the world. through making such forces of each of the united nations available upon call of the security council. each of those nations is enabled to rely upon each of the others. thus. it becomes possible to bring to bear their combined forces at a time when such action might well preserve the peace of the world and defeat a campaign of aggression at its early stages. or even in fact before it had really started. this  only would be easier than at a later stage of the campaign. but it could be accomplished with a far less expenditure of life and resources than it could later. or perhaps it could be accomplished with such expenditures at all. equally important as the actual effectiveness of this program of military action is the value of having its potentialities immediately available. it is to be hoped that the demonstrated availability of such force ready for use against those who might break the peace or commit an act of aggression will dissuade them from attempting to do so. in private life it is rare that even the most lawless outlaw will commit assault and battery in the immediate presence of a squad of competent policemen. it is important. however. to appreciate the inherent weakness and as well the inherent strength of the provisions in this charter for calling armed forces into action. whatever action is taken by the security council to call upon such forces must be subject to the limitations of articles 27 and 39. article 27 prescribes the voting procedure of the council. it requires that for a decision on these issues there must be an affirmative vote of seven members of the council. including the concurring votes of all of the five permanent members. this vote and this full concurrence is required even though the members that are to vote are themselves parties to the dispute. this is the rule of unanimity. or the general right of any one of the five permanent members of the council to veto action of this kind by the security council. under article 39. the security council first must determine affirmatively the jurisdictional question of the existence of a "threat to the peace. breach of the peace. or act of aggression" before it decides upon the measures to be taken under articles 41 and 42 to maintain or restore international peace and security. the rule of unanimity applies both to the determination of the jurisdictional question and to the decision upon the enforcement measures to be taken after the council has ascertained the existence of "the threat to the peace. breach of the peace. or act of aggression" justifying the taking of them. on the negative side. this means that without the concurrence of at least seven members of the security council. including that of all of its permanent members. affirmative action can be taken by the council either on the jurisdictional issue or on the resort to enforcement measures. this provides for two kinds of veto. first it places a veto power in.the hands of any five members of the security council. permanent or temporary. because any five can block the other six. this is a veto power available to any five of the small or medium nations on the council. even against the votes of xci505 the big five permanent members of the council. likewise. it places a veto power in any one of the big five permanent members of the council. even though that member be a party to the dispute and be involved in making the threat to the peace of the world. the effect of these limitations is that while this mechanism for the use of ecoic or military force is an advance beyond any comparable mechanism set up in the league of nations. it is substantially limited by its own provisions. on the other hand. this mechanism makes readily available the combined armed forces of the united nations to enforce the peace. provided that all the five permanent members of the council. plus two of the others. agree that the occasion amounts to a threat to the peace. breach of the peace. or act of aggression. and to take military measures to stop it. accordingly. as against nations that are  members of the united nations and as against any of the 45 united nations  includedin the big five. this provides an agency of great significance and value. it is especially important because all the nations which were aggressor nations in world war ii are excluded from the big five. and for the present are excluded from the united nations organization. for the present. special provision is made in articles 53 and 107 to meet this emergency. and in the long run this armed agency will be at the least an important peace force ready for use against any aggression for which the aggressor nations may be responsible. this agency thus becomes. within certain limits. a new and effective force for peace as long as the big five remain united and as long as e of the big five is itself a breaker of the peace. as viewed by the world in general. this produces an extraordinary agency because for the first time in modern history. by the vote of seven nations. the tremendous mobilized forces and facilities of the 50 united nations may be called promptly into action to defend the world against a threat to its peace. a breach of its peace. or an act of aggression. it is provided in article 44 that before the security council shall call upon a member of the united nations.  represented on the security council. to provide armed forces in fulfillment of these obligations it shall "invite that member. if the member so desires. to participate in the decisions of the security council concerning the employment of contingents of that members armed forces." this has been the socalled "taxation without representation" clause. it contemplates. for example. that if canada is  on the security council. and her armed forces are to be used to enforce the peace. canada shall be invited to participate in the decisions of the security council concerning the employment of canadas armed forces. this apparently means that canada would have full participation. including a vote in the decision of the council with respect to the use of canadas armed forces. but she would  vote on the prior decision that armed forces are to be used. she could  by her vote veto the decision to use such forces. the same right is granted to every other member of the organization in the security council in the event that its armed forces are to be used. e of these members. however. may participate in any decision of the security council except that which concerns the employment of contingents of its own armed forces:.
i agree. if i were to have any doubt about "facilities." i certainly would be satisfied by "assistance." . assuming. therefore. as a practical example. that the security council is  able to secure a settlement of an international dispute through the acceptance. by the parties to the dispute. of the terms recommended by it. but is able to gain the support of the big five. plus two other members of the security council. to the use of armed forces to preserve the peace. then there will be available such impressive air. sea. and land forces that the mere presence and availability of those forces will be a tremendous factor in maintaining the peace. it is to be hoped the demonstration of the readiness of those forces for united action will be sufficient to nip in the bud what might otherwise become aher world war. this statement of the limitations on the availability of these armed forces illustrates that in the last analysis the strength of this provision and likewise the strength of this charter depends upon the continued unity of the big five and upon their determination to maintain peace. justice. and security in the world. one of the big five will join in calling out the armed forces .of the united nations against itself. in fact. one of the big five probably would join in finding the necessary jurisdictional fact that any action or proposed action on its part constituted such a "threat to the peace. breach of the peace. or act of aggression" as would justify the security council in calling upon the armed forces of the united nations to resist it. this result is criticized by some as a weakness. because it makes it impossible for the armed forces of the rest of the united nations to be used against one of the big five. on the other hand. this result is a source of strength for the charter in that it gives absolute assurance to each of the big five that they will  be asked to use their armed forces in some military enterprise in which they do  concur. for example. the united states can be required by the action of any of the other united nations to use our military forces in any united nations military campaign which we do  approve.
. it is with great pride. as a citizen of new jersey. and with deep personal satisfaction. that i rise to speak briefly. following the remarks of my distinguished colleague. the senior senator from new jersey . in behalf of confirmation of the ination of robert c. hendrickson as ambassador of the united states to new zealand. few of his colleagues need any word from me as to his qualifications. his experience. or the great abilities which he brings to this new task. therefore. as a representative of my state. and in seconding what my distinguished senior colleague has said. i wish to say that we are very proud that we are able to offer to the service of the nation one who has so long and so very well served in public office. the good wishes of all residents of new jersey will go with him and with his lovely wife. as they undertake the new job which i k both of them will perform with great distinction and to the ho and benefit of everyone.
 eisenhower and secretary dulles have said that the door is certainly  closed to further negotiations. of course the door is  closed to further negotiations.  will it ever be closed by our government. our only interest is the establishment of peace in this area of the world. and in all the world. it is my fervent hope that. as a result of these discussions. without a sacrifice of our unique position. which is invaluable to israel as well as to the rest of the. world. a position which we alone possess. there will be lessening of our ability to help bring about a peaceful solution in this area. i am hopeful that ways can be found by which the israeli government may find itself able to comply with the united nations resolution.
as the senator ks. i have a great deal of respect for his ability and for his experience and for his deep desire to make a contribution in this very difficult area. as in all other areas. however. i have intention of withdrawing in the slightest from the position i have taken. namely. that i believe the united states occupies .a unique position in all the western world so far as our ability is concerned to bring about a peaceful settlement in * this most difficult area. i believe that many of the suggestions the senator has made embody worthy objectives. and some of them quite feasible ones. i do  desire in any way to get into a controversy with him on this question. i believe that american should want to differ from aher american on this subject. and i certainly do  wish to differ with a senator for whom i have such high regard. i suggest. however. that the matter of working out these specific problems is one which must necessarily be left to the people in charge of the operation of our government. particularly those in the executive department and with those in our delegation to the united nations. i recognize the unique position of the senator from minnesota in that regard. because he has represented our country in the united nations. nevertheless. i suggest that probably man is more capable and more kledgeable about the way to bring about a satisfactory result than the secretary general of the united nations. and that our policyand i believe the senator from minnesota will agree with me in this regardshould be one of supporting to the full the secretary general of the united nations in his efforts to bring about a solution of the problem and in his use of the specifics that are suggested. i had  intended to delay the senator so long. because i k he has other 2480 co matters he wishes to discuss. and i do  desire to become involved in a partisan controversy on such a subject. however. i could  refrain from reiterating the opinion which i had stated. that we must preserve the unique position we have. we can do all and accomplish every objective the senator has suggested. with which i agree fully. but at the same time we must  lose the very unique position we enjoy.
 should have complete discretion with regard to the use of support for the united nations forces. and should support them. in my judgment. fully. and i am confident he will. i believe we are doing a possibly dangerous and limiting thing if we adopt the amendment in the form in which it is  framed.
i appreciate the contribution of the senator from vermont. i understand that he. like myself and many other members of this. body who are  unwilling to vote for this amendment. take that position because we fear that it would be harmful. we fear that it would limit the support we give to the united nations forces. rather than in any sense indicate that we hope the united nations forces would  be used.
as the earlier wording provided. it would have allowed the president to continue to furnish. on such terms and conditions as he might find appropriate. facilities and military assistance to the united nations emergency forces in the middle east. i. believe the matter should be left in that position and that we should  be hampered by conditions which. at the best. are difficult to determine. and perhaps some which will be determined to be very limiting. to our detriment.
 of the foreign service education foundation. used in his recent testimony before the committee on foreign affairs of the house of representatives: the relative strength of the u. s. s. r. and of the united states are so nearly balanced that what happens to the intervening states and the positions which they take can be crucial in affecting that balance. russias violent reaction to the hungarian uprising shows that she understands this very clearly. a successful defection by hungary would have been so disastrous to the russian position that she felt obliged to suppress it in the most brutal fashion. even though her brutality cost her dearly in terms of world opinion. similarly. the defection to the soviet side of the european countries or the loss of the afroasian bloc or of the other presently uncommitted peoples would be a shattering blow to us. presently outside the soviet orbit are nations. containing almost half the population of the world. which are relatively underdeveloped. socially and ecoically. in all these nations there is rising pressure to achieve freedom. both in terms of the absence of external control and also in the positive sense of capacity to decide and act on their own. rightly. these countries. and especially the individuals in these countries with the capacity for leadership and the ambition to exercise it. look upon ecoic development as a necessary condition to real nationhood. whether we like it or . these countries will drive for ecoic development. it is almost impossible to overstate how important it is to our security that that drive should proceed along lines which will enable these countries to retain their independence and  along a course which will lead them into the communist camp. it is by means clear that if we do hing about it the development of these countries will proceed along independent lines. indeed. the preponderance of the evidence suggests that the otherand. for us. disastrousresult will follow. communism its ideology but its totalitarian methodshas a strong attraction to those with leadership capacities in the underdeveloped countries. a number of reasons account for this unfortunate fact. a prime requirement for ecoic development is capital. but these countries are desperately poor. and their income is barely sufficient for the subsistence of their people. without totalitarian controls. it is difficult. if  impossible. to persuade people whose total earnings are barely egh to keep themselves alive to divert a significant part of those earnings from consumption into productive investment. a hungry man is  likely to forgo bread in order to buy lathes. in a communist totalitarian society the managers can turn the screws on the people and forcibly extract from their meager earnings the capital required for ecoic expansion. ecoic development means that many of the old habits. customs. and ways of life of a people will be changed. this is unsettling and in many cases unpleasant for great numbers of people. under a totalitarian regime. the necessary changes can be imposed regardless of the wishes of the people. it is impossible to disprove that ecoic reconstruction. in its early stages at least. may well proceed more rapidly in a totalitarian than in a democratic society. the whip is easier to apply than selfdiscipline. and it can be denied that in the underdeveloped countries the kind of social organization which exists under communism all too often has a powerful fascination for the people of ability. for the managers. for those capable of running the show. as walter lippmann has pointed out. the communists are proposing to this group "a plan of ecoic reconstruction which promises much quicker results than anything we can propose. and with it all the privileges of supreme personal power for themselves." empty promise or . the prospect has an attraction as undeniable as that of the green apple for the youngster on the other side of the fence. to offset this last attraction there is  much that we can do directly. we can and must do everything possible to establish and maintain sympathetic communication between the western world and the leadership groups of the underdeveloped countries. the exchangeofpersons programs at all levels can be vitally important here. as can our own direct personal contacts with individuals. especially the educated classes in these countries. but the black and sinister aspects of communist totalitarianism were undoubtedly burned into the minds of political and intellectual leaders the world over by russias conduct in hungary. surely. since the events of last ember. the communist method must seem a good deal less attractive than it did before. i suggest that it is a good bet that the leadership groups in the underdeveloped countries. like many of those in poland and some of the other satellites. are  somewhat disenchanted with communism. i suspect that many of them are  at least willing to try to bring about the development of their countries in ways which avoid entangling themselves and their countries in the communist web. but. with the best will in the world. these countries can get ecoic development underway without investment capital. and the hard fact is that for the immediate present in many countries only totalitarian methods can squeeze that capital out of the earnings of their own peopleearnings which are barely sufficient to keep them alive. if their ecoic development is to proceed along democratic lines. most of the capital. at least at the beginning. must come from the outside. it would seem reckless. indeed.  to seize the opportunity to make it possible for these countries to develop along lines compatible with our own interests. that means we must find a way to help provide the capital. without which ecoic development is impossible. i am sure that at this point there will be some who will say: "ah. yes. it is the same old story. he is talking about foreign aidthe giveaway programs. more money down the rathole. and the like." of course. we have had foreignaid programs before. i am the last to suggest that there have  been abuses and in *some instances waste and failures. yet. on the whole. the foreignaid programs of the past have succeeded in their purposesthe relief of postwar distress. the rebuilding of western europe and the military strengthening of friendly nations in europe and asia. and we have scattered programs of technical assistance. and a very mi amount of direct assistance to ecoic development. it comes as a surprise to many to discover just how mi that amount has been. the johnston report points this out: of a total of $3.8 billion currently appropriated for mutual security. only 10 percent. or $35c million. is allocated for technical assistance and ecoic development for all countries with which we do  have security arrangements. twothirds of united states military aid goes to 6 nations with which we have security arrangements who together have a total population of 170 million. the remaining onethird is spread among other nations representing a total population of 900 million. but. as howard c. peterson. of the committee for ecoic development. told the house foreign affairs committee last fall. we are  facing something newthe challenge of ecoic development abroad which is only  rising to major importance and which we have  previously tried to meet on a major scale. the fact is that we have  had a comprehensive. systematic. or adequate program for assistance to ecoic development in the underdeveloped world. i believe it is because we have  yet had such a program that our socalled foreign aid or mutual security programs have had increasingly rough going in congress in recent years. i am equally confident that if our stake in the ecoic development of the underdeveloped countries is made clear to the american people. they will  reject an adequate program for assistance in such development and will  shrink from its costs. indeed. the countrys leading polls have consistently shown overwhelming support among the american people for the aid programs. according to one recent poll. 85 percent of our people favor ecoic assistance to less developed countries. an even higher percentage than favor military assistance. a number of studies have been made. and others are still under way. of the problem of the ecoic development of the underdeveloped countries and of what should be american policy in regard to assisting such development. at the outset i referred to the recent report of the fairless committee. that report does  contain a single direct reference. to say hing of an adequate discussion. of a true development program. i regret this deeply. and i can understand it. (at this point mr thye. and a colloquy ensued. which appears at the conclusion of the speech by mr. case of new jersey.)
i join my colleagues in their expression of appreciation to the senator from rhode island for a very learned and persuasive. and. as the senator from illis has said. moving address on this most important subject. it is in the highest traditions of the senate that he has served as a member of the joint committee on atomic energy. as a senator. and as our delegate to the united nations in this most important field. all of us share with him the belief that this is the right and proper and only way in which we can make progress toward bringing within the control of reasonable men of good will this awful force which has been unleashed. i am grateful for the bipartisanship he has shown and for the fairness with which he has dealt with this problem. without any considerations of party. or anything like that. here we are americans. and americans only. i can too strongly express my appreciation to the senator from rhode island for his splendid address.
. i wish to add my commendation to those which already have been made of the work done by the senator from alabama . it was a distinct pleasure for me to be associated with him in connection with the earl:.er draft of the concurrent resolution. his success in obtaining the approval and recommendation of the foreign relations committee is most timely. because. as has already been stated on the floor of the senate. this matter has a direct bearing on the current situation in the middle east. it is certa: nly true. as was so well pointed out by the senator from california . that this united nations force. in any shape in which it conceivably o:: feasibly may be created. will by means be the entire answer to the problem we face. it still will be necessary. as he pointed out. and as was pointed out by the senator from wisconsin . for our country and its allies to have strength in material and military ways and to have the strength. the will. and the determination to exert the influence and fulfill the responsibilities that power brings with it in this world. this provision is by means a substitute for those things. either on our part or on the part of our allies. it is quite true. as the committee report itself states. that problems exist even in connection with the details of the establishment and management of a united nations police force of this sort. nevertheless. this is a very real step in the right direction. it may have important value in leading to a solution of the situation  existing in the middle east. and. perhaps most important of all. in the present juncture. the action of the senate in approving the concurrent resolutionand i hope it will be agreed to unanimouslywill have important value in making very clear to the world that today. as always. our country has desire whatever for aggrandizement. and has purpose of aggression. and that it supports to the fullest extent possible all efforts and activities of the united nations to be of use in connection with matters which affect one or more countries.
. a number of editorials all across the nation have paid tribute this week to the effective and vigorous representation of ambassador henry cabot lodge in the united nations. his decision to resign as of september 3 in order to campaign for the vice presidency has served to emphasize the many contributions to world peace and understanding of this authentic "voice of america" in the u.n. time after time. ambassador lodge has quickly and ably rebutted soviet distortions with american facts. he has countered communist misstatements with free world truth. as a result. his own stature and that of the u.n. and the free world have been enhanced. ambassador lodges unexcelled kledge of diplomatic techniques and soviet talents will serve him and his nation well whatever the future may hold in store for him. i am pleased to have this opportunity to salute him for a job well done in the u.n. and to wish him well in the days ahead. i also wish to call to the attention of the senate an editorial which appeared in the new york times of august 21. concerning ambassador lodges resignation. i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record.
. i believe we must all admire the skill with which the secretary general of the united nations organized these forces and the great service which he has already rendered to the cause of world peace with their assistance. but we must ask ourselves whether the brilliant improvisations of the secretary general would be possible in somewhat altered circumstances. some of the initial troops and officers for the congo operation last july were drawn from the united nations emergency force in the middle east. had the middle eastern mission of the united nations  been in existence. these initial troops would  have been instantly available. the united nations force in the congo reached its greatest strength of slightly over 20.000 men only after a buildup requiring several months. a larger initial force. more quickly available. would doubtless have been even more effective in the congo and. in other circumstances. might well be crucial. much of the united nations force in the congo was transported to the scene through the assistance of the united states. and much of its supplies and equipment were furnished by the united states. if this country had happened to have other pressing military commitments at the time. this assistance might  have been available. considerations such as these suggest the importance of a permanent united nations force. with at least some of its units fully trained. accustomed to united nations command. and with assured transport to any trouble area of the globe on short ice. we are all aware of the financial objections which many members of the united nations have raised to the establishment of a permanent united nations force. the report of the senator from vermont on his service in the u.s. delegation to the last session of the u.n. general assembly includes this succinct statement of the broad issue applicable here: efforts to enforce peace. however. will  be decisive until the member nations both great and small are willing to support such efforts. according to secretary general hammarskjolds estimates. the current costs of world armament amount to $320 million a day. if each nation would contribute only 1 days cost to an international police force each year. it is possible that all expenses in this field could be met. it will take more than money alone to enforce peace in the world. it will take the desire for peace and the willingness to meet equitable demands and to accept the verdict. we are still far from reaching that goal. the road toward it is exasperating and frustrating. but we can give up. this explains. in part i believe. our slcw and halting progress toward the goal of a permanent united nations force for use in emergencies. enunciated by the senate of the united states in a similar resolution as early as 1957. i believe it is largely this attitude among many member states which caused the secretary general of the united nations to limit his recommendations in this field to such steps as the provision of more toplevel military personnel in the u.n. secretariat and the designation in advance of military units for service with the united nations by member states. it is precisely because the attitude of member governments and of the people they represent is the determining factor that i believe it would be useful for the u.s. senate  to reiterate its support for the creation of a permanent united nations force. such an expression by this body may help to build the international consensus needed to facilitate the achievement of the improvements which the secretary general has already advocated and. beyond that. to advocate the actual establishment of the united nations force on a permanent basis. i ask unanimous consent that the full text of my resolution be printed at this point in the record. the resolution (s. res. 92) was received and referred to the committee on foreign relations. as follows: whereas twice in recent years. an emergency force of the united nations has demonstrated its usefulness as an instrument for international order and security. and whereas an emergency united nations force can make an important contribution to the maintenance of conditions of peace and stability among nations. and whereas such a united nations force organized on a permanent basis. with advance provision for its transport and supply. could be made quickly available at troubled points throughout the world: therefore be it resolved. that it is the sense of the senate that(a) a united nations force of a similar character to the united nations emergency force in the middle east and the united nations military force in the congo should be made a permanent arm of the united nations. (b) such a force should be composed of units made available by members of the united nations: provided. that such units should be accepted from permanent members of the security council. (c) consideration should be given to arrangements whereby individuals would be allowed to volunteer for service with such a force: provided. that individuals who are nationals of permanent members of the security council should  be acceptable. (d) equipment and expenses of such a force should be provided by the united nations out of its regular budget.
madam president. i rise in opposition to the amendments offered by the senator from virginia to the foreign assistance act of 1961. the bill before the senatethe foreign assistance act of 1961is. i believe. one of the most important pieces of legislation that will come to this congress. we are going to have a foreign aid program: i think everybody concedes that. we are going to have to have it. because it is necessary. but the pending bill contains several controversial provisions. the most important of which is the proposal to give the development loan fund authority to borrow from the treasury to cover its commitments over a 5year period. to me. this borrowing authority is the heart of the bill. and it would be eliminated by the byrd amendment. this longterm feature is . as some have indicated. a new proposal. in 1957 the eisenhower administration proposed a longterm program which was approved by a bipartisan majority in the senate. unfortunately. this provision was lost in conference. again in 1959. the idea was considered but a house amendment deleted the longterm commitment plan. this year a 5year program has been proposed. secretary of the treasury douglas dillon. who served as under secretary of state in the eisenhower administration. supported the longterm commitments before the senate foreign relations committee in the following words: longterm financing authority is an essential tool for the achievement of our foreign policy objectives. i am equally convinced. as secretary of the treasury. that this is the most efficient and least costly method of providing development assistance. in recent years the problem of making our foreign aid program more effective has been the subject of extensive studies both in the executive and legislative branch of our government. without exception. they have resulted in the recommendation that the program be  put on a longterm basis. thus. the weight of expert opinion supports the recommendation of both the eisenhower and kennedy administrations on this point. there are a number of reasons for this consensus. i should like briefly to refer to several of them. first. the bills provision for longterm lending authority will give the aided governments confidence that they can rely on firm commitments from the united states in carrying out their own longterm programs. ecoic and social development is  an easy task. most of these countries face an emous job. their willingness to undertake it. and their ability to accomplish it. will be greatly strengthened by the assurance of our continuing supportassurance that is  subject to the hazards of a yearly appropriation process. if they are to achieve real ecoic and social progress. these countries have to provide for tax reforms. agricultural reforms. and administrative reforms. and take many other difficult but essential steps. without the confidence that can be supplied by longterm u.s. commitments. these countries can hardly be expected to put out the effort and take the political risks which will be required. perhaps the best way to illustrate the advantages of longterm commitments would be to quote an unidentified foreign minister who said of himself and his people: in the past.  king the exact volume of aid to be received. we were often forced to be either too conservative. thereby missing opportunities for fruitful investments. or to be overoptimistic in our expectations and commit ourselves too deeply. under the proposed plan. by king several years in advance the exact amount of u.s. aid. we would be in a position to draw more accurate plans in accordance with financial responsibility and to get the greatest returns out of every aid dollar invested. even as we debate  there is in progress a meeting of the interamerican ecoic and social council in uruguay where plans are being made for the longterm reforms necessary for latin american development. secretary of the treasury dillon heads the u.s. delegation to that meeting. from uruguay. secretary dillon has cabled the chairman of the foreign relations committee as follows: three days here have heavily underlined the overriding importance of our having authority to make longterm commitments to match the major effort which latinamerican countries are  prepared to make on their own behalf. secretary dillon is  given to overstatement. it seems clear that the success of the conference in uruguay will depend in large measure upon our action here. and what is true of latin america is equally true of all the other underdeveloped areas of the world. by putting the lending program on a longterm basis. congress will give the executive branch the tools it has long sought and needed. in return the congress can and should hold the administration responsible for: first. good administration. second. the ecoic soundness of the activities to be financed. third. the consistency of such activities with other plans proposed or performed. fourth. the recipients responsiveness and his clear determination to take effective selfhelp measures. fifth. the effect on the u.s. ecoy. moreover. the longterm commitments will assure our allies of our continuing interest in the underdeveloped areas. this can and should be useful in persuading them to do their share toward the development of these areas. finally. if we would help the developing nations maintain their freedom and independence in their quest for ecoic and social progress. the aid we offer must be less adequate to their needs than the longterm assistance held out by soviet russia and communist china. all in all. it is both to our benefit and to the benefit of the aided countries to be able to give multiyear commitments with the assurance they will be fulfilled. but the 5year program is meaningless without the provision for borrowing from the treasury. this borrowing has been labeled "backdoor financing." it is . congress will  lose control. the president must make quarterly reports on lending operations to the congress. furthermore. under the government corporations control act the president must include. as part of each annual budget. the proposed lending program of the development loan fund for the coming year. in the appropriations committees these programs will be reviewed annually. and any limitations whatever can be recommended by the committees and enacted by congress as a part of the annual appropriation bills. but while the proposal would  take from congress its ultimate control over foreign aid. it is true that under the bill the burden would be on congress of justifying to itself any action it might take to cut any proposed program which is within the general lending authority provided by the bill. it would prevent a few individuals in strategic positions who oppose the whole foreign aid program from using their power over appropriations to make arbitrary reductions and eliminate programs without specific and affirmative reasons for such action. the committee on foreign relations is. in my judgment. to be congratulated upon presenting to us a formula which will provide both the benefits of the longterm lending authority and. at the same time. retain basic congressional control.
the senator from new york has put his finger on the very heart of the problem. that is exactly the point. i do  characterize any of the opponents.  do i single out anyone. but the opponents. i think. are really opposed to this provision in the bill because they are opposed to longterm financing and because they are opposed to foreign aid in their very deep philosophical beliefs. even those who do  think this is the reason. if they should succeed in putting the byrd amendments into the bill. in my judgment would be playing directly into the hands of the small group of people who. in my opinion. have been misusing the power given to them. i do  characterize their motives. and the power was given to them by virtue of their positions in the congress. so congress is responsible. they have used the power to prevent the will of the congress from being fulfilled. in my judgment. also. this has been much to the detriment of our foreign policy for many years. i think it would be a tragedy if the byrd amendments were adopted either in the senate. or their equivalent. in substance. in the other body. because i think we have at long last an opportunity to put this program on such a basis as to really serve the needs it must serve if we are to succeed in maintaining a decent. stable world. one in which peace is possible.
madam president. i am most grateful to my colleague. i can think of one whose commendation is more precious to me. it is typical of his generosity. the fact that he happens to agree with meas happens. i am glad to say. on a good many occasionsstrengthens my own convictions that i am correct. madam president. opponents of foreign aid have suggested that treasury borrowing is a new. untried method of obtaining funds. this is  true. the reconstruction finance corporation. formed under the hoover administration. was the first agency to use this system. since that time the federal national mortgage association. the federal savings and loan insurance fund. the investment guaranty program. the exportimport bank. the area redevelopment act and many others have used this same system. as a matter of fact the proposed lending program would consume each year only oneeighth of the average annual amount borrowed from the treasury during the latter part of the last administration. one is under any illusions concerning the effectiveness of past foreign aid programs. one is happy with the waste and mismanagement that have occurred. yet the way to improve matters is  to make it more difficult to operate but rather to provide basic procedures which promise a better opportunity for maximum efficiency. this. i believe. the pending bill will do. one can be sure that even with this we can attain the goals we seek. but these goals are crucially important to us and to the entire free world. it is unthinkable that we should refuse to give ourselves the best possible chance of reaching them. madam president. i urge the senate to reject the byrd amendments.
. our own government terms its policy. which is probably the crucial factor in the maintenance of peace in the middle east. one of "evenhanded" treatment of both sides. however. in the light of recent developments. i think it is more accurately described as a policy of "wishful waiting." our government hopes that the growing size of the united arab republic and its growing armament will somehow  threaten israels security. we wish that the middle eastern arms race would somehow go away. but i believe it is time to ask ourselves some hard questions. have we made every effort to assure the security and territorial integrity of israel. have we made every reasonable representation to the west german government to discourage its scientists from contributing to a military buildup in the united arabic republic. have we exerted every possible influence on behalf of the opening of direct negotiations between israel and its arab neighbors. and the achievement of a peaceful settlement of outstanding issues between them. have we fully explored the possibility of developing to the full the united nations potentialities for peace in the area. have we made it clear that if all efforts to halt the continued development of aggressive military power by the united arab republic fail. the threat to israels security will be met in full measure by u.s. assistance. we have  as yet had clear answers from our government to these vitally important questions.
. i ask unanimous consent that the amendment ( 1272) of the senator from kansas . to the foreign aid bill. and which is at the desk. be subject to a further 2day extension for the purpose of adding cosponsors.
. an unusual event took place in newark. n.j.. recently. basco de sousa jardim. retired editorpublisher of the portuguese language weekly. the lusoamerica was decorated february 19 with portugals highest civilian medal. the order of prince henry. the medal was bestowed by portuguese ambassador vasco vieira garin at a testimonial dinner attended by 700 persons. mr. jardim came to the united states in 1920 from madeira island and worked for several portuguese newspapers in fall river and new bedford. mass.. and was a reporter for the old fall river globe from 1925 to 1927. he founded the lusoamericain 1939. his son. vasco. is assistant to the publisher of the maplewoodsouth orange. n.j.. newsrecord. and aher son. edward. is a copy editor for the plainfield. n.j.. couriernews.
. i commend the senior senator from new york for his most timely and important statement. like the senator from new york. i am shocked by the executions of iraqi jews reported from baghdad on monday. secretary of state rogers spoke for all of us when he declared: the spectacle of mass public executions is repugnant to the conscience of the world. as the secretary general of the united nations has pointed out. such mass trials and executions are "particularly abhorrent and dangerous when they are carried out in such a way as to inflame the emotions of the populace." mr. thant put his finger on what is so disturbing to all of us who deplore the rising level of violence in the middle east. this tragic act in baghdad can only make much more difficult the pressing task of finding a way to peace between israel and the arab states.
. i wonder if the senator. by his proposed reservation. may  be forgetting some of the other concerns that the foreign relations committee dealt with here. for example. it was  necessary in our judgment if it were proven that the treaty did  obligate us to use our armed forces under any circumstances whatever. it did  say so. and the foreign relations committee. faced with a treaty that says this is a black rose. did  have to add a reservation to the effect that this means it is  a red rose. that seems very clear. it is unnecessary to be concerned about it. we were concerned about some of the events which had taken place prior to our receipt of the treaty from the executive branch. one was a resolution in the united nations security council. aher was a declaration. we went into these matters and the effect on the senates ratification of the treaty beyond those actions. and whether the senate ratification of the treaty could be considered possibly to be a grant of power to the executive branch to do in the future what it did  have the power to do under the constitution. without congressional approval. these were the kinds of things that were far more important than doing what the senator would do by his reservation. which we think we have dealt with adequately and fully. i believe that the adoption of a resolution of the type suggested by the senator from th carolina might very well raise a question as to whether.  saying anything about these matters. he was approving them. and that the senate.  saying anything about these matters when it made a reservation about something it was completely unnecessary to make a reservation about. was  passing them over and getting us into deep water.
. on december 11. 1971. the united nations childrens fund celebrated its 25th anniversary. to observe this milestone of constructive work by this important agency in the united nations family. the new york times published an editorial entitled "a future for every child." it is such an excellent comment on unicef that i commend it to the senate. i ask unanimous consent that the editorial be printed in the record.
 or to unduly elevate the standing of congress. this is a plain matter of fact. if this is different from the way matters have been conducted before. so be it. the founding fathers intended things to be different. if this suggests that the old ways of diplomacy carried on by an elite should end. so be it. too.
. in 1967. when the old city of jerusalem came into israeli hands for the first time since the struggle of 1948 and 1949. authorities were appalled at the damages wrought to that ancient city. of the 35 synagogues that populated the old city. 34 of the synagogues were totally destroyed. including the ancient hurva synagogue. a landmark in the old city that stood there since the year 1267. the old jewish cemeteries. including those that held the remains of ancient scholars and sages. were desecrated and. in one case. a roadway was constructed across the cemetery grounds. headstones and markers of the past were crushed and used for paving roads and other purposes. christians who wished to come to the old city were turned away except on christmas. moslems living in israel were  permitted to come to the old sacred city at all. since that time the situation has changed dramatically. access to the city for christians. moslems. and jews is  blocked. the holy places of all faiths are maintained by separate administrations of each religious group. laws protect all holy places and guarantee the light of celebrants of all faiths to worship as they will. moreover. reconstruction and restoration of old buildings and landmark structures have swiftly taken place. renewing the charm. grace. and significance of old jerusalem for all peoples. additionally. archeological studies undertaken with utmost scientific care have begun to piece together the historical and cultural life of the hebrews. christians. and moslems that made the city the holy place it is. the national coalition of american nuns summarized well the meaning of the changes since 1967. they said: israel has rebuilt jerusalem. pouring into it millions of dollars and more especially untold human resources. jerusalem is  available to all faiths and never before have the holy places been so protected and maintained. it is hard to believe in view of the progress made in old jerusalem that it is possible for a world organization like the united nations educational scientific and cultural organization to act to condemn the state of israel for "persistently altering the historical features of the city of jerusalem." and inviting the director general of unesco to "withhold assistance from israel in the fields of education and culture" because of its alleged actions. yet that is precisely what unesco has done. the political and humanitarian arm of the united nations has been used to carry on a blatantly political attack on the status of the city of jerusalem. even after consistent reports by unescos own investigators affirmed the care given the historical antiquities of the city by israel. further. at its recent general conference meeting in paris unesco voted further political sanctions on israel. it has excluded israel from the european group of unesco. thus leaving israel a member of regional group of the organization and effectively eliminating it from meaningful participation in the organization. and. unesco  has decided to send scientific cultural and educational aid to the palestine liberation organizationfor the first time using membernation funds to finance a terrorist organization. certainly these are unhappy times for an organization with a distinguished tradition of humanitarian aid. under that tradition. for example. unesco has carried on an educational program in gaza and in the west bank areas in israel which both israel and the arab members have found to be highly successful. unesco is an organization that serves the cause of ecoic. educational. and scientific development in the third world nations primarily. to function it needs the expertise and skills made available by the developed statesincluding israel which has contributed far more to unesco than it has received. the united states has more to give as a nation to unesco than perhaps any other country. it must be made clear. however. that u.s. participation is contingent on the continuation of unesco as a humanitarian organization. the offensive resolutions recently adopted by unesco must be repealed. my amendment to the foreign aid bill. if adopted. would cut off all u.s. funds to unesco until the secretary of state certifies to the congress that each resolution passed by unesco  of an educational. scientific. or cultural character has been repealed. this applies to the reprehensive resolutions concerning israel and to any similar resolutions aimed at a particular country. the u.s. government has made its financial contribution to unesco this year. whether the u.s. government should make further contributions in the coming years should depend on whether the organization can operate in the future under its true mandate. the member states have ample time to decide the future of the organization. i think they will see the need to repeal the arab resolutions adopted over the past few weeks. this is severe action. but an action i hope the congress will endorse. we want to preserve.  destrdy. the fabric of our system of international organizations. e of us can stand by and watch american money and talent being funneled through unesco to the plo. this is an affront to the american taxpayer and to the world community of nations.
i think this is emously important. and i hope that all senators who hear this statement will pay great attention to it. carrying just one step further the point that the senator from minnesota has made. what we are doing is giving the president the authority to write a foreign aid bill.
the points have really all been made. i think. i should like to sum them up from a little different viewpoint. i wish to stress that what we are voting on  may very well determine whether we get an authorization bill or . as the senator from minnesota has pointed out. after the failure of the last bill. those of us who were especially concerned about it in the committeegot together with the administration and worked out legislation which has received the promise of administration approval. . we are  subservient to the administration. but we are practical people here. and we k that a foreign aid bill can pass this body unless administration supporters support it. we have to have that. this bill will do it. with the bill that the committee has proposed and such amendments as we have accepted so far. we are going to get a foreign aid bill. if we get something less than that. we shall  get it. because the administration would rather have. in many ways. a continuing resolution. which we do  want. we want this bill because of its own substance. and because it contains strong provisions for congressional oversight and approval and much in the way of improvement of accounting procedures. which everybody in this country wants. and certainly this congress should insist upon getting in order to maintain its control. and. indeed. to reestablish its control over this sprawling program. i hope very much that this amendment will  succeed. the senator from new york made a point that i should like to underscore. we all support the bayh amendment as such. we do  need it in the committee bill. we do need it with senator churchs amendment. otherwise. aid to israel will be drastically cut. this just points out that what we are doing with senator churchs amendment is to say. across the board. that the president can do anything he pleases in order to cut this bill by a further $1.3 billion. roughly. which is a drastic cut. its effects have already been underscored by the senator from minnesota. i hope very much that this amendment will fail.
in addition to expressing my appreciation to the senator from minnesota. i want to express appreciation to the members of the committee who worked so hard to make this a good bill. and to the people in the state department. aid. and the defense department. who worked with us to that end. this is quite an accomplishment. . and i think it is going to cause a very great improvement in the handling of foreign aid from  on. i am thoroughly in sympathy with the objectives of the senator from hawaii
i want to thank the senator from tennessee for supporting the unesco cutoff amendment i introduced. senator brock quite rightly calls attention to a problem that has received less than adequate ice. the plight of jewish people living in arab countries. i thank the senator both for his support and for the service he is performing on behalf of oppressed people.
. i join my colleagues in the senate and. particularly. on the foreign relations committee in warm support of our former colleague. bill saxbe. in his ination to be ambassador for our country to india. i k he is going to do a good job. he has the capacity. he has the sense of compassion and interest in people that assure his success as a representative of our country to that great nation. and  the least of his assets is a most lovely and charming wife. she will add greatly to his ability to represent us in that vast land. i join my colleagues in warm support of the commission.
 certifies to the congress that such organization has adopted policies which are fully consistent with its educational. scientific -and cultural objectives and has taken concrete steps to correct its recent actions of a primarily political character. since adopting its reprehensive resolutions on israel at the unesco general conference meeting in paris. many thousands of scholars. artists. intellectuals and professionals have voiced their own independent protest and have decided to  participate in unesco under the circumstances. i ask unanimous consent that three such protests. one in the philadelphia area and aher from harvard university and one from new jersey be printed in the record to show the extent of feeling both in the united states and in other countries as well.
in a sense one could say that these are two different kinds of things. and yet it seemed to us quite appropriate to put them into one piece of legislation. the second fund. that is. the fund i just mentioned myself. the one provided in section 7. i think it is. is purely for humanitarian relief. and would be spent purely as directed and through the united nations and private agencies. it is  a government operation. the first fund. the contingency fund. is for the purpose of effecting withdrawal. for that reason. and in accomplishing that purpose. the president can spend it for anything in the world. we want him to spend it. as far as he can. for humanitarian purposes. to the extent that that kind of expenditure will facilitate withdrawal. but this will be an american effort. the purpose being withdrawal. and the president is  limited to humanitarian expenditures.
. on this point. i ask the senator from nebraska this question: there has been some suggestion that the director of the passport office has made a recommendation about what amounts to a national identity card system for all americans. i take it this is  a part of anything of that sort.
of course. the senator from new york and the rest of us would be available for that purpose i feel that this is an amendment which expresses a view which all of us share and which it is quite unnecessary to add to the resolution at this time. hing in the resolution casts any doubt upon american policy in this regard. i am certain that the senator from south carolina will agree that he is opposed to the resolution in substance. and  just because it casts any doubt upon united nations resolution 242. i am certain that the senator from idaho feels the same way about the resolution.
i would certainly agree with the senator that there is  any room for dancing around by anybody in this area. and i fully support the conduct of diplomacy and also of legislative and executive relationships on that basis.
as a matter of interest. i think that we have already closed the loophole insofar as settlement of loans made under foreign aid legislation goes and that the intent and purpose of this amendment is to spread it across the board.
. recently the news media has published stories from saudi arabia and other countries in the middle east that discrimination in the arab states is confined to discrimination against zionists.  against people of the jewish faith. these statements by the arabs were pressed hard when the united nations approved an antizionist resolution and when the senate passed an amendment to the foreign military sales bill prohibiting discrimination against americans. regardless of race. creed. color. or religion. in practice. of course. such a distinction between ideology and religion does  exist. as is demonstrated by the standard arab boycott "declaration" which is attached to all contracts with western business organizations. that "declaration" states: we hereby solemnly declare that this company is  a jewish company  controlled by jews or zionists and it has relations with israel which may contradict the following boycott principles. i ask unanimous consent that part of one such contract with saudi arabia and an article from encyclopedia britannica be printed in the record.
i do  think anything of gradual reduction of the united states that sort ought to be circulated then. contribution to the united nations is there any explanation for this. sec. 108. public law 92544 (86 stat. 1109.
. the 19th general conference of the united nations educational. scientific. and cultural organization was very important. because at issue was the future of american participation in that organization. in 1974. congress enacted the casebingham amendment on unesco which in substance said that funds should be expended or obligated to support. directly or indirectly. the united nations educational. scientific. and cultural organization until the organization adopted policies consistent with its educational. scientific. and cultural objectives and has taken concrete steps to correct its recent actions of a primarily political character. the 1974 congressional action was motivated by the outcry of thousands of scientists and scholars around the world who deplored strongly a number of political resolutions adopted by unesco. the three most controversial. sponsored by the arab states with the backing of the soviet union. were directed at israel. one excluded israel from the unesco regional working group system in which national membership is essential to participate in unesco activities. aher condemned israel for archeological studies undertaken in jerusalem. even though the scholarly evidence was that the highest standards were followed in carrying out the work. a third invited unescos director general to consider giving financial assistance to the palestine liberation organization. though it held national membership in unesco. cultural funds for israel likewise were withheld. all of these resolutions were motivated politically and twisted the truth to gain political ends. few. if any. of the claims had substance. adopting these resolutions opened the door to using the scientific community in political conflicts through the unesco organization. as a result of the congressional cutoff of funds. there has been some modest progress at the 19th general conference. but some setbacks as well. one of the three resolutions concerning israelthat on regional membershipwas repealed. though a final decision awaits still a spring meeting of unescos executive board which must approve this conference recommendation. in addition. the conference put off for further study a sovietsponsored proposal which. had it been adopted. would have sanctioned state controls on the mass media and the international press. this would be a blow for our belief in the freedom of the press and could have set back the progress made with the soviets in 1975 at helsinki which called for a greater exchange of ideas between east and west. unesco took steps backward as well. it approved aher middle east resolution. this time on educational practices in the occupied territories. without waiting for a report from its own experts. it adopted a resolution that said that scientists from taiwan ought tobe excluded from all international organizations. both private and public. this is aher outrageously political resolution which makes it difficult for scientists and scholars to support unesco. unfortunately. while the results of the unesco conference can only be characterized as a mixed bag. the state department in an effort to liquidate the casebingham amendment has sought to characterize the unesco conference as a complete success. justifying a restoration of full funding by the united states for the -organization. supports of unesco in the state department appear willing to give up any leverage the united states may have had in the organization that resulted from the congressional decision to withhold funds. i am  willing to go that far. for i believe if we give up all of our leverage further progress will be possible in unesco. even the soviets who have backed most of the resolutions we see as obiously political believe that the 19th general conference of unesco supported their goals. pravda. the soviet newspaper. in an article entitled "wests attempts to depoliticize unesco fail" reports as follows: nairobi. 1 decembera distinguishing feature of the unesco general conference session. which has ended here. was its graphically expressed anticolonial and antimperialist trend. representatives of 141 states participated in this session. held for the first time on african soil. the resolutions adopted condemn the forces of colonialism and racism and sharply criticize israels flagrant violations of the rights of the population in arab territories occupied by it. particularly in the sphere of education and culture. representatives of the socialist and developing countries used specific examples to expose imperialism as the chief mainstay of racist regimes in southern africa and of the israeli zionists. this session confirmed the organizations adherence to the ideals of the struggle for peace and the peoples freedom. attempts by western countries to achieve the "depoliticization" of unesco and reduce its activities exclusively to technical aspects of problems of education. science and culture. failed. unesco has always been and will remain a political organization. amadoumokhtar mbow. its director general. declared. the issue this congress will face is whether to accept the state departments judgment that all is -well and approve payment of all back dues to unesco. or. in the alternative. to approve limited funds for unesco which will signal the member states that unescos policies are as yet  fully consistent with its educational. scientific. and cultural objectives and that further steps remain to be taken to right the situation. i believe we should do the minimum in giving funds to unesco and pay only our 1975 back dues which will retain u.s. voting rights in the organization. the u.s. national academy of science stated recently thatthe search for kledge and understanding of the physical universe and of living things that inhabit it should be conducted under conditions of intellectual freedom. without religious. political. or ideological restriction. unesco has a way to go to live up to this standard. on which we base our support of that organization.
i am in favor of the resolution.  carter. the soviets can expect the american people and congress to be forthcoming on trade credits and other matters unless moscow is more forthcoming in dealing with human lives. this is  interference in russian internal affairs. it is a statement of how americans feel. when it comes to trade credits and concessions and the sharing of our techogy. we are entitled to set our priorities and to make our value judgments as to which countries should share in our resources. this is  to single out the soviet union. as the soviets should be well aware. human rights amendments were attached to the foreign aid bill last year. our concern abroad. it is deep and it will be lasting.
it is hard for me to debate this. it makes me sound like i do  like the appropriations committee. i love it. i am the ranking republican on that committee and second ranking member. i have served on it more years than many in congress. i have great respect for it. for its traditions and responsibility and for the need for it. but i do  think that we should say. because we have set this particular bit of machinery up.. that we can disable the government of the united states from making a commitment which the world has the rightlegal right.  just moral rightto depend upon. . international agreements. agreements of sovereigns. are always subject to the sovereigns saying. " i will  do it." we are getting away from that a bit  with the world bank machinery. and so forth. and other indirect ways besides bringing a suit to enforce a right against a sovereign power. but i do object to the idea we are engaging in something that is fishy here.
. after many years of concern about the objectives and effectiveness of our bilateral aid programs. i believe that we are back on course and on target. the unanimous vote of the foreign relations committee in reporting this bill is a reflection of the growing consensus about effectiveness and importance of our aid effort. the funds authorized in this bill are an important investment in our own future and i urge my colleagues to support its passage.
 certified the organization: first. has adopted policies which are fully consistent with its education. scientific. and cultural objectives. and second. has taken concrete steps to correct its recent actions of a primarily political character. the congressional action was in response to the passage by the unesco general conference of three resolutions which unjustifiably condemned israel and. in the instance of one resolution. even sought to bar her participation in the unesco european regional grouping. that particular problem was dealt with at the unesco general conference held in nairobi last ember. but the politicization of unesco continues. action was taken on the other two resolutions. and meanwhile new disputes cropped up. one over control of the international media and aher aimed at barring taiwanese scholars from participating in unesco activities. it was hoped that some additional steps might be taken to improve the situation during the recently held unesco executive board meeting in paris. but from the reports i have received of the meeting. it appears that little progress was made. indeed. i was greatly concerned to learn that instead of letting lie the issue of taiwanese participation in unescorelated organizations. the matter was brought up in a way which revived the issue. i also was concerned to learn that our u.s. official representatives to the paris conference did  make clear in their speeches why congress was reluctant to appropriate funds for unesco. subsequently. i was advised through the state department that a tactical decision had been made in advance to raise the matter in informal discussions. "in the corridors." despite the efforts by the state department to win approval of funds for unesco. i had  been advised of this decision in advance. i raise it  only because i am concerned about the lack of real consultation but because i believe it is important that the congressional views should have been made part of the record of the proceedings. for the delegates and historians who did  happen to be in the right corridor at the right time. therefore. i would like to take this opportunity to make it clear that there is still strong concern in congress that unesco  be used as a forum for blatant political purposes. there is still a strong feeling that more should be done to alleviate the antiisraeli resolutions. solve the media dispute. end the barring of private citizens from unesco activities. because of dislike for their government. and halt any future efforts to politicize unesco. there will be aher unesco executive board meeting in september. i hope that the supporters of unesco do  miss the opportunity to help unesco in the words of the 1975 casebingham amendment. take concrete steps to correct its actions "of a primarily political character." the state department. the unesco administration. and the executive board should fully understand that the patience of congress is  unlimited. i hope that the next time administration officials come to congress and seek unesco funds. they will be able to point to actual positive accomplishments in unesco.
. this is part of what i was referring to when i earlier said the soviet union had twisted words and iged agreements. if the soviet officials distort meanings in such a manner to justify violations of agreements affecting their own people. how can we rely upon them to live up to agreements with other nations. including our own. these events do  take place in a vacuum without affecting the atmosphere on trade and other matters:  is our concern about human rights an isolated matter. confined only to the soviet union. the actions by the executive branch and congress on foreign aid provide ample evidence that our concern over human rights encompasses other nations as well. i also would like to make it clear that senate resolution 198 is  concerned only with the two soviet citizens specifically mentioned in itmr. scharansky and professor orlov. as the resolution states in the final paragraoh: it is the sense of the senate that the united states representatives to the helsinki
 carter. and even more important. some silences which have given cause for concern in that respect. of course there are many factors in shaping our foreign policy and dealing with individual nations. i. for one. am  prepared to claim that human rights in every case is the determining factor in relations with every countrythere are limits to what we can do as a practical matter. however. i believe that through the efforts of congress during the last session and the current one. and the welcome statements by the new administration. especially in its early days. human rights concerns have been given a higher priority in shaping our foreign policy. on october 4. the belgrade conference will resume. continue the task of reviewing and following up the 1975 helsinki accords in which 35 nations of east and west europe and th america pledged themselves to a series of guidelines for the protection of human rights. therefore. i believe it is very important that this government reaffirm its commitment to human rights. the confirmation of ambassador goldberg is a welcome move in this directiion. our concern over human rights is  confined to countries of one form of government or aher. it is addressed to dictatorships of all stripes. therefore i questioned the ination of a new ambassador to chile at this particular time. the move might be seen as a sign that the more traditional approach of the foreign service bureaucracy is still at work. i am  concerned about the qualifications of the man selected for the job. george landau. a career officer of considerable experience. therefore i decided  to oppose the ination. but i do feel it is necessary to voice my concern over the timing. the improvements in the human rights situation in chile are  all that perceptible. true. the old secret police technically has been abolished but apparently this is primarily a change in name. some political prisoners have been released. but other persons have been arrested. it is most unfortunate that the confirmation of mr. landau came as friends of orlando letelier. a former cabinet minister. marked the murder a year ago of the former cabinet minister and an american associate. ronni moffitt. i hope this confirmation is  taken as a sign of a relaxation of u.s. concerns over human rights. as far as this senator is concerned. it should  be. i trust that mr. landau. who handled himself very well before the foreign relations committee yesterday. presses for the human rights both in individual cases and in the overall situation. in chile. as in dealing with the soviet union. we may  be able to obtain overnight improvements. but it is important to keep up the effort.
. many times and on many bills in the future. senator humphreys presence will be deeply missed. today. the sense of loss is particularly deep. because this is a day senator humphrey really wanted to live forto see the introduction of his legislation to bring up to date and improve our foreign aid developmental policy and machinery. the international development cooperation act of 1978. which we are introducing today is one of senator humphreys major unfinished projects. our dear friend was a man who inspired scores of initiatives and legislative ideas. and this bill was his last major legislative initiativean initiative he wanted to pursue even though he knew his time was slipping away. it is so typical of the man that in his last days he concerned himself  only with his family and personal friends but also efforts to find better ways of helping starving and poor people around the world. but perhaps that should  be surprising to us. for hubert was a man who felt a sense of family with the people of mali as well as minnesota. of warangal as well as waverly. thus it is partly with a sense of carrying out senator humphreys wishes and in tribute to him that senator sparkman. the chairman of the senate foreign relations committee. and i are joining in introducing the international development cooperation act of 1978. senator sparkman and i have discussed the matter and concluded that the bill should be introduced at this time to allow the earliest possible consideration by interested parties. including our colleagues who might like to join as cosponsors. i appreciate. especially in this connection. the miity leaders statement about that and his willingness to forgo an objection about this procedure. which he is  generally in favor of.
 carter more than a year ago to reorganize and to improve the federal governments machinery. i urge the executive branch to seize this opportunityto work with us to shape and improve this billto develop a statute that will improve the policies and implementation of our foreign aid program.
. this may be so. but it also has the earmarks of a potentially selffulfilling prophesy. if zambia and the neighboring states want to follow that route. of course they can do so. but--and i ask this as one who has sympathized with the aspirations of african nationalism. and supported foreign assistance to those countriesis it in their real and long range interest to do so. it is the africans themselves who will be hurt the most if what started as an effort to end white miity government turns into an escalating power struggle and perhaps civil war between various factions. and it is the africans in neighboring countries who may also suffer if the conflict widens.  only through border strikes but the exploitation of the situation by the russians and cubans for their own purposes.  only are their countries in danger of further damage from being drawn into a possible whirlpool of steppedup fighting. but their own ecoic development is likely to be hindered by the impact on foreign assistance. investment and education and training programs. there are other potential consequencesthe rejection can help but tend to harden attitudes among those who have been more directly involved in the conflict on the other side. moreover. i think a word should be said about the consequences on the attitudes of those outside. in the united states and in congress. and i say this in all friendship. there is. i believe. a great deal of sympathy for those who feel that the white miity rule has been unjust and should be replaced with majority rule. the salisbury agreement. as imperfect as it may be in the eyes of some. is an important part of this process. it could turn out to be the key. a continued rejection of an agreement worked out by black rhodesian leaders who by most accounts represent a majority of the black rhodesians is unlikely to gain sympathy for the rejectionists. it will be hard for many americans and members of congress to accept the idea that an agreement worked out in peaceful negotiations should be abruptly dismissed out of hand. for the united nations to be used in this process can only add to the further erosion of the united nations itself. the american and british governments. and perhaps others. are trying to bring the various factions together this week in aher effort to bridge some of the gaps. this process should be encouraged. and i hope that the rejectors will take an opportunity coolly to reassess the situation. this could be the last chance to achieve peacefully. an orderly transition to genuine majority rule. with the enduring protection of human rightsthe creation of a zimbabwe which could be  a ruined country. but a revitalized nation.0
. this amendment speaks for itself. it is very similar to a resolution. senate concurrent resolution 70. which we introduced several months ago in regard to our position in the rhodesian conflict. its emphasis is upon our dual objective of and support for the efforts to bring about a peaceful settlement of the rhodesian conflict. one which contains a ceasefire and a peaceful and orderly transfer to genuine majority rule with the enduring protection of miity rights. it also is an appeal to those directly and indirectly involved in the rhodesian conflict to take a cool and considered look at the agreement signed in salisbury by three black rhodesian leaders and the smith government. we express opposition to the efforts. such as those at the united nations earlier this year. to reject the agreement out of hand. we also are expressing our backing for the efforts by the american. british and other governments to encourage all sides to work out their differences through negotiations and  continued fighting. the agreement signed in salisbury was. in my view. a significant and welcome step in the long struggle toward free elections and majority rule. in this amendment. we are  embracing the salisbury agreementthis is  the time or place to try to reach a consensus on that. and that is  our intention today. but what we can say. and are saying in this. is that the agreement deserves serious and impartial consideration and that we are concerned about the consequences of outright rejection. the consequences could have an impact beyond the settling of the rhodesian conflictaffecting  only rhodesia but the neighboring countries. possibly the russians and cubans. and also attitudes in the united states and congress toward the united nations and those who would automatically reject the settlement. leaders and supporters of the patriotic front have sharply and quickly denced the salisbury agreement and predicted it will only lead to renewed fighting. there also have been suggestions that they might bring in cubans and russians. if zambia and the neighboring states want to allow the continued buildup of guerrilla forces and follow that route. of course they can do so. but--and i ask this as one who has sympathized with the aspirations of african nationalism and supported foreign assistance to those countries--is it in their real and longrange interest to do so. it is the africans themselves who will be hurt the most if what started as an effort to end white miity government turns into an escalating power struggle and perhaps civil war between various factions. and it is the africans in neighboring countries who may also suffer if the conflict widens.  only through border strikes but the exploitation of the situation by the russians and cubans for their own purposes.  only are their countries in danger of further damage from being drawn into a possible whirlpool of steppedup fighting. but their own ecoic development is likely to be hindered by the impact on foreign assistance. investment. and education and training drograms. there is. i believe. a great deal of sympathy for those who feel that the white miity rule has been unjust and should be replaced with majority rule. the salisbury agreement. imperfect as it may be in the eyes of some. is an important part of this process. it could turn out to be the key. a continued rejection of an agreement worked out by black rhodesian leaders who by most accounts represent a majority of the black rhodesians is unlikely to get sympathy for the rejectionists. it will be hard for many americans and members of congress to accept the idea that an agreement worked out in peaceful negotiations should be abruptly dismissed out of hand. for the united nations to be used in this process can only add to the further erosion of the united nations itself. the american and british governments. and perhaps others. are trying to bring the various factions together to bridge some of the gaps. this process should be encouraged. and i hope that the rejectors will take an opportunity to coolly reassess the situation. this could be the last chance to peacefully achieve an orderly transition to genuine majority rule. with the enduring protection of human rightsthe creation of a zimbabwe which could be a revitalized and  ruined country. i understand that the manager of the bill has objection to it. i k of e myself. i reserve the remainder of my time.
. i join my colleagues in expressing unhappiness at the statement made by our ambassador to the united nations. it presents to the world an utterly false and unfair picture of the united states to equated individual cases of injustice and even of racism in our country with the systematic governmental persecutions by the soviet state which this senate has so strongly condemned. the distinction is clear and ambassador young ought  to confuse it by loosely using the term "political prisoners" and suggesting that it applies equally in over two countries. i hope he will quickly and firmly correct the unfortunate impression he has created.
. withstanding the assistance furnished to any country hereunder. shall initiate proceedings. unless such proceedings have theretofore already been instituted. bringing to the attention of the security council or the general assembly of the united nations. any situation which threatens the territorial integrity or political independence of any country assisted hereunder and makes necessary the maintenance of fully mobilized military forces by such country." secretary marshall said in his magnificent definition of democracy at the recent council of foreign ministers in moscow: to us a society is  free if lawabiding citizens live in fear of being denied the right to work. or deprived of life. liberty. and the pursuit of happiness. this definition is equally applicable to nations. we can permanently guarantee the integrity and independence of individual nations by the aid of our money and our men on a unilateral basis. we must be ready to accept for ourselves the role of international law rather than the role of international force if we wish it to be the guide for others. too. the united nations has already labored effectively in the field of relieving externally induced pressures on independent nations. we must fortify it in that work. i look forward to further development in our acceptance of the judgments arrived at collectively in the united nations by representatives of all the united nations. at first in limited spheres. such as territorial boundaries. administration of occupied territories. disposition of enemy territories and assets. and disposition of mandates. and later in wider fields. the administration of colonies. international trade. access to the worlds raw materials. international transportation and communications. international regulation of patents and copyrights and of cartels. in summary. therefore. i urge the acceptance of the policy of this bill as a necessary and practical means for preventing the forced imposition by a miity upon the majority of a way of life the majority does  want in two threatened countries due to the pressure of ecoic conditionsand the resultant closing off of the near and middle east. but i urge coupling this action with simultaneous action to strengthen the only agency which promises to give us a century of peace in our time. the united nationsand a simultaneous dedication by us to the human rights and fundamental freedoms within the countries we assist which are the very reasons for our own national existence.
 shall take the action provided by the charter of the united nations in cases where a situation exists likely to endanger the maintenance of international peace and security. and this is exactly such a situation. the gentlewomans amendment proposes that we shall wait a year. giving the security council an opportunity to decide this issue before we do anything. obviously. if we wait until that time. we will be defeating the purpose of this particular legislation.
i thank the gentleman. may i point out that there is a doctrine in this legislation. the legislation itself. insofar as greece and turkey are concerned. it has been clearly shown. is a stopgap. it is designed to stop a situation which it is said can be controlled in any other way. but the doctrine that is in this bill is the vandenberg doctrine. what is that doctrine. it is that while we keep the situation in the world from deteriorating further we at the same time. though we are the greatest and most powerful nation on earth. subject ourselves to the judgments of the united nations. we demonstrate in this way our faith in the united nations and our will to make it the strongest force for peace among the nations. the league of nations was wrecked because powerful nation would accept as binding upon itself the judgments of the league. we must  repeat that mistake. the vandenberg amendment is a condition subsequent. in other words. it says that when the united nations asks us to stop assisting any country because it is unnecessary or undesirable we will do so. but this amendment is a condition prec/.dent. because we say at the same time that we go in and do something which we have to do. which there is one else to do. we invite you. the united nations. to consider our action. the situation which brought it about. and what can be done to deal with that situation. that is the purpose of my amendment. and i believe it is part and parcel with the vandenberg doctrine. may i call the attention of the committee to the provisions of the united charter itself which envisage this very situation. article 2. paragraphs 3 and 4 of the united nations charter. read as follows: 3. all members shall settle their international disputes by peaceful means in such a manner that international peace and security. and justice. are  endangered. 4. all members shall refrain in their international relations from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any state. or in any other manner inconsistent with the purposes of the united nations.
there are two difficulties in the argument just made. one is that the president of the united states came here and invoked our aid for turkey specifically on the ground that turkey was being submitted to such external pressures as to imperil her integrity and political independence. external pressures. as i said before in my argument. can be so subtle that they can be detected only by the united states and  by the united nations. the question is also raised as to whether the united nations could act. the united nations charter itself settles that question. it draws a clear distinction between disputes to which the gentleman referred and situations. article 34 states: the security council may investigate any dispute or any situation which might lead to international friction or give rise to a dispute. in order to determine whether the continuance of the dispute or situation is likely to endanger the maintenance of international peace and security. may i also call the gentlemans attention to the fact that the general assembly may consider such a matter. for article 10 states: the general assembly may discuss any questions or any matters within the scope of the present charter or relating to the powers and functions of any. organs provided for in the present charter. also article 11. paragraph 2. states: the general assembly may discuss any questions relating to the maintenance ofinternational peace and security brought before it by any member of the united nations. one further very important pointin the general assembly there is veto power. if the united states proceeds in the general assembly. the veto power of any great power raises difficulty.
. i would like to deal with the points that the gentleman has raised. we must remeiaber that u. s. s. r. has demanded from turkey the right to fortify the dardanelles jointly with turkey. there are constant radio broadcasts into turkey from the u. s. s. r. keeping turkey on the anxious seat in this war of nerves. those are the very reasons we are going to render assistance. the united nations charter in the articles i read enables the united states to proceed before the general assembly if it does  want to go before the security council on these issues. may i alsopoint out that the vandenberg amendment waives any effect of the veto in the security council on the action -of the united nations regarding this assistance program.
. it would appear to me that the founders of the united nations would favor very much the proposition that the united nations should on the application of the united states. as a most devoted follower of the united nations. act on this proposal. everything that has been said here indicates that there is external pressure on turkey. and that is the only reason we are assisting. it can be ecoic difficulty in turkey. as the gentlewoman from california so eloquently explained. the only reason we are going forward with this bill at all as to turkey is on account of external pressure on her. if that is the reason and if the pressures are  so subtle that we can detect them. then they are  so subtle that the united nations can fail to detect them.
. the people of the united states and the people of the world must be appalled at the display of force  being employed in java against the colonial peoples there and which is called police action. the united nations charter in chapter xi deals with the relationships between the colonial powers and their selfgoverning peoples. it certainly seems that the netherlands should have explored fully the possibilities of using the united nations machinery to correct the situation in which it found itself. before resorting to military action. the least that could be done  is that the dutch nation should explain to the people of the united states and to the people of the world exactly why the use of force was required. the understanding of the peoples of the world should be clear. that the netherlands. itself a small nation just relieved from the distress of occupation. is  willingly bypassing its first real opportunity to proceed under the united nations charter wlth respect to a selfgoverning territory.
. in view of the fact that we are the host nation to the united nations it is important that we protect the use of their seal and name against unauthorized commercial exploitation. by resolution of the united nations -general assembly the member nations were requested to afford this protection. and as the nation in which the united nations headquarters is located this is especially applicable to us. the bill protects valid trademarks or copyrights which have been obtained using the name "united nations." but does  permit renewals. other users of the name or insignia before the united nations charter came into effect have a year in which to bring themselves into conformity with this bill when enacted into law. trademarks using the name have been registered for such things as womens apparel. textiles. and paper stationery. all other commercial exploitation of the emblem. name. or seal of the united nations. aside from what i have specified. without permission of the secretarygeneral of the united nations is prohibited by this bill.
the penalty is as for a misdemea against any individual corporation. partnership. and so forth who use the united nations name. emblem. or seal commercially without permission of the united nations itself or as permitted by this bill.
.  that the conscience of the world. organized in the united nations. has decreed the partition of palestine. we have a right to expect britain to support the united nations by making an orderly turer of palestine to the partition commission appointed by the general assembly. her refusal will lead to aher munich. british weakness in foreign affairs will pay off in palestine as it paid off at munichin further deterioration of her position in the world. if britain persists in an obstinate course. she will alienate the united nations which cast a decisive vote for partition. she will further alienate palestines jews. and she will earn arab hatred friendshipbecause she is weak. this is a day when britain needs all her friends. a day when she must realize that her future lies more and more with the united nations. with whose success she is likely. indeed. to be indissolubly linked. britain should be seeking to introduce democracy and wellbeing for the people of the middle east. and should  play the old imperialist game. the great democratic tradition of britain could inspire and impress the whole middle east at this time if she would proceed in the spirit  of rancor. but of world statesmanship. the tommiesthe people of britainfraternizing with the people of tel aviv will prove to be much smarter than the british foreign office.
is it  a fact that the gentlemans whole argument is premised on the fact that the united nations or someone else will ask the united states to send troops into palestine. if that be the fact. is it  true also that one as yet has asked the united states or anybody else to send troops into palestine and that the jewish people of palestine show every willingness to fight and die themselves for what they believe in.
. since the decision of the united nations on the palestine question on ember 29. 1947. approved by 33 of those members of the united nations voting33 for partition. 13 opposed. 10 abstentionsthere has been a great outcry among those opposed to this decision. making three principal objections: first. that it might put russian troops on the mediterranean. second. that it may endanger the peace. and. third. that it may interfere with the flow of oil to aid the european recovery program. it has also been argued that the united states used undue pressure on other nations to vote for partition. but when it is ed that cuba and greece. two states largely dependent on the united states for their ecoic life voted against partition. this charge would  appear to be tenable.
the fact is that i recollect. in our munich consulate an important part of all visas granted were these to german fianc~es. i was told that regular visas were being granted to these german flanc~es and that others who were to get visas were being held up because the work of the consulate was so taken up with granting these general visas to these german girls.
. the people of the united states are shocked by the administrations iginious desertion of the united nations and they will conclude that it presages the jettisoning of the united nations and our hopes for peace through the alliance of nations in the united nationswith or without the soviets and their satellites. the administration guilty of this abandonment of the principles of morality and justiceeven greater than its iniquity on palestinewill be. i am confident. repudiated by the american people at their first opportunity.
. i rise in respect to this amendment much more in sadness than in the heat of contention. i think we are making a grave mistake. the committee proposes to accept this amendment. though it is a gratuitous mention of spain. for by the section of the bill under consideration. section 103 (a). "any other country * * * wholly or partly in europe" provided it adheres to and so long as it adheres to the european recovery program. may be a participating country. i think the adoption of this amendment is a grave mistake. for three reasons: first. we have ambassador in spain. we have there only a charge daffaires. we have ambassador in madrid. as we are complying with a resolution of the un general assembly. adopted february 9. 1946. recommending to the members of the un the withdrawal of their ambassadors from spain. second. the 16 european nations whom we are seeking to aid in this program did  invite spain to participate in their deliberations. hence. we are making a mockery of selfhelp and mutual cooperation by inviting a nation they did  invite. finally. we show a very deep lack of understanding of the friends of democracy in france and italy. who will have hurled against them  by every communist agitator. the charge that we are allying ourselves with a dictatorship in spain. for europeans have long memories. they remember that spain was considered a fighting partner of the axis throughout the war. and that blitzkrieg was first tried out by hitler and mussolini in spain in aid of the present government. hence. i say it is much more in sadness than in controversy that i speak against this amendment.
. on friday of this week. the united nations general assembly will meet in special~session at the request of the united states to reconsider its resolution adopted ember 29. 1947. for the solution of the palestine problem on the basis of partition with ecoic union.  only the policy. but the prestige of the united states will be on trial. for it was united states leadership in the general assembly which had a grbat deal to do with bringing about the partition resolution.  the united states proposes to advocate a -transitional trusteeship to which the administration has constantly referred since its reversal on partition as the new solution. this solution. we are told. is -premised upon a truce between arabs and jews in the palestine fighting. but it is doubtful that this truce can be realized. we might indeed find. therefore. yet aher change of administration .1948 policy as sudden and capricious as the change from partition when the general assembly meets.
. at the request of the chairman of the house committee on foreign affairs. i have today introduced a bill to authorize the loan of $65.000.000 to the united nations for the construction of a permanent headquarters on the site contributed by the city of new york and john d. rockefeller. jr.. along the east river in the borough of manhattan. the loan is repayable in annual installments commencing with june 1. 1951. over a period of 32 years. the average installments being $2.500.00 a year. this loan will become the obligation of the members of the united nations througt their responsibility to meet the regular budget of the united nations of which the annual installments will become a part. the bill recalls that the congress of the united states by house concurrent resolution 75. adopted in december 1945. invited the united nations to settle here. and that largely inspired by our leadership the united nations was conceived of as the necessary postwar machinery for peace. the occasion of the introduction of this bill properly raises two major policy questions: do we want the united nations. do we want it in the united states. it is entirely appropriate that the legislation should be made a vehicle for the discussion of these two questions. assuming that they are answered in the affirmative. there should be objection to the bill itself which provides for a suitable permanent home of the united nations in the worlds greatest port where. by democratic expression of the members of the united nations themselves. its headquarters have been located. it deals also with intolerable conditions of inadequacy of space which i found to exist by personal inspection of uns temporary headquarters at lake success. for myself. i want the un and i want it here. all of us in considering the worlds machinery for peace always make the comparison with the league of nations which failed to preserve the peace. but the united states did  belong to the league. it does belong to the un. the united nations. mankinds best hope for peace. should  be interred before it has a chance to live.. our people believe the un to be our best hope for peace. and we must make it good or confess our inability to lead the world in the way in which our prestige. our resources. and the character of our people require. it is my hope that this bill could be made the occasion for considering how best to implement the un and to make it more effective. the situation which the united nations has been unable to resolve in palestine and greece. the frustration which it has encountered in korea. trieste. indonesia. and spain. as well as its inability to deal with the problem of respect for treaty obligations in the soviet satellite countries and in occupied germany make certain shortcomings all the more apparent. we may recall at this time that it was* the united states which itself insisted on the veto. there is  considerable sentiment in the united states for removing the veto power of the permanent members of the securtiy council. in order to bring about the creation of an adequate security force so that the un may  be impotent to enforce its determinations. and so that the international control of atomic weapons should be made possible. there is sentiment also for giving up the veto power when it comes to action to punish aggressors. but whether our people want as yet to give other powers the ability to commit them to war is an open question. there are some matters in our presently complex world in which national may have to give way to international sovereignty. there seems to be a disposition in the united states to make a start along these lines. we should  permit this start to be thwarted by the veto power in the un charter. this sentiment may lead to consideration of international regulation free of the veto. of international communications. international aspects of health and agriculture. and international law. the subject bill may afford an opportunity to crystallize ways and means by which the gradually maturing concept of international government in certain spheres may be effectively initiated.
. the eyes of the world this week will be focused on great britain. will great britain take counsel of statesmanship or will great britain take counsel of the chagrin and resentment of her bevins and cause the arab legion of the kingdom of transiordan. trained. led. financed. and organized by great britain. to administer the final "stab in the back" to the jews in palestine and to the united nations. the whole world this week will watch to see the result. i believeand i think i have a right to believethat the people of great britain. like the people of the united states. feel that the united nations is mankinds last best hope for peace. the united nations needs to be supported.  undermined. in the palestine situation. great britain can show that she means what she says about supporting and strengthening the united nations . heretofore it has been much too easy to slough over britains derelictions in  cooperating with respect to palestine with the united nations palestine commission. we have been asked to overlook her callous supply of arms to the arab states. openly backing the arab invaders in palestine. due to claimed "treaty arrangements." while our arms embargo was applied vigorously to the jewish defense forces. we have been asked to overlook allegations of damaging restrictions and discriminations by british forces respecting these jewish forces. but  the issue is clear. in  staying the hands of the organized arab armies. which we  see to mean the arab legion of transjordan. led. financed. organized. and directed by great britain. in a plan to invade palestine. she will show her real intentions. i sincerely hope that even at this late date great britain will be true to her tradition of justice and will cooperate with the united nations. the world this week will see what it shall see. i append hereto an editorial on this subject from todays washington post:
. i hope that  statesmanship will replace vindictiveness or resentment. i hope that  pacification may come to the middle east. through recognition by the nations of the world of what existsthe fact that the jews have earned their state through the only way it seems that independence can be earned. by blood and sweat and tearsand that they may be permitted to inhabit the territory within the borders of their state. as determined by the united nations general assembly. in peace. i believe that  the nations of the world in the united nations should see that the jewish state enjoys peace. through protecting it against the aggression of the neighboring arab states by the means which the united nations charter  fully affords. i trust that the united states will  recognize what exists and will cease its efforts to reverse or betray the fate that has enabled the jews of palestine to realize nationhood and will recognize the jewish state. giving it full international rights. and be among the first to do so.
 and the state department should follow an american policy of justice.  an invalidated british policy of appeasement and intrigue. by insisting on respect for israels independence and integrity as the only way to attain a real jewish national home. i appeal to. the innate decency and the love of liberty and justice of the british people to hold their government in linethey are ed for their forebearance. here is a chance to show it. the words of their ambassador here. sir oliver franks. offering cooperation. are a happy augury. the united nations is on the threshold of its greatest acievement if it can settle the palestine conflict. let the angloamerican peoples act jointly to do it .
. the resolution before the house today is an effort to clothe those words with actions and to redeem the prestige and authority of the united states. especially with reference to the invitation that was extended to the united nations by giving it a suitable home here. i invite any member of the congress to go out to the united nations headquarters at lake success and see the "salt mine" in which they workmost of the staff. especially the personnel in the lower echeloni. work in an abandoned factory building without natural light or air for most of the personnel. then. to say whether or  we are acting as host to the worlds great hope for peace or suitably accommodating the assemblage of nations which by our invitation is located in the united states. as to the merits of the proposalfirst. the city of new york and the state of new york and a private citizen of the united states have undertaken this project together. the site. worth $8.500.000. has been donated. the city and state of new york have put up over $13.000.000 for site improvements and similar itemsthat is probably going up to $20.000.000 before this project is completedand the united states here is asked to loani emphasize thatloan $65.000.000. if it does . we will have in new york city what i have called before and i call again "a black hole of calcutta." on which the site has .been completely excavated and which is waiting for something to be put on it. and that something will be the united nations buildings to be financed by this loan. as to the merits of the loan itself. the loan will be repaid out of the regular budget of the united nations. i do  think that has been made clear. the united states contributes  most of the money but only about 40 percent to that budget. the reason for the loan having been made interest free is as a straight quid pro quo on a business basis. income from the expenditures in the united states of the united nations delegations and others who come here to the united nations is estimated at about $20.500.000 a year. if the question had been: "shall the united nations headquarters be paid for outright by a special levy on the united nations." would it  have been logical to suppose that the united states would have been asked for a greater proportion of the amount than is shown by its contribution to the mal administrative budget of the united nations. let us say the united states would have been asked for at least 60 percent. and with some justice. instead of paying more than our share of the administrative budget then. into a special building fund. we are making an interestfree loan. as to the value of the property itself. the foreign affairs committee was very careful on that point and has two appraisals of the property as proposed to be completed. one of these is by the coordinator of construction of new york city. hon. robert moses. who has an enviable reputation. he values the project. on the most conservative estimate. as being worth from 50 to 60 million dollars.  satisfied with that alone. we also got an appraisal from the head of a leading private real estate firm in new york city. mr. charles f. es. he says: furthermore. at this time it is my opinion that all realestate experts will agree that if anything should happen in the future and the government finds that it owns the property through foreclosure of the $65.000.000 loan. the loan could be salvaged and probably without loss to the government. theloan agreement. which the house is called upon to approve. and the pending bill protect the united states by making this as nearly as may be a first mortgage. if the united nations ceases to exist. for any reason. the land and the buildings become the property of the united states. so it is a business matter. it is a loan and as well and intelligently secured as practicable. one final point: would it  be aalous for us. as has been said by the gentleman from michigan. to be spending billions of dollars for armament. and then to bridle at $65.000.000. a loan with adequate security. which we are asked to make in the cause of peace. and in the cause of enabling the institution for peace to have a haven in the one place in the world where we k it will be safe. in the united states. are we  a generous egh host to extend to the united nations organization which is hbre in response to our own invitation in which the hope for peace of hundreds of millions of people is wrapped up. just that degree of hospitality.
. i join with a distinguished member of britains house of commons in concern over the consequences of the british governments palestine policy. and urge the british people  to be "bevinized" in the current britishisraeli crisis. in other words.  to let hurt feelings over loss of the palestine mandate. and attendant trying events. prevail over the best interests of great britain and the world in attaining a secure and peaceful middle east. anthony eden. in a speech yesterday. asked why the rap carried out reconnaissance over an israeliegyptian battle area. and what useful purpose it could serve. i am asking the same and other questions of our state department in a resolution of inquiry which i am introducing.  intended. in any sense. as critical of our state department. which has kept to an evenhanded course in this crisis. but only intended to adduce for all our people a clear exposition of the facts. there have been a number of truce resolutions by the united nations security council since july of this year. and regardless of conflicting claims on violation of the truces. it is a fact that israel and egypt had already agreed to sit down with the united nations mediator to negotiate an armistice. when british air forces appeared over an israeliegyptian bdttle area and brought on the latest crisis. in this way the british government by its action gave the impression of putting itself athwart the hopes for peace. let us hope that egypt and israel will proceed. etheless. to consummate their armistice and to seek to attain a general peace in the middle east.
. i favor this resolution condemning the endeavor by terror to suppress religious freedom in hungary. this threat to religious liberty affects equally people of all faiths everywhere. by this resolution the democratic world will be enabled to make clear to the communist world the critical importance which it attaches to the trials of archbishop stepinac and cardinal mindszenty. men who love freedom everywhere will applaud this act by this house. i append hereto house resolution 65 which i offered to the same effect as the resolution  being adopted and i am satisfied that the resolution  being adopted accomplishes the same result. house resolution 65 whereas the democratic world and people everywhere who believe in justice have been profoundly shocked by the summary arrest and imprisonment of his eminence josef cardinal mindszenty. roman catholic primate of hungary. and by his being held incommunicado since december 28. 1948. and whereas the said arrest and confinement constitute persecution on account of political and religious bias and violate the declaration of the united nations charter of "respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms" (article i of the charter of the united nations): . therefore. be it resolved. that it is the sense of the congress that the arrest and imprisonment of the roman catholic primate of hungary. his eminence josef cardinal mindszenty. and his continued confinement incommunicado. amount to deliberate persecution on account of conscience and faith and violate a fundamental freedom guaranteed by the united nations charter and by the requirements of justice. it is further the sense of the congress that the issues raised by such violations due to the actions of the government of hungary should be submitted by the united states to the united nations at the next meeting of the general assembly of the united nations for appropriate action.
. certainly all of us who are interested in democracy.  only in the united states. but in the world. would agree that the provisions of this bill affecting asia and the pacific at last let us deal realistically with discrimination on a global basis instead of just discrimination within the united states.  being contested in the united states senate. the enactment of this fundamental aspect of the bill is essential to our position in world affairs. and to the integrity of our foreign policy. i am troubled. however. about those provisions of this bill which appear to be extraneous to its basic purpose. and which deal with colonies. it seems to me that colonies could very well have been left just exactly as they are while this problem dealing with the question of asia and the pacific triangle was dealt with. i hope the committee will see fit in the course of the debate. and before the final vote. to clarify what seems to me to be an imperfection in the bill.
 of the united states. and greater authority exists in our government on foreign affairs. and the secretary of state of the united states have protested to the dutch government against these very activities with respect to their failure to comply with the resolution of the united nations security council. and. second. we are  being asked to make an independent finding of fact in connection with the administration of this amendment. we are asked only to take the solemn determination of the security council of the united nations. of which the united states is a member. and in connection with which determination thc united states has the absolute right to veto. so that if the united states does  agree with the resolution of the united nations security council it could veto that resolution. the argument will also be made with respect to this resolution that it is unnecessary because if the united nations should impose sanctions. then the united states by virtue of its adherence to the united nations charter itself. must carry out those sanctions and amendment to this law is necessary to bring that about. certainly amendment to this law is necessary to bring about the carrying out by the united states of sanctions imposed by the united nations. but such sanctions can be imposed unless the security council votes.  a resolution like the one we are discussing here with respect to indonesia. but specifically votes ecoic or other sanctions. before it can vote those sanctions any great power. and that includes the soviet union. can veto. so that if the resolution for sanctions is vetoed in the united nations security couneil there is hing that the united states has to carry out under the terms of the charter. the dutch. who are going to get under this particular legislation some $355.000.000. are  obeying the united nations security council and we are told that the united states has  the power to do anything about it under circumstances where it is proposed to actually deliver this vast sum of aid to the netherlands government. it is a fact that the united states as a measure of protest has already cut off aid to the netherlands east indies. but what has that done. what has been done is to deprive the east indians themselves of the benefit of some assistance under the european recovery program. in addition some twothirds of our aid had already proceeded to indonesia before it was actually cut off by order of the administrator following the resolution of the united nations security council. there is also a possibility that this kind of amendment and this particular situation will  apply alone to the netherlands. but may apply to other nations. there are other great colonial powers in the european recovery program: belgium. great britain. and france. to be specific. all the peoples of asia are thinking  in terms of their own freedom. and their own independence. the erp is a great program for ecoic recoveryto do what. to promote freedom. and all i am asking in this amendment is that as a declaration of policy we will say that we intend to see that freedom is promoted .  by following our own views or the views of somebody else. but by following the organized opinion of the world. the organized conscience of the world in the united nations. . . the other body has already considered this question and came up with an amendment which was but a declaration of what is already an obligation of the united states.
the other body has already passed an amendment to the european recovery program purporting to do something about the situation. what they have done is to say that where the united nations security council has ordered sanctions to be imposed. the united states will withhold its aid unless the particular nation affected performs what the united nations wants it to perform. well. that is already a proper obligation of the united states under the united nations charter. we are creating new obligation if we do hing but pass the amendment of the other body. in addition i would like to point out that i have  offered an amendment requiring that the administrator or the president forthwith cease aid to the netherlands if it continues its refusal to comply with the united nations security councils resolution. on the contrary. i have written it into the statement of policy to give our top executive authority on foreign affairsthe presidentwith complete flexibility with respect to when and how that policy is to be carried out. but. i certainly think it is fundamental if the european recovery program is to succeed in this fight for freedom. that this provision be put in the law as part of the fundamental policy of the program.
will the gentleman agree that the president. the secretary of state. and the united nations security. council. all three. have vigorously condemned the dutch for their failure to comply with the resolution of the united nations security council passed in december 1948.
the gentleman and the house may be interested in the fact as to the terms of the loans already made. showing what the national advisory council on international monetary and financial problems thinks about that. the terms are for 35 years at 21/2 percent interest. but there is amortization until june 1952. and in some cases amortization until june 1956 and  even interest on these loans until june 1952. we questioned the representative of the bank closely and learned that whereas there was a billion dollars available for that purpose it had  been put into loans because of the severity of the requirements. and they could only legitimately use $200.000.000 this year. these facts have a very definite bearing on the necessity for this bill this year.
. american policy on spain is  being pounded out by discussion in the american way. the secretary of state is right that sending an ambassador to spain in view of the united nations general assemblys resolution of december 1946 will be taken by western europe. almost leveled by the nazi and fascist dictatorships which cradled the present spanish regime. as our willingness to make the franco dictatorship an ally. whether or  the western european countries would be justified in reaching this conclusion or they would so conclude. american policy should avoid the extremes of the right as much as the extremes of the left and should  be satisfied to let western europe conclude that we will sacrifice expediency to principle in seeking allies against communism. spain needs free elections for a democratic form of government under the supervision of the united nations which. if invited. will. as it has in other countries. afford such supervision. with adequate time for spanish political parties to campaign. also under such supervision. so that the choice of the people of spain may be really kn. this is a feasible program and solution. i refer to an article by walter lippmann appearing in the new york herald tribune today in his column today and tomorrow entitled "on franco and defeatism" which has been inserted in the appendix. as showing clearly why our best national interest and the interests of democracy in the world require us to pursue the policy i have outlined.
i would recommend lending that to governments or nationals. depending on what would be the most productive. the world bank then would  be restrained in that way and could handle the matter either way. as the situation required.
s momentous anncement of the detection recently of an atomic explosion in the u. s. s. 1s. the greatest aggressive danger we still face is a union of german technical skill and german production facilities. with soviet manpower and natural resources. these grave potentials underline the words of high commissioner mccloy. mccloy urges halt to rise in nazismalso
the difficulty with answering that question is that the united nations asked that troops be withdrawn. and i say that though the gentleman may be right. our policy in following the lead of the united nations i believe should even be paramount to the consideration which the gentleman has named. i think we face a unique situation. and i believe we must get to the point where we will have a pacific pact. i do  think there is any question about the fact that the whole world must k that if the soviet union is going to move aggressively with her armed forces. that we would react in kind. that is the best we can give the free peoples of the world . we must realize that under present circumstances they must have military cover. they must k. too. that our policy is a human policy. that we intend to build up the lives and fortunes of people to the point where they can defend themselves. and that our responsibility in the world. as we see it. is  to drive them. which is what the soviets do. and keep them poor for our own benefit and aggrandizement. that is the whole and consistent policy in which this korean aid bill fits. as a necessary and essential part. and therefore i believe that is the fundamental reason for the houses second thought about it. members of the house have finally realized just how important this was to the whole future of our nation and to the whole future of the freedom which we are fighting for in the world which is left to us.
it was  pressure. on the contrary. it was a very wise pelitical decision. for this reason: the only part of korea which had free elections for the election of a democratic government was south korea. the united nations. which had urged and which had fought for and worked for free elections. felt that in all good faith it had to follow through on the sequel of free elections. having recognized that the government in south korea was a free and democratic government. it was only right that occupying troops be withdrawn from there. the united nations asked as well that troops be withdrawn from th korea. of course. for all practical purposes the forces in th korea remain the direct agencies of the soviet government and obey its orders. in my opinion. our withdrawal from south korea served as grist for our mill. to show to all the people of asia. who are constantly worried about the good faith of the great powers like the united states. that we do have good faith. that we do mean what we say. that we do  intend to be a colonial power. and that when the conditions for withdrawal are right. indeed we do withdraw.
because germany is a conquered country which has on three occasions been the aggressor and broken the peace of the world. and she still has a very long way to go to assure those she almost destroyed of her future. one in the united states or the united nations yet ks just how the situation in germany will turn out.
. it is with the greatest regret that i just heard my colleague. the gentleman from california. whose advice and counsel we value very highly on the committeeand i think that goes for members on both sidesdeclare that after long deliberation he felt that he had to vote against this bill. i believe that his views on the subject are important and worth while. and i ask the indulgence of the house in replying to him for just a very few minutes. because we must understand where south korea stands . south korea is on the very brink of fatal ecoic peril. with respect to their inflation. a reference to the committees report will indicate that the circulation of money has almost doubled in the space of a year. and the reason for that is the fact that american aid which was relied on and depended on by the korean people. albeit without commitmentlet me emphasize thatbut which they depended on. was  forthcoming. secondly. and very important. and this goes back to what my colleague. the gentleman from new york . spoke of when the bill was considered under general debate. let us be very clear about th korea. and let us  get confused by any assertion that we are backing some police state in south korea. because you can understand south korea without comparing it with th korea. th korea shut out the united nations commission which was sent there to insure a free election. in june of 1948 there was a manifesto by the government of th korea that there would be an election. call it an election if you will. but the fact is that 99 percent of the people would probably have been made to vote on a oneparty ticket to support that partyyet even at that election has yet been held. the people of south korea agreed to hold elections under the watchful eye of the united nations commission. and their government is the result of a free election. there is the difference. it is  just a matter of military protection in the pacific. i have urged. and i shall continue to urge and to fight for a pacific pact. which i think is essential. but that is  the only point. the fundamental point about the pacific is that the peoples of the pacific. the rank and file of the people. the teeming millions of them. want some recognition of their right to a better life. although they are relatively unskilled in the theories of freedom and the theories of constitutional government. the people of south korea turn to us and look to us to help them maintain a free government to help them to get for themselves a better life. if we help them accomplish this they. and the peoples of all asia will feel that we carry out our pledges to help peoples to gain for themselves freedom and a chance for a better standard of living. on the other hand. if we just baldly tell them that we must have completely superior. naked military power in that area we will defeat the ends and purposes of the free peoples of the world. for the peoples of asia will  believe that we can be trusted. and it will have its repercussions throughout all of asia. all of asia is watching what we do. i think. therefore. that the important. the overwhelming. the fundamental significance of this aid to south korea is the effect it will have on the common people of asia proving to them that the united states really means what it says in offering them an opportunity for their own freedom and their own wellbeing. proving to them that it is  a question of a naked military power display as between the united states and the soviet union.
. our record today would be incomplete if it did  e the untimely death in the line of duty of the hoable laurence a. steinhardt. the united states ambassador to canada. he has held .some of the most important diplomatic posts in the gift of our country. including the ambassadorships to russia. to turkey and to czechoslovakia. at times when the situation in each of those countries was extremely difficult. he handled those posts with the greatest credit to himself and our country. i knew mr. steinhardt as a lawyer in new york. but also in company with the gentleman from pennsylvania and the gentleman from kentucky i visited him in prague in 1947. in prigue at that time. when already the machinations. cabals. and intrigues were going on which ultimately turned czechoslovakia into an ironcurtain satellite. we found in the united states embassy an air of courage. determination. and skill in the person of the ambassador and which inspired his staff that made us extremely proud to be americans and extremely proud to be representatives in the congress. i extend most profound condolences to the most gracious mrs. steinhardt. and to the daughter and family of ambassador steinhardt. they may take great comfort from the fact that he served his country well and went to his last reward with the greatest ho and in the service of his country.
 the power to terminate this foreign aid in case its use in any particular country is inconsistent with our foreign policy. by giving him the power to tie the eca program to americas foreign policy and doing so in so many words as is done in this amendment. it will serve to satisfy the demands of a large group in the country. including myself. who feel that very serious things must be done with respect to policy on the shipment of arms to the arab states or on unification of ireland. which the united states is  pursuing in the foreign field in adequate measure.
. i am inserting two editorials in the appendix today which i think every member should read. both are entitled to the same effect: "un up to the test." "un must act." from the new york times and new york herald tribune. they deal with the fact that the united nations has  yet taken action to condemn communist chinese aggression in korea. the least that the united nations can do is to remain the worlds moral force for peace and justice. the only way to do that  is to condemn as unqualifiedly for their aggression iat korea. the chinese communists. just as the th koreans were so properly condemned when they undertook the unprovoked aggression against south korea. the united nations remains mankinds best and perhaps last hope for peace. at this stage of its development it has been unable to muster egh of its memberswith some able exceptionsfor the military support in korea which should have been forthcoming to implement un military sanctions. but that makes all the more important the retention of its position as the moral force for justice and peace in the world. in the matter of the un condemning chinese communist aggression in korea time is on the side of the aggressor.
i would like to present my felicitations to the gentleman and tell him that he is rt the only one on the floor today who can recite a personal incident. you will recall this morning that the gentleman from georgia spoke about myrna loy and mr. sargeant. who spent their honeymoon while attending the conference in paris. i spent my honeymoon in 1947 while attending a united nations trade conference in habana.
. the current meetings of the boards of govers of the international bank for reconstruction and development and the international monetary fund in washington should be utilized to determine how the resources tied up in the fund and  used very little. can be used effectively. i think that can best be done by a merger between the fund and the bank. at a time of unparalleled need for international capital while the international bank is engaged in an active lending policy and the united states in undertaking large overseas foreign aid commitments. the capital in the fund is being conserved "for use at a later period when it can be more effective in establishing and maintaining relatively stable international exchange relationships." the quote is from a -letter from the secretary of the treasury of april 6. 1951. in response to my demand for a merger of the international bank and the fund. there is $8.000.000.000 in capital in the fund of which about $1.500.000.000 is in gold and over $900.000.000 is in dollars and other currencies. the united states subscription is $2.750.000.the time has come for a review by the national advisory council on international monetary and financial problems of what the united states ought to do about the fund in preparation for compliance with the demand made by the foreign affairs committee that this subject be looked into. in its report on the recently passed mutual security bill. it is certainly to be expected that the secretary of the treasury. as united states gover of the bank and the fund. will be exploring the question of merger or other effective use of the resources of the international monetary fund this week.
. the country has been shocked by recent disclosures regarding the increase of the narcotics habit. particularly among the very young. in new york it was recently disclosed that arrests for violation of various narcotic laws were greatly increased during the year of 1951. an investigation. for example. in the state of new york. under the direction of hon. nathaniel goldstein. state attorney general. revealed conditions so shocking that he made a whole series of recommendations particularly for the more severe punishment of those guilty of peddling and pushing the drug and for extended and improved treatment facilities for the victims who have formed the habit. but even state and municipal action in law enforcementand federal action pursuant to the boggs act also increasing penalties severelythough very important. do  appear to strike at the root of the evil effectively egh. expanded and better facilities for treatment at the one end and an effort to dry up the source of the drug at the other are the two areas in which much effective work remains to be done. in connection with a study of the problem. it appears that the principal drug in use was heroin or its derivatives and that one of the major sources of the illicit trade in this drug was italy. apparently heroin has supplanted a drug in use some years ago when the problem was much less widespread. cocaine. which was the basis for a heavy illicit traffic into the united states from peru. by agreement between the united states and peru made in 1949 this source was dried up as far as the potential for illicit trade was concerned. with the resultant effect in the united states of drying up the illicit supply. following this lead i appealed to the state department for an effort to make a similar agreement with the italian government and in return was advised according to the state department letter. which with its permission is appended. that despite the full cooperation of the italian government and the united nations which has been obtained there has been discovered the disappearance of 164 kilograms of heroin in italy which is estimated to represent 8 years illicit supply. therefore such cooperation is very promising for the future but leaves a grave problem . we certainly have a right to expect. first. that the auspicious arrangements participated in by our government with the italian government and the united nations for eliminating the availability of heroin which might ultimately flow into illicit uses should be pursued. second. that all authorities of italy. the united states. and the other nations of the united nations. will  concentrate their activities on unearthing the disappearance of the large stock of heroin which has been reported. discovering and destroying as much of it as possible and severely punishing the culprits. the state department letter above referred to dated january 8. 1952. is appended. together with my letter of request:
may i say to the committee that it was at my instance that the united states director of the international monetary fund was called. i did  want my remarks to my friend from michigan to be construed as being other than agreement with him on the substantive question of principle in the effort to work this thing out right. we should and we must. it is creating much mischief. i was just dealing with the one specific situation to which my friend referred.
i have a report of the executive board of the u. n. childrens fund that spells out in dollars and cents every item budgeted in every area. and i will put it in the record. it does  contain anything about global projects.
there is such proposal in the bill. we propose only to provide for the common defense of the pacific by the nations of the pacific themselves. the only reason for any reference to the united nations charter is that that charter allows regional organizations. this organization we have idea will have anything to do with the united nations.
. and as authorized for the 1954 fiscal year. if we do  participate as we have before in connection with this program. with the russians participating in it as they are. and with an emous number of nations throughout the world benefiting from it. and participating in it . we will be striking a very serious blow against our own participation and our own prestige in the u. n. regardless of what you think about the u. n.. all of us here. everyone of us i am confident want what the united states proposes to have a good chance to carry in the united nations. we do  want defeats there. this part we have in the u. n. technical assistance program is a very important feature of our standing and prestige in the un. why did the committee turn it down. the committee says in its report that it believes the contribution of the united states should be only onethird to united nations funds. it feels. therefore. it is carrying out the general view of the house on this subject. but the difficulty is this. we have expressed ourselves as to the onethird principle in respect of the administrative expenses of the u. n. that has been the big battle constantly. when we come to supporting the administrative expenses of the u. n.. we have said we want to cut it down to onethird of the aggregate sum. we have  done that with respect to the u. n. programs. whether they are refugee programs or technical assistance. our onethird principle has been in respect to the administrative expenses. this is  an administrative expense. this is a substantive question of technical assistance which is extremely ecoical and is of the most important consequence so far as the prestige of the united states in the u. n. is concerned. and carries tremendous prestige for the united states to an emous number of u. n. members where it is most needed. therefore. it does  violate the fundamental principle that this house laid down in the past about the onethird participation in the u. n. administrative expenses. on the contrary. with a very modest expenditure. it subserves the very greatest interest of this country in the parliament of nations. i repeat. whether anybody likes the u. n. or . they want united states prestige in the united nations so long as it stands and it functions as it does today. to be of the highest. the adoption of this amendment will be an emous contribution in that regard.
. there has been in some circles in our country a regrettable tendency to regard the korean war as some kind of wasted effort. this inevitably could have an effect on those engaged in it and their kin. i believe that history will show that this was one of the most useful wars ever fought. as secretary dulles said. this is the first time an international organization for peace. the u. n. took official action to repel armed aggression by force. if the world is to have a chance for peace. this action may well have shown the way to that chance. it behooves all of us. as serious men and women. to make our suggestions. based upon what this truce has produced in our minds. i happen to have been a party to a great effort which should be sparked by this korean truce. that is. an effort to create a pacific pact to provide for the mutual security of free asia. the pacific ocean area. and oceania. including australia and new zealand. we have great problems in that area of the world. first. the unification of korea. second. the serious eventuality of a diversion of chinese communist military strength to aid the communists in indochina and malaya. or possibly the use of the chinese communist forces against formosa. third. the whole unresolved problem of the displacement of european regimes in south and southeast asia. without leaving fatal power vacuums into which the communists might step. and fourth. the free worlds way of dealing with the unbelievably low living standards in that region. which make it so vulnerable to communism and disorder. it is my belief that only action to create a regional organization for free asia and the pacific ocean area through a conference called promptly on the model of the 19nation allasian conference. including australia and new zealand. held in new delhi in january 1949 in connection with indonesian independence. can adequately deal with this critical situation for the free world. i believe that experience can be duplicated if we use the same amount of effort. energy. and resource which we used in negotiating the peace treaty with japan and the mutualsecurity arrangements with the philippines. new zealand. and australia. all of which are in effect as the basis for the pacific pact. i point out that the statesman who negotiated the japanese peace treaty and these mutualsecurity arrangements was john foster dulles. who is  our secretary of state. -the call for a pacific pact was contained in the mutualsecurity amendments we considered and passed only in june of this year. it was stricken out in the conference with the senate. because it was said there that the mutual defense assistance act of 1949. as amended. includes a somewhat similar expression of congressional policy as follows: the congress hereby expresses itself as favoring the creation by the free countries and the free peoples of the far east of a joint organization. consistent with the charter of the united nations. to establish a program of selfhelp and mutual cooperation designed to develop their ecoic and social wellbeing. to safeguard basic rights and liberties. and to protect their security and independence. this is all too important and deserves that we embody it in a separate resolution. i am introducing today a resolution for a pacific pact to provide for the mutual security of free asia. the pacific ocean area and oceania through a regional organization within the framework of the united nations charter and for participation by the united states therein. the text of the resolution follows: resolved by the house of representatives (the senate concurring). that the congress favors the negotiation of a pacific pact. consistent with the provisions of the united nations charter. for the common defense of the free peoples of the far east. south asia and the pacific ocean area. and the participation therein of the united states. the opportunity for a united states foreigh policy of brilliant and driving initiative presented to the free world by the korean truce should be at once and on first priority employed by the united states in initiating and working on a pacific pact. with the same perseverance and skill shown in negotiating the peace treaty with japan and the mutual security arrangements with the philippines. australia. and new zealand. we should spark it by passing this resolution which i am introducing today.
may i make the observation that we like to have friends. but in this bill we are seeking allies. also. that we. unlike the communists. need satellite states to enslave. but that we want to help peoples in the rolls of the free world. india is a vital counterfoil to communist china and must be kept free. ambassador allen. who is an extremely able man. and in whom so many members of the house have confidence. reported this conversationhearings. page 528with prime minister nehru: he said he recognized that if any country becomes so dependent on foreign aid that it becomes addicted to the habit. then it never will be able to stand on its own feet. he said india needed foreign aid but at the same time he did  want india to become an habitue of it. he wanted india to stand on its own feet as soon as it could and as well as it could.. he referred to this as a limitation on indias desire to have foreign assistance. i might say that i respect that point of view. it is a great deal more dignified. it seems to me. and selfreliant than just to put your hand out for as much as you can get. that. i think. is the attitude we all want taken. with respect to countries we work with in the mutualsecurity program. what we want them to do is to stand on their own feet in the lists of the free. that i k is the gentlemans view. and it is mine. india. building up ecoically. has a development plan involving $4 billion in investment. and our aid is estimated  to exceed 10 percent in any case overall. this plan is the redeeming assurance of freedom and of the support of the free world for the people of india. this is our direct channel. from the american people to the people of india. of selfhelp and mutual cooperation. it is invaluable. the worst thing we could do is to shut off from us indias people. i ask that the amendment be rejected.
. our countrys unalterable opposition to the admission of the communist chinese regime to membership in the united nations is well nigh universally the conviction of americans. it would be dangerous for the other free peoples to think otherwise. the communist chinese regime is a convicted aggressor in korea. convicted by the united nations itself. and continues to this day to proclaim defiance to the u. n. peace efforts there. the communist chinese regime is also preventing the free will of the people of indochina as to the form of their independence and of their future government to be expressed by aiding and abetting communist aggression and subversion there. in addition. the communist chinese regime is guilty of terror and persecution of foreigners. and the holding of prisoners. military and civil. without disclosure. violating the civilized practices between nations. the communist chinese regime is also enslaving and terrorizing the chinese people and  permitting them to exercise the right of selfdetermination. our government must use all its powers as a member of the u. n. and as the ackledged leader of the free world against the admission of the communist chinese regime to the united nations. it would be hollow mockery to number the communist chinese regime among the other peaceloving states or to assume that the communist chinese regime will in good faith accept the obligations contained in the present charter and be able and willing to carry out these obligations as called for by article 4 of chapter 2 of the charter of the united nations. i do  believe. however. that the way to keep the communist chinese regime out of the united nations is to threaten to withdraw from u. n. membership or active participation if the communist chinese regime be admitted to the u. n. over our objection and possible veto. this. too. we need neither threaten  promise relying rather on the moral convictions of the other free peoples who are the overwhelming majority on the security council. the soviet union has vetoed the admission of 14 nations to u. n. membership: austria. finland. ireland. italy. jordan. republic of korea. nepal. portugal. cambodia. japan. libya. vietnam. laos. and ceylon. five of the communist satellites have been denied membership for failure to receive the necessary seven votes of the security council: albania. bulgaria. hungary. rumania. and mongolian peoples republic. the united states has resolutely refused any deals to trade membership of one group for the other as immoral. i realize that the united kingdom is rumored  to be favorable to communist chinese regimes admission to the u. n. as one devoted to free world cooperation and world leadership of our country i would appeal to the government and people of great britain to respect in this instance the deep convictions of the government and people of the united states that to admit the communist chinese regime to the u. n. would be immoral. gravely dangerous to the u. n.s objectives. and an invitation to appeasement. and therefore. to world war iii. i hope the british government and people will  join us in keeping the communist chinese regime out of the u. n. the reasons against threatening to withdraw from the u. n. are: first. we would be assuming a defeat in the u. n. we have right to assume. we would be doubting that the moral convictions of the free world are equivalent to our own. second. we would be conceding in advance our willingness to break up the chosen instrument of the free world for world peace. in which the free world has had marked success. and which has in the overwhelming majority of cases. unless inhibited by soviet vetoes. overwhelmingly repudiated the communist world and its ideas. third. the physical location of the united nations and the indissoluble legal bonds of membership both of which it is to our great interest to maintain dictate against an advance commitment to withdraw we may later deeply regret. an advance commitment which will have lost its force from having been uttered too soon and used as a threat thereby writing down an action that would be so epochal. national unity in our opposition to the communist chinese regimes admission to the u. n.. the national security and the national interest can all best be attained without the added threat of withdrawal from the u. n.
i wish to explain the situation. i am in favor of the vorys amendment which is directed at a totally different matter. to appropriate the $17 million for the united states contribution to the united nations technical assistance program. my amendment proposes to add what the committee on appropriations has taken out of the presidents program for the united states technical assistance program. which was $112 million. which was the administrations express request for technical assistance by- agreements between the united states and other friendly countries. the vorys amendment concerns the united nations multilateral technical assistance program which is an excellent investment for us in those areas which we can reach. for sound reasons. with our own program. it is an excellent investment and i am for it. but it does  deal with the question of the reduction in the strictly united states technical assistance program. which program we should  reduce. the president has requested us  to. and we should . for this reason. we are talking here about a great struggle with the communist bloc. eightyfive or ninety percent of this bill is for military defense security. what is then our offensive in this struggle. we are to have over 3.000 technicians abroad working for the technical assistance program. building up good will and support for the united states and for the free world. in these numerous countries in the world. if you look at the roll. you will see that this technical assistance program is getting into every spot in the world which is in real danger in a most effective way. are we going to be so foolish as to pinch pennies in our strong point in the offensive for freedom. i am all for our program of military security. it is entirely justified. its costs run into billions. in terms of money aggregates it makes a ridiculous comparison for us to think that we are going to save $12 million by cutting it off this technical assistance program which gives help in $1 million or $2 million chunks or less to a whole host of countries. which country are we going to take it out of. if any. it will probably be out of some country where we need it the most. let us take the case of latin america. where we are spending about onefourth of this whole amount provided for technical assistance something like $23 million. those countries think so much of this program that they are contributing twice as much. something over $40 million a year to our $23 million so that this program may be carried on adequately. it seems to me that the committee ought to vote my amendment. taking care of the united nations technical assistance program and approving the presidents request for the technical assistance appropriation in this offensive for freedom.
. here is the record as finally completed of this congress. there will be much controversy as to the sufficiency of the accomplishments of this congress. i believe that on the whole it has done many worthwhile things which needed doing. but there is much that is undone or only partly done. progress toward peace. security. and higher standards of living is heavily dominated by world events and more strongly influenced by sections in the united states than by party alinement. peace the two dominant recent considerations have been accentuated understanding by the free world. of the mortal peril inherent in abomb and hbomb war. and free discussion of the idea of coexistence with the communist bloc. the accentuation of the danger from the abomb and hbomb is likely to prove a benefit to the free world which mally moves more slowly than it should in reaction to peril and the peril is the possible elimination of all civilization in such a war. the hope of coexistence may be a pleasing illusion to the british or any other people. who we understand are so much closer to the dread nightmare of a sudden communist attack with abombs and hbombs of which dictators like those in the kremlin are always capable. but it is certainly  the stuff of which policies for world peace can be made. the fundamental dynamics of the communist system. which are the same for any totalitarian system. for hitler as well as malenkov and company is such that it must constantly expand for it is unsuccessful in getting the cooperation of its own people and in doing an effective internal job. its only hope for survival. therefore. is to continually scare its own people with the fact that they are being threatened by external enemies. to continually expand by infiltration. aggression. or any other means matter how immoral and. if possible. to overwhelm all opposition and to rule the whole world as one totalitarian system. coexistence is an acceptance of conquests already made and presumes that we will  protest the communist chinese illgotten gains in th korea and thern vietnam. or the soviet unions illgotten gains in east germany. poland. czechoslovakia. hungary. rumania. and albania. it would be the height of folly in terms of policy and immoral as well to concede the legality or permanence of the fruits of these aggressions. but it is entirely practicable to take this attitude without going to the other extreme of inviting a preventive war. i am convinced that the congress and the american people will  tolerate any such eventuality. the program which appears best for us in the quest for world peace is to place even greater reliance on the collective action that can be attained in the united nations. even though the government must  be to strive to russian veto and other delaying tactics establish the southeast asia treaty ormay prove very nettling and disrupting ganization (seato). thereby parallelat times. second. that we should have ing the situation in europe where we a formula to deal with colonialism and have a th atlantic treaty organizathe tens of millions of people who need tion. nato. of 14 nations organized to be brought to independence and self- for their own security and cooperation. government. and who have heretofore in southeast asia there should be heavy been selfgoverning. regional or- emphasis also upon regional ecoic ganization is the best way to inspire con- cooperation through such an organizafidence in former colonial areas and to tion and in addition remaining problems give them the greatest amount of in- of independence and selfgovernment in ternal strength during the formative that area can be dealt with most effecperiod of selfgovernment. tively through the intermediation of such if we are to avoid world war iii. the a regional organization. competition between the free and the mutual security act communist world will be ultimately re- the congress has passed the mutual solved by attracting from behind the security program for 1954. this emiroa curtain many of the peoples and bodies the foreign policy of the united states  enslaved there. with our states. the bill provides for overall genius for production and our mag- foreign aid of about $3 billion of which niflcent traditions to advance the dig- 85 percent is directly and indirectly for nity of the individual we should at military assistance to our allies and to once undertake with vigor the offensive regional security organizations of which in the ecoic. social. education. and we are members and 15 percent is for and information flelds. i believe also technical and ecoic assistance. that in this way we can be successful in other interesting features of the bill reattracting from behind the iron curtain quired that 50 percent of united states many of the peoples and states  en- aid material be transported in amerislaved there. canflag vessels. about $700 million is asia and the pacific provided for assistance against commuthere is question that the free nist aggression in the area of indochina world suffered a serious reverse when in order to deal with the situation which the red river delta of indochina fell  faces us as a result of the cession. into communist hands. the commu- in effect. of th vietnam to the comnists have gotten a foothold in south munists. aher important provision and southeast asia from which they can is one to stimulate overseas travel by  threaten thailand. malaya. south united states citizens and by foreigners vietnam. laos and cambodia. indonesia in the united states following generally and burma. india. pakistan. and ceylon the lines of a bill which i introduced. and have also a new window on the pa- and which received widespread support cific. anyone who had the idea that the in the congress and the country. about communist aggression in indochina was $70 million is to be provided for spesome kind of an effort by indochinese cial ecoic aid to india in its 4year nationalists to drive out the french will development plan. $115 million is prosoon see that the communists will do vided for special ecoic aid in ishing but enslave the population of rael and the near east. and $9 million thern vietnam. under these circum- for special ecoic aid in south amerstances. the action of our government ica. about $110 million is provided for in  recognizing the armistice agree- the technicalassistance programs in ment between france and the commu- countries of the free world and a united nist forces in indochina insofar as it states contribution to the u. n. multititioned the country but stating that lateral technical assistance program of force would  be used to undo the about $9 million adequate to december armistice agreement seems exactly ap- 31. 1954. is also provided. about $281/2 propriate. million is provided for other humanitawe have suffered in indochina from rian programs like the united nations the failure to organize the region of childrens fund. the intergovernmental southeast asia for its own security and committee on european migrants. to sponsor selfgovernment and inde- transportation overseas of relief packpendence for selfgoverning peoples ages. and others. two hundred million there. and see  that such regional dollars is provided for relief and recoganization can be improvised when struction in the republic of korea and aggression comes despite the fact that $30 million is authorized for the support we have mutual security arrangements and resettlement of the palestinearab with japan. the philippines. new zea- refugees. land. and australia. the mutual security program marks i joined in assisting in the adoption the continuance. in 195455. of the polof resolutions first refusing to recognize icy of erecting a shield of military secuany conquests by communist aggression rity of regional organizations. alliances. in this area of the world. this was the and bases throughout the free world. proposal of british foreign secretary behind this shield we pursue programs of anthony eden for a locarpact for ecoic and technical assistance and this area. also. the congress reaffirmed cooperation with these same allies and its strong opposition to the admission of carry on the interchange of students. communist china as the representative professors. trade unionists. businessmen. of china in the united nations. empha- and civic leaders among the countries sizing its conviction that brigandage and of the free world and explain the posiaggression should  be a way to get into tion of our country through the media the united nations. the policy of our of the united states information agency. the policy is sound but needs to be pursued with greater resources. vigor. and initiative than we have yet shown to meet the magnitude of the communist challenge and competition with which we are faced in the free world.
. i do  think there is any member of the senate who ks mr. zellerbach better than i do. if there is. i should be very happy to k it. i have kn mr. zellerbach for 25 years. personally and intimately. up to 1941. before i went into the army. i personally served as attorney in the east for his company. the crownzellerbach co. and the law firm with which i was connected up to the end of 1954 served them thereafter. so i k something about this matter. i say to the senator from wisconsin. though i understand the traditions of this body. and though i had intention of participating in debate until i could make some direct contribution on a measure based upon my own experience which could be effective and useful. i think it would be a dereliction of duty for me to sit silent when the senate is considering a subject of which i k so much. and which involves sending to italy an ambassador to represent our government in one of the most critical areas of the world. i should like to tell the senator from wisconsin that i am distinctly proud of any connection i have had with ambassador zellerbach. i believed the particular matter to which the senator refers was a case in which i represented the crownzellerbach corp.. and it occurred in the thirties. my recollection is it was about 20 years ago. i did  k that subject was coming up today.
. in order to complete the discussion on the question of the murals. i should like to state for the record that a hearing was held on may 1. 1953. before the subcommittee on buildings and grounds of the other body. and that the resolution to which reference was made. relating to the murals. was  reported by the subcommittee. to continue briefly with  of the americaitaly society of san francisco. a director of the americaitaly society of new york. and a member of the advisory board of the italianamerican chamber of commerce on the pacific coast. in 1952 he was awarded a decoration for his marshall plan service in italy. and in 1955 was again awarded a decoration by the italian government for that service. finally. mr. zellerbach was an alternate united states delegate to the eighth general assembly of the united nations in new york. and a very active participant in the conferences arranged by prince bernhardt of the netherlands. which have had a great deal to do with the movement for ecoic unity in free europe. so long as i shall have the ho to belong to this body. i hope very much that i shall raise my voice. and i hope other senators will raise their voices on the affirmative side with respect to such appointments. especially of high officials which our government is sending abroad to represent us. they carry with them the prestige. the dignity. and the majesty of the united states. mr. zellerbach deserves to carry that prestige and that dignity and that majesty. as is true in the life of any busy man who takes his public responsibilities seriously. there are some who disagree and some who agree with what he has done. however. the things he has done he has done as an american i the service of his country. with sincerity and with a desire to be a useful public citizen. by those standards. and weighing the affirmative against anything that may be said on the other side. i respectfully submit that mr. zellerbach is eminently qualified to servc as ambassador of the people of the united states to italy.
i like very much what the senator from illis has said on this point. i believe it is true that the problem we face is a juridical one: can the united nations order its troops to stay on egyptian soil against the insistence of egypt that it leave. that is the danger. we must be either prepared to undertake it. in the way of leadership. as our colleague from minnesota said this morning. and for the united states to lead in the determination that the united nations will assert that kind of power. or we will have to fill the vacuum. hence. i respectfully submit to the senator from illis that we must even face the possibility of a naval patrol through the gulf of aqaba to secure international navigation. this is a policy which goes back to the early 19th century. so far as our country is concerned. in short. if we are to be powerless in this situation. and if we are lost in our own semantics and in a question of legalities then we are lost indeed. i submit that to the senator.
i believe that the idea that the united nations will go into a countrys territory. in order to maintain the peace of the world. will have to be established as a juridical fact. i was merely pointing out that we have to think of two alternatives if we are to be effective. i emphasize again that if we are going to be lost in juridical arguments. we will have to find other ways to do it. otherwise we may lose the confidence of the free world. aside from being embroiled in this situation.
subsequently said: . i should like to identify myself with senators who spoke earlier expressing confidence in david bruce as our prospective ambassador to the republic of west germany. i have kn mr. bruce for a long time. and have great confidence in him. i may observe that it is the essence of bipartisanship when the best from both parties are picked for important appointments. perhaps the majority leader looks for too much when he expects every member of both parties to be convinced that bipartisanship is best. we can hardly expect that in our country. we have seen today some of the differences which exist. the expression of views on both sides has been helpful. it has shown what i think is true. namely. that the great majority of opinion supports bipartisanship. including appointments to high office.
. at this point i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record. at the conclusion of my remarks. a document entitled "united states foreign policy and the united nations." it is a draft study prepared at my request. and shows three alternative situations. it shows cases in which we have acted outside the united nations. cases involving international affairs in which we have acted partially within the united nations and partially outside the united nations. and cases where we have acted completely within the united nations. this study shows that at this stage in the development of our international policies. all three alternatives are essential to the maintenance and the pursuit of our policy.
s address of february 21. 1957. that "we should  assume that if israel withdraws. egypt will prevent israeli shipping from using the suez canal or the gulf of aqaba. if. unhappily. egypt does hereafter violate the armistice agreement or other international obligations then this should be dealt with firmly by the society of nations." second. if egypt should attempt to send troops into the gaza strip we would consider that an imminent threat to the peace and demand united nations general assembly action firmly determining the role of the existing or any other needed u. n. force to keep the peace. third. that unless colonel nasser complies with the six principles for the operation of the suez canal in which egypt concurred and carries this out in practice. we shall help the free peoples of europe to bypass the canal. let us  forget the example of mossadeghs iran. which for a time seemed as stridently opposed to the requirements of fairness to the free world as egypt seems to be . but which found that the free world could  be defied indefinitely. when it refused to trade with a declared enemy. it will take fortitude and money to deal with colonel nasser. but this plus the early declaration of our declared position is a lot cheaper and less dangerous than a new outbreak of hostilities in the middle east. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record. as a part of my remarks. two editorials dealing with the subject. published in the new york times and in the washington post and times herald.
. a new crisis is building up in the middle east. this time political militarybut just as serious. there is an indicated breakdown of international support for the maintenance of the palestine arab refugees through the united nations relief and works agency for palestine refugees and ice of a new declaration of ecoic warfare on israel by the arab league. the leagues ecoic council has just voted to start the processunless halted by more levelheaded arab leadershipof tightening the boycott and blockade of israel and blacklisting firms. even american firms. that sell to israel. it will be recalled that it was the arab league. sparked by egypt and syria. which in 1955 kicked over the johnston plan for the use of the jordan river waters through a united nations authoritywhich had been agreed to by israel and jordan. the two principal countries interestedand with it one of the mideasts best hopes for peace and stability. this new crisis is threatened at a time when there were reasons for looking toward a brightening situation. the military situation is relatively stable. the influence of colonel nasser is diminishing. united nations and united statesisrael relations are much improved. the eisenhower doctrine has been accepted in practical effect by the arab countries. other than syria and egypt. and by israel. and the united nations emergency force remains in the gaza strip and on the gulf of aqaba. i urge the administration to start a major drive  in the middle east for the resettlement of palestine arab refugees in the arab lands. to do this. we should call in our ambassadors and block out a diplomatic campaign to win acceptance for the johnston plan for the development of the jordan river valley as the first step among the governments involved. and we should follow through from that point. we are about to consider the mutual security act again. it contains provisions allowing of our backing for regional development programs in the mideast like the johnston plan. and it also provides continued authorization for our share of the united nations cost of caring for the palestine arab refugees. the same principle is applicable to the remainder of the $200 million available under the eisenhower doctrine authorization resolution. it means that our government needs to pursue the initiative with determination. which was opened to us by the failure of egyptian influence to dismember jordan and the first success of the eisenhower doctrine in that operation. most observers believe that the palestine arab refugees remain one of the most nettling problems standing in the way of some affirmative progress toward permanent peace in the middle east. i have been in the gaza strip recently. and have seen the palestine arab refugees there. from my personal observation. i am convinced that the camps longer contain any appreciable numbers of doctors. lawyers. educators. or other professional or merchant class people. but that those remaining are essentially farmers who should be relatively easy to resettle. by  it is clearly recognized even by objective arab statesmen themselves that substantial resettlement is practical only in the arab states. israel has already admitted 5.000 of such refugees officially. and is. i understand. permitting some 40.000 more to remain uficially to reunite arab families. israel will. i believe. repatriate some additional modest number. but can be asked to admit a potential fifth column by the tens of thousands. the johnston plan provides for dividing the waters of the jordan river and its tributary the yarmuk. with israel getting 40 percent and the arab states 60 percent of the water. this project would reclaim egh desert to resettle an estimated onehalf of the about 500.000 palestine arab refugees in jordan. whose natural restlessness has contributed much to jordans unsettlement.  comprising the bulk of all the 800.000 to 900.000 palestine arab refugees. 922.000 are reportedly drawing u. n. rations. the project will aid as well in facilitating the settlement of the increased thousands of european and arabland jewish refugees coming to israel. the plan involves estimated costs of $200 million. and sharing of costs. contributions by the arab states. israel. and our country as well as others. remain to be worked out. but the objections to it are political. and this is the time when they can be overcome. our country has a large financial stake in this matter. too. aside from the overriding issue of peace. as we have been contributing about 70 percent of the funds contributed by participating member nations in the u. n. for the support of the palestine arab refugees. through the u. n. relief and works agency for palestine refugees. having contributed approximately $173 million from june 1948 to the present. we are also committed to participate in a u. n. resettlement fund of $200 million. of which less than 10 percent has been spent for rehabilitation because of arab opposition to resettlement projects. moscow has never contributed one penny to helping the palestine arab refugees. and even the oilrich arab states have contributed small sums of under $100.000 a year. also involved is the financial viability of jordan. a key mideast problem. and one the johnston plan could affect mightily for the good.
i also call attention to a splendid report on the question of overseas private investments by the american enterprise association. two outstanding recommendations were made. but  acted on. and i strongly recommend them. the first recommendation is that any country that requires foreign aid assistance from the united states should sign a bilateral agreement. relating to guaranties for private investments overseas. which will be receptive. at this time we are making them in countries with which we do  have any such agreements. i think that is a mistake. second. we should consider the advisability of dropping the requirement that the government give approval to projects under consideration in the guarantee program. because it is inhibiting the whole program. i hope the committee will give their full consideration to the matter. i withdraw the amendment.
one would get the feeling. if reading the senators speech with certain glasses. that there are overtones of criticism of the administration implied in it. king. as both of us do. that the bipartisan foreign policy has had the greatest amount of success. will the senator from massachusetts agree with me that it is perfectly possible to lay that aside and to forget about criticizing anyone. and to ask the united states to take the position that. having tried and tried again and having played along with the french. on the theory that the united nations which has been referred to should  have the matter under consideration. as being one of domestic jurisdiction.  the time has come when the united states can let the u. n. stand aside any longer. that can be the position of the united statesnamely. that having done the best we could with an ally. by waiting and waiting. the united states  feels that in the overall interest of international peace. some mediation from an international body must ensue.
as the editorial states. we should at least show our sympathy by direct aid to the people who have been bereaved. the other way to do it is thisand again i say we must be precise in this regard: whatever the american policy has been in the past. it must  be changed to provide that we use every organization of government to bring about mediation of this dispute in the united nations. i still think the united nations. which was effective in indonesia. which was effective in palestine. and which was effective in other areas of the world. can be effective in this tunisian situation here. at one time we voted against the consideration of this issue by the general assembly. we have to be foursquare about it. we have to make as a major item of government policy the fact that every organ of the united nations should be used to bring about the end of this dispute. this is a clear and precise precedent. and demands an orderly policy on the part of the united states. hing else will do. there seems to be. in my opinion. quicker or better method of approach.
. i may say to the senator from illis that i heard the colloquy between my two colleagues who are so heavily responsible for the depressedareas bill as it concerns our own country. i am kn to be very devoted to the foreign aid and technical assistance programs. in all fairness. i think it should be said that men like myselfand i am  alone. by any meansfeel very strongly about the pending bill for precisely the reason disclosed. we realize our tremendous responsibility to the people of our own country. both for peace and for wellbeing. we believe we serve the cause of peace by fighting for the plan for foreign aid and technical assistance. but we also believe that we must equally serve the cause of the wellbeing of our own people. and the senator from illis and the senator from maine are giving us that opportunity. for which i am personally very grateful.
. i shall take only a half minute more. because the amendment will go to conference. i shall complete the presentation of my position. so that it will be before the committee of conference. i refer particularly to the analysis of american private investment. its size. and how deeply involved in overseas operations are a great many american companies which have an estimated $60 billion worth of goods and services which is involved in foreign operations. which includes american companies shipping from the united states. as well as a large group of companies which manufacture overseas. i point out the tremendous amount of technical assistance estimated at twice that of the united states government rendered  only by american corporations. but also by voluntary organizations. colleges. universities. foundations. missions. trade unions. business associations. and technical associations such as those for lawyers. doctors. engineers. and others. all of these operations should be effectively coordinated with united states foreign policy. at a time when we are searching for ways and means to supplement the military aspects of our mutual security program. a study of the tremendously expanding ecoic and technical assistance activities of private united states groups will reveal new ways in which the great resources they are using in foreign operations can be utilized. i am aware of other studies already made on the role of private investment abroad. but e so far have dealt directly with our pressing need to coordinate the extensive operations of private enterprise with our publicly sponsored foreign aid and technical assistance programs. many businessmen often do  k where to turn in washington in order to ascertain whether the united states regards it as being in its interest or  in its interest for private organizations to engage in certain overseas operations. for these reasons. i sincerely hope that a program for a report will be developed along these lines. i think it will be extremely important in assuring a successful future for our countrys role in world affairs.
the senator made a statement about the sum of $11 billion. it is a fact that military aid money does  generate any counterpart funds. and that today very little of what is expended under the whole foreign aid program generates counterpart funds. this is all a heritage of other days. when counterpart was generated in very large part.
the fact is that the amount of money available for international lending is  large egh. the best way to illustrate that fact is by showing that the number of legitimate applications which ought to be accepted are 5 to 6 times the amount of money available. even if we were to allow the full $800 million which is the amount authorized through appropriations. the fundamental and hard. realistic fact is that the world has grown so much that a billion dollars today means what tens of millions of dollars meant formerly. the fact is that the international bank for reconstruction and development has a capital of $10 billion. and that is  egh. what the senator from oklahoma is trying to do is to tap new sources of capital. there are  two sources from which money can be loaned in the international field. they are the various lending agencies. and united states foreign aid. united states foreign aid may or may  be increased. because there is always some serious resistance to it. the international lending agencies have their own problems in terms of limitations. we have to go to yet a third course. and that is to make some temporary arrangements for particular situations with other countries to be our partners in respect to the job of world financing which needs to be done. the senator from oklahoma offers us an alternative. a way in which to go into partnership with other countries. some of whom may have only soft currencies. in order to help carry some of the load of international financing. which is indispensable if we are to meet the russians and beat them on the ground of international competition. there is still a fourth way. it may be that one day some of us will come forward with a proposal for international lending by financing with american private capital in some emous mutual effort. some multibilliondollar effort. but. in the meantime. the senator from oklahoma offers us a line along which we can try to make some measurable achievement in the field. i have lived with this problem for a long time. i had the ho in the other body to be the chairman of a subcommittee which dealt with foreign ecoic policy. unless we solve this problem equally with the solution of the problem with reference to feudal societies which are trying to find their way into a new nationalism. which is a problem that is  implicit. we can be defeated. which is something we do  often realize. we think that. traditionally. we have to win. we could lose. it is the fruitfulness of such new ideas as this which will enable us to win. we ought to try such ideas. take advantage of them. and study them. i think we should be grateful to the senator from oklahoma for giving to us an opportunity of having a totally new approach in a totally new field. we should try to get some help for ourselves in an area in which we sorely need help. namely. the financing of the tremendous load in backward areas of the world today.
i associate myself with the remarks of the senator from connecticut and point out that in our country we are  afraid to send an artist to the united nations for fear the artist will defect. because we k that the artist is wedded to the finest values which we represent. this appointment. i think. is one of the great tributes to our kind of society. i think our colleague from connecticut is to be highly complimented for calling the attention of the senate to this signal appointment.
i can state authoritatively whether that happened or . i do have a recollection of a similar situation. however. i believe we can draw the analogy. because that appears to be the communist pattern. judging by what they did with the united nations commission on hungary. there they took the attitude that they would  admit the commission at all. i have a dim recollection of the incident referred to by the senator from california. i am sure we can take it as a finding of fact that that is the position taken by the soviet union and all of its satellites. that they will  let anyone in to investigate the question of whether any free election would be possible.
 woodrow wilson in his historic fourteen points issued in 1917. since then. the application of this principle :in the form of plebiscites held under the auspices of the league of nations or the united nations has led to the peaceful resolution of at least half a dozen separate disputes of grave international concern. the situation in ireland today. which periodically erupts into violence and bloodshed. is certainly deserving of less fundamental a solution in the interests of international peace and security. partition was effected in 1920 when 6 of the 9 counties in ulster were separated from the other 26 counties and became thern ireland. the authority under which the united nations could act to hold elections in ireland is found in article 11 of the charter. it states that the general assembly "may discuss any question relating to the maintenance of international peace and security * * * and may make recommendations with regard to any such question to the state or states concerned or to the security council or to both." in addition. article 35 should be invoked. which allows a state to bring a dispute to the attention of the united nations "if it accepts in advance for the purposes of the dispute the obligations of pacific settlement provided in the charter." the text of my resolution is as follows: that it is the sense of the senate of the united states that the maintenance of international peace and security requires settlement of the question of the unification of ireland and that the people of all ireland. including the people of eire and the people of thern ireland. should have a free opportunity to express their will for union and that this be attained by an election of the people of all ireland under the auspices of a united nations commission for ireland. to be designated by the general assembly pursuant to articles 11 and 35 of the charter. which shall establish the terms and conditions of such election.
. judging this matter upon the record of what an ambassador has accomplished and what an ambassador can accomplish in a country like brazil. and considering. as the senator from montana has said. the attractiveness of a personality like that of mrs. luce on a people like the people of brazil. i shall vote to confirm her ination.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point as a part of my remarks an editorial entitled "geneva and mutual security" from the new york times of recent date. an editorial entitled "foreign aid as a whole." from the new york herald tribune of may 28. 1959. and an editorial entitled "the foreign aid revolt." published in the washington post of may 28. 1959.
however. they have  as yet provoked a full scale debate on the senate floor which i believe is urgently required so that our national leaders. the people and our friends and allies abroadupon whom we are  as dependent as they are dependent upon uswill be able to view in clear perspective what is at stake should this 3year cutoff amendment on u.s. foreign aid grants be adopted. i believe it is the very life or death of our mutual security programhing more and hing lessincluding serious jeopardy to the usefulness of the development loan fund. for our loan programs can only operate in certain key countries with an ecoic base which is slowly being built and maintained by fuels. .fertilizers. iron. steel. and other commodities needed for immediate consumption which in large part are  being obtained via u.s. grant aid. the greatest objection to serving ice of a 3year cutoff is that it would give the soviet union our timetable. which is something we try to avoid in our foreign policy. it would be serving ice that the soviet union could operate more effectively in the 32 countries to which we  give defense support and special assistance aid. i can think of more conclusive reason against that proposal than that that fact alone shows that it is definitely the wrong thing to do. there are six reasons why serving ice of a 3year cutoff date for u.s. defense support and special assistancethe core of our grantaid programwill basically jeopardize the u.s. system of mutual security alliances and destroy the very ecoic prerequisites vital to the effective use of loanswith which i thoroughly agreein key developing countries of the free world: first. it will result in a damaging cut in defense forces  organized to defend the free world for reasons unrelated to our total security requirements. second. it will deprive us of a flexibility and freedom of action indispensable to our foreign policya flexibility which is inherent in the communist blocs foreign aid program. third. it will invite effective communist counteraction in the very areas which have been able to survive as part of the free world because of u.s. defense support and special assistance aid. fourth. it will create political chaos in those very countries where governments have undertaken programs of basic ecoic development and are dependent also on defense support or special assistancesuch disruption could pull down governments  friendly to the united states and create political vacuums which would attract communist subversion or aggression. fifth. it will force key underdeveloped countries which must maintain large forces for their own defense to divert their limited resources to this end at the expense of the ecoic improvement and viability essential to their ultimate survival. sixth. it will serve ice that the united states is preparing to stage a retreat from its established foreign policy to a national policy which sacrifices free world defense needs to financial considerations. the alternative is  to keep on ladling out money where it is  deserved. or to be inflexibly tied to any one concept of foreign aid. or to shut our eyes to operating inefficiency or worse. i do  agree with that policy. any more than does the senator from montana. who is one of the most studious. best informed. and most able members of this body. it is a privilege to debate with him. i think both of us may take pardonable pride in the fact that our debate on a somewhat similar situation. the berlin situation. produced some good results in this chamber. the alternative is to tighten up our procedures and our scrutiny of our programs on a countrybycountry and areabyarea basis with the objective of getting as many partners as we canthere are a great many available to us among the nato countriesto handle the commitments both for defense forces and military and ecoic aid and technical assistance. to reduce wherever and as soon as practicable our total foreign aid commitmentsand also to be willing to increase them wherever we must in our overall security interestand to change as much as we can from grants to loans. i also point out that where it is in our security interest to increase our commitments in terms of foreign aid. it is equally our duty to increase them. the soundness of this position was s&uitained on tuesday of this week. first by the action of the house foreign affairs committee when it approved about 90 percent of the presidents authorization request for defense support. for special assistance. and for military assistance. and raised by $100 million the projected outlays for ecoic development loans. second. by the amendment of the senator from arkansas . to which i am a party. seeking $1.500 million a year for the development loan fund for 5 years. and providing for the right to transfer funds. to the extent of 30 percent. between military assistance and other forms of assistance under our mutual security program. but to serve ice on the world that we are retiring from a critical sector of the mutual security effort at a stated period at the end of 3 years is to tie our hands behind our backs in a struggle in which we need to use both of them at all times at the very leastand without telegraphing our punches to the ever alert opposition. i point out again that that is the important deficiency in this proposal. we would telegraph our punches to our opposition. the historic role which the senate traditionally performs in helping to formulate u.s. foreign policy. in solidifying this nations world position. must  be played to the full on the mutual security program by every member of this body. such a debate on foreign aid will . in my opinion. jeopardize the bipartisan support which a majority of senators have given our mutual security program in recent years. rather it has traditionally served to unify and strengthen the senates determination to prevent taking any action which would represent a withdrawal from our essential free world commitments. senator mansfield covered a great deal of ground in his review of our foreign aid efforts and made several points with which i heartily concur. i agree with his praise of our technical assistance program which was originated by former president trumans administration as point 4. and in his recognition of the remarkable potential that an adequately financed development loan fund. originated in president eisenhowers administration. has in helping the newly developing areas of the free world so coveted by the communists. i am  so sure that it is in our security interest to disclose our military allocations to the various countries. our pledge to the american people is to give them every shred of information consistent with the national interest. and we should look into that question. as my colleague suggests. but my experience in the foreign policy field puts me in thorough disagreement with the arguments which go to make up the point of senator mansfields assault on defense support and special assistancea key sector of our mutual security program. directly. he means to wipe out virtually 80 percent of grant aid which is  of a military hardware nature by the beginning of fiscal year 1963. thus cutting off the ecoic lifeblood which keeps alive in the specified developing countries the potential for future growth. anyone who believes that senator mansfield in his speech did hing more than write a eulogy for our technical assistance program and ecoic loans on one hand and an epitaph for our defense support and special assistance grant aid on the other is practicing serious selfdeception. a careful reading and rereading of senator mansfields words reveals that in the final analysis they could sound the death knell for the entire mutual security program by jeopardizing its prime objectsthe security of the very borders of the free world with the communist bloc. for defense support goes so heavily to the very areas nearest to the communist borders and the hardest to defend. let us turn to senator mansfields exact words on defense support and ecoic assistancegiveaway aid he calls itat which this amendment is directed. he said: what will be affected. . i emphasize that we are talking about security. military se-. curity. the bedrock of any foreign policy. and i say that it is  what we think or desire or believeany one of us. matter with how much good will we may havewhich counts in a proposal like that made by the distinguished senator from montana. for a cutoff after 3 years. but how it will be received and accepted by the world in respect of our policy and our intentions. what it will induce our allies to do. what it will induce the oppositionthe soviet union and its blocto do. i believe most sincerely that the worlds reception of it would cause the proposal. if adopted. to prejudice seriously our foreign policy and the cause of the free world without any really commensurable. discernible benefit. i believe that the alternatives which i described when i first began are consistent with the views of the senator from montana and consistent with the continuation of these programs. they should be carried on as the bulwark of american and free world security. i express my gratitude to the leadership on the other side of the aisle for facilitating this time for me. the senator from mississippi. who was here a while ago i do  see him present
. when a young man is able to see as clearly as that his function in connection with his service to our country. it seems to me that in addition to his other attributes and in addition to his very high level of experience. we must recognize that  only has he shown that he has learned that. but also he has shown that he has learned that lesson very well. indeed. i deeply hope that his ination will be confirmed. i believe he will make  only a creditable ambassador. but also an excitingly helpful and inspiring ambassador from the united states to israel. i believe he will serve our cause superbly well. to the satisfaction of all the people of the united states.
does the senator  feel that in adopting such an amendment we would really be going further to tie our hands in the field in which the russians excel us. namely. the field of initiative. and the masking of their designs. does  the senator feel that if we adopted this amendment we would be giving the russians an advantage by reason of a type of rigidity in our program which would only give them a decided advantage in pursuing their own foreign aid program.
. the importance of the private investment aspect to our whole foreign aid program. it  only relieves us of appropriations in terms of foreign aid. but it also brings the whole apparatus of american private ecoy to the fore. both as an example to the leadership in the respective countries and also as a tremendous training ground for technical personnel in the countries in which it operates. it has manifold advantages which all of us recognize. and the question is whether or  we are to include this particular kind of coverage by way of contingencies in the pending bill. what happened in the other body was this: this provision was contained in the bill as reported by the committee of the house. it was stricken out after a relatively brief debate on the floor of the house by action of the house. and i thought. in view of the fact that it had been reiterated constantly that it is considered by the administration to be an important aspect in fortifying and making more useful the guarantees of private investment. and that we  have a provision in this bill which confines the guarantees in the less developed areas. that we ought. as i say. at least to have spelled out on the floor what is really the opposition to this amendment if any exists.
the news of the possible appointment of charles e. bohlen.  serving as ambassador to the philippines. to be special adviser on russian affairs to secretary of state herter merits the strongest kind of bipartisan support by members from both houses of congressand particularly here in the senate where the conduct of u.s. foreign policy as it strives to secure world peace and sustain the independence of the communist nations receives constant attention. ambassador bohlen has been widely ackledged by men of both parties and every shade of political conviction to be one of the authentic experts on communist motives. means. and methods. and after serving for 4 years in moscow as u.s. ambassador to the u.s.s.r.. he retains a unique insight into the machinations of this unpredictable totalitarian regime. if the secretary of state does appoint mr. bohlen to this new post. then mr. herters decision deserves the wholehearted support of this body. every member of which desires the united states to mobilize as modern minutemen in the cold war each citizen who possesses such multiplicity of talents in his field as charles e. bohlen does in his own. as a new yorker. i have always been proud that my state has contributed to the diplomatic life blood of our countrymen of such outstanding caliber as the late secretary of state john foster dulles. who literally gave his life in the service of his country. and charles e. bohlen. who is rounding out three decades of diplomatic service. i regret that i was  a member of this body when he came up for confirmation as ambassador to russia for i most certainly would have voted for him. however. i welcome  the opportunity to endorse heartily his suggested appointment to the new post with secretary of state herter. i am sure there is member of this body who would wish the united states to mobilize anything less than our total strength in the waging of the cold war with the communist countries which may engulf generations yet unborn. ecoic forces such as trade and foreign aid. skilled techogical and scientific manpower. and. above all. deeply kledgeable. experienced. diplomatic brainpower must be continuously marshaled by the united states to enter into this massive competition. it is in this perspective that the contributions already made by ambassador bohlen. and which he can continue to make in the suggested advisory capacity. should be viewed. i hope the secretary of state will  feel in the least inhibited in making the suggested appointment. and i believe that mr. bohlen is the man for the job.
i should like to ask the senator about the relationship this program bears to the special united nations fund for ecoic development which had a good deal of support among the latin american countries in the united nations. and which we opposedi think quite properly. does the senator feel that the establishment of the fund for special operations. which allows loans to be repaid in local latin american currencies. will go a good way toward meeting that part of the views of latin american countries which we felt we should recognize when they were agitating for sunfed.
i have identified myself with the group which is working so hard for the great white fleet idea. i am very happy to identify myself with my colleagues sentiments. of course. as he ks. i feel that the foreign aid program stands on a very different footing. we need it urgently. and i do  believe it should complicate this particular idea. the great white fleet can be made a visible symbol of great significance. as we all k. a picture is worth more than many thousands of words. we are thoroughly convinced that the great white fleet will be emblematic of our solicitude for our fellow men. wherever they may be. and whatever the particular enthrallment in which they are held at the moment. so i am glad to identify myself with my colleagues views on that subject. and i am pleased to have had the opportunity to join him.
yet despite nassers menacing threats against his neighbor. the west is pouring the most lavish assistance into cairo. just about the time he made this speech. the world banks technical mission arrived in egypt to study the suez canal widening. and on july 29. 3 days after president nasser made his speech. we annced that we had provided him with $57 million in u.s. meat and flour which he can purchase with egyptian pounds which are then loaned back to finance and develop the united arab republics industry. i wish to emphasize that i feel deeply that egypt should be helped and decv- 962 veloped. i had hoped very much that all the arab states would cooperate to that end. i have favored. and will continue to favor. the most generous kind of assistance. financial and otherwise. by the united states in furthering those efforts. such efforts do  have to involve israel. either. the mere fact that that region will be prospering as a region is reason egh for the united states to render such assistance. in the interest of world peace. i think it is a serious question whether these activities are justified. if we are to have aher threat to the peace from that area. especially when the threat is based upon factual crisis which justifies it. the action of the united states. of course. is its own. and in my opinion it should be heavily influenced by the degree of cooperation on the part of the united arab repubic and other countries. in terms of maintenance of the principles of the united nations charter. the international bank for reconstruction and development. the world bank. is a specialized agency of the united nations. it makes its own decisions. it is independent. it decides who shall receive its loans. everyone understands that if it decides to make a loan to egypt. withstanding the present saber rattling. that will be its decision. and one will ask the united states to withdraw from the world bank. but the bank. like any other responsible lender. owes some obligations to the international community by which it is sponsored. does the world bank propose to lend large sums to one of its stockholders to improve a waterway which is used in violation of a u.n. decision and in illegal action against other stockholders. i understand the difficulties which are involved. as i stated at the beginning. the difficulty with our foreign policyand. indeed. with the foreign policy of world institutions by the united nationsaid the policy of great establishments for help. like the world bank. is that they raise the question as to whether we look far egh ahead in our own interest. it is very sad to reflect that after 11 years the arabisrael conflict is just as far from solution as it ever was. we have  been able to bring the parties closer together. we can hope to bring about peace and concord between israel and egypt . but we can hope to pursue a consistent policy. which in this area we have already inauguratedin 1956 and 1957. and insisting on respect for international law. our policy has been often criticized for failure of consistency in its application. this is a situation in which such consistency is both practical and needed. hence. on this stepbystep basis we should insist  that illegal restrictions on the use of the suez canal must be lifted and the inge toft case settled. otherwise we can give aid or fail to protest aid proposed by international agencies.
. i wish to speak a word about william a. m. burden. whose ination to be ambassador to belgium was confirmed by the senate today. again. mr. burden is a new yorker with whom i have a personal friendship of very long standing. he is a man who has devoted a great part of his life. as an extremely successful businessman. to the public interest. he is a man of rare tact and discretion. and who has tremendous contacts throughout the world. like ambassador zellerbach. ambassador whitney. ambassador houghton. and other distinguished leaders in industry. of whom we are so properly proud. and who have been appointed to the diplomatic corps. i believe mr. burden will prove to be a real boon and benefit to the united states. i conclude by expressing again the pride of new york in this galaxyand it is that this morningof distinguished new yorkers who have attained. with the gracious consent of the senate. such very high office.
i am very grateful to my colleague from oregon and may i say to him that one of the reasons i admire him so much. and one of the things on which i try to qualify myself is to meet the issues which i myself propose. i think he does this. too. it would be easy to worry me about the fact that my amendment might be construed by my constituents as trying to increase appropriations at a time when i have thousands upon thousands upon thousands of letters to reduce them. the number being equal to the number of population that new york has in excess of that of other states in proportion. i do  believe in being intimidated by things which. in the absence of explanation. might seem wrong to my constituents. but like the senator from oregon. i am perfectly happy. any time i think something is right. to take on the explanation and face it. because that is why the people of my state sent me here.  to take the easy courses out. i have iced that the senator from oregon. like myself. when he is going to spend money. is  afraid to vote appropriations and vote taxes in order to do it. so in this situation i think the easy way out would be to say. "dont touch this $590 million. let it alone." i do  want to increase the amount this year. though i think we are wrong about it. i do  think that is the thing to do. in view of the sentiment of the country. but  to do some forward planning for next year i think is unwise. and i am grateful to my colleague. who is a distinguished member of the foreign relations committee. for putting the matter in focus. . i close upon this e. matter what we may be doing or thinking in this field. we must always bear in mind that we are  doing it free of competition. but. on the contrary. we are meeting the most acute kind of competition from the soviet union and from communist china itself. both of which are engaged in a major way in the foreign aid program. if there is any reason. therefore. which could be more certain than that one for the fact that we should  only proceed alone but tie on other associates with us. it is that. the soviet union foreign aid program is  in the area of about $2 billion. the foreign aid program of communist china is of the magnitude of hundreds of millions. it seems to us that the greatest flattery is emulation. it seems to me that if anything has confirmed the rightness of what we are doing. it is the fact that the communist powers. after derisively laughing at our program. have had to do the same thing. we were the first in the field. and we were the most effective in the field. if we have the good judgment to really swing our weight. i think it can be a decisive factor in the victory for freedom. if we swing less than our weight. it is we who are being unwise and proposing to fight a battle for survival of the most intense kind. with one hand tied behind our backs. i hope the senate will act favorably on my amendment.
what has been done in respect of latinamerica will help very materially. but. as every united nations study and every study by our own committees and experts has demonstrated. we are so far deficient in the amount of capital resources which the world needs to deal with the underdeveloped areas that every way we can increase that amount will mean helping ourselves to keep the world safe for freedom. the proposal i make is exactly the same kind as the interamerican bank. it proposes to get others to contribute too. that is the whole purpose and point of it.
the senator is exactly right. however. the concept is that although we have gotten away from the idea that a senator is elected by the state legislatureand it took a constitutional amendment to provide for the direct election of senatorsthere still persists the argument that when a senator comes from his state he is an ambassador of his state. therefore the process of his coming to the final point of his appointment as ambassador is e of our business. that is a completely artificial premise. the answer is overwhelmingly stated in the classic case. to which my colleague has referred. and to which there have been so many references during the debate. namely. that there is an organic process of electing senators and representatives. part of which is their ination in a primary. and the other part of that organic process is the result. to wit. their coming to the senate. and that. therefore. the primary. just as the general election. is properly susceptible to the action of congress. therefore we are dealing with a question of option. or a question of judgment. if we do include primaries by adopting the amendment. then these particular requirements would be applied to them. we are  obliged to pass every statute that is constitutional. so the argument is answered on two grounds: first. the bill is without question constitutional. second. it is absolutely essential that the bill. if passed. be discriminatory and do what it states to the public it will do. namely. include all elections.  only is the primary an organic element of the process. but it is also in some states the final selection process itself. therefore it seems crystal clear to those of us who support that argument that the amendment must be adopted if the proposed legislation is to be meaningful at all. i thank my colleagues for their patience.
. i also call attention. in the same connection. to the text of a resolution adopted by the united nations subcommittee on prevention of discrimination and protection of miities. which condemned antisemitism and other forms of racial hatred as violations of the charter of the united nations and the universal declaration of human rights. the resolution was proposed by judge philip halpern. a judge of the appellate division of the supreme court of the state of new york. who is a member of the commission. i hail that resolution as putting the united nations into the line of responsibility which it should carry. and i ask unanimous consent that the article to which i have referred be printed in the record at this point as a part of my remarks.
. a bright picture of the friendly relations that exist between canada and the united states was drawn by the hoable richard b..wigglesworth. u.s. ambassador to canada. at the dinner held march 23 by the massena. n.y.. chamber of commerce. ambassador wigglesworth emphasized the growing importance of trade between the united states and canada. and the many ways by which greater understanding and cooperation are constantly being developed in addition to mal diplomatic and consular channels. a pattern of action exists between our two countries which sets an example for the rest of the free world. it shows the way to greater integration of the free world as ecoic and social aims assume mounting importance. i had the ho to serve with ambassador wigglesworth in the house of representatives. i had the ho of visiting him in ottawa. i also had the ho of attending a luncheon given by the distinguished prime minister of the dominion of canada and his cabinet for ambassador wigglesworth and myself. to discuss the relations and interests of our two countries. it is with great pleasure. therefore. that i ed that there was printed in the congressional record of march 31. 1960. an address on canadianamerican relations by hon. richard b. wigglesworth. former representative in congress from massachusetts. and  ambassador from the united states to the dominion of canada.
congress is insisting upon morality and upon the hoing of international commitments. congress is asking our president to do everything he can within his power. and also within cautions. which he has as the head of the foreign relations of the united states. to try to carry them through. as to the language itself. we can well understand that since the house adopted certain language in a manner which is quite as difficult as this one. it would be discerning on the part of the senate to adopt exactly the same language. especially as it refers only to a request. a statement of what we believe should be done. but which the president will consider in the light of the overall national interest. as i explained a moment ago. in view of that consideratior.-in which i deeply feel and hope the chairman and the proponents of the amendment will concur.. so that the legislative history upon that subject will be very cleari think the amendment  suggested by the senator from arkansaswho under the law. i believe. will find full protection for the state department. and all its qualmswould only be compounding an already difficult situation in his own view. this is because his amendment provides--and i quote from line 9that the president is required to determine and make a findingthe word used is "engaged." the president is required to make a finding that nations "are engaged in actions detrimental to united nations efforts to maintain peace and stability." it seems to me that that is exactly the kind of request which congress would  wish to make of the president. because that would embarrass him far more than anything contained in the amendment. therefore. i sum up as follows: the senate and the house have. in strong language. expressed themselves on the sanctity of international covenants and international law. the president has complete discretion in terms of the national interest. as he sees it. over what he can do about that expression. and that even extends to the way in which he will report what he has done under this amendment. yet congress is absolutely right in seeking to have the moral law enforced and in seeking to have international covenants complied with in so important a matter as free transit through a great international waterway. i call the attention of senators to the fact that there is a tyranny  only of strength. there is also tyranny of weakness. that tyranny can be just as damaging. just as harmful. in short. because nasser heads a small power. a country which is  a great military power. that does  mean that he can be a pirate by the very use of his weakness.
those of us who felt that this whole subject should be aired and should be studied realized that we were as a nation embarking on a new course where the free world had to act in a sense unilaterally. doing our utmost to educate and inform the free world. and we are placing greater reliance on the united nations than we have ever had before. what we are doing  between the committees of the senate and the administration is most admirable
he has been the architect of this achievement in his negotiations with the secretary of the treasury. certainly we  have every right to expect the present policy of law. under our declaration of the sense of the senate in connection with the mutual security program. to be applied to every action of the u.s. government in these fields. i should like to close by stating that this must be a very happy day for my colleague the senator from oklahoma. inasmuch as he really pioneered this idea quite a long time ago. and  he is seeing it come to fruition. in addition. he pioneered the idea of employing the technique of putting this agency under the world bank. for administration. that is a most interesting technique. and. indeed. it may be greatly extended. so as to include our countryaid programs. because administration by the world bank has been extremely successful.
 eisenhowers reputation is far greater as a leader of the forces of the world which conquered tyranny in world war ii and as a peace leader in the last 8 years than khrushchev can tear down. and one does  have to engage in an insulting contest with him as to his own record. which will  bear that kind of examination. what will come of this intemperateness and this attempt to scare the world. engaged in by khrushchev and gromykoand let us remember that khrushchev reiterated in his speech the threat to bomb or hurl rockets upon the bases from which any plane flying over the soviet union may have taken offwhat will come from all this is the greater union of the free world. this. i believe. may prove to be the decisive mistake which the communists have made. and the decisive action which will enable the free world to win for freedom. on the very same morning that khrushchev made his completely intemperate attack. we find news reports stating that "britain seeks end of snag on trade." the minister of state for foreign affairs of the british cabinet stated to a meeting of the assembly of the western european union that his governmentand this is officialis  "ready to consider anew the proposal that britain should join euratom and indeed the european coal and steel community." he goes on to say: first we have to k whether we should be welcome. then. since this has  only technical but political significance. we have to k what the effect would be upon the immediate situation. he then goes on to indicate that the immediate situation includes an effort to reconcile and. indeed. get together the european free trade association with the european ecoic community. he assured the assembly of the western european union that these two organizations are "by means irreconcilable." it seems to me that this is really the momentous news. khrushchevs expressions are the fumings of a man who is either calculatedly angry or intemperately angry. or he can control his temper. even in the interest of peace. if this step is taken. if britain enters a unity with the continent of europe. which this news betokens. as the british government is prepared to do. this is a decisive. factual. overwhelmingly important move for the unity of the free world. and a tremendous blow in its victory in this struggle with the communists.
i would like to straighten out the figures given us by the senator from mississippi. because they tie in with what the senator from hawaii has just said. he gave us estimates of 180.000 refugees who were outside of the algerians and under the jurisdiction of the high commissioner for refugees. the reason for that difference is this: the senator from mississippi is talking about refugees in camps. and he has given us a figure of 28.000. but there are 100.000 refugeesand this fact is reported by the u.s. committee on refugees. the zellerbach commission. and the international rescue committeewho are outside of tents. and they are miserable. and they need to have something done about them. this bill does  touch them. then. as to the hard core cases. the tubercular cases. the old. the institutionalized. we have the same problem. they too. are dispersed in the ecoy. they are suffering etheless. they are refugees etheless. but they do  come into the sharply limited and sharply defined category we are talking about. it is odys fault. i am grateful to my colleague for letting us at one time and place put these figures and statements into the record so that we may get an idea of the ambit of the problem.
the other thing which we believe is this. i urge senators to mark me on this. because it is very important. we point out that what is the roadblock to action in this field constantly is the filibusterthe filibuster threatened or actual. when the majority leaderand i feel he is entirely in good faithi shall be the first to say itin everything he said today about his own platform. however he may have voted beforeand there will be lots of argument about that--but i really think he means it when he says he speaks of what the democrats have promised . but he himself had to put a price on the head of civil rights legislation by saying. "if you press this. you will kill everything else." why would it kill everything else. because rule xxii stands there. and because a small miity in the senate has that power. unless we deprive them of it on cloture by a vote of twothirds of the senators present and voting. it gives them power to block everythifig else. it is a power which they do  hesitate to use. a power which they used before even in committee action. as chairmen of committees. quite apart from debate on the floor. it gives them power to kill everything else unless we follow what they want in respect to civil rights. the second thing. therefore. which introducing these bills. with bipartisan sponsorship to make a stand for them here. will do is to focus the attention of the country on what is blocking action i believe to be in the national interest on civil rights. and that is rule xxii as  written.  in february or march. next. but in january. the day the senate gets here. we will have an opportunity to do something about rule xxii. as we did in 1959. when we adopted a miniscule change. a change which i think caused us to fall far short of our responsibility in civil rights. as we saw when the civil rights bill was under debate in the senate this year. unless a head of steam is put behind the proposal to change rule xxii . i assure senators that hing much is likely to happen next january. that is point  2. point  3: we can avert our eyes from the fact that civil rights is longer an issue of the domestic tranquillity of the united states. this is an issue of a most massive international kind. it is an issue very intimately affecting the peace leadership of our country and our countrys stand in the world. if we need any proof. it is found in the unbelievable problem of the 600 million chinese whose skin is yellow. and in the almost equally unbelievable problem of the whole continent of africa. whose people have black skins. and who are in a ferment today. anyone who can pretend that the civil rights issue today is what it was even 2 years ago. or 3 years ago. let alone 10 or 20 years ago. has  kept abreast of the march of history. longer is civil rights a matter of domestic interest and of the actions in particular states of the union. civil rights has  become a major issue of the foreign policy of the united states and of the leadership and prestige of the united states. therefore. i think it is right to rank it with the prime issues before our country. the majority leader. when i was questioning him a while ago. implied that this was my one particular interest. my primary interest. i think i k a little aboutalthough i do  k all i should likeforeign ecoic policy. also the united nations and the federations and alliances with which the united states is concerned. my interest also is in civil liberties and in a host of other matters including constitutional and international law. but i will state with pride that civil rights is certainly one of the main issues with which i am concerned. because. for the reasons i have just stated. civil rights has become an emous foreign policy issue in addition to a great constitutional issue. so we  have three reasons why what is being done should be done. first. and very importantly. is the fact that it puts the proposals in legislative form. second. and very importantly. we focus attention upon the urgent need for a change in rule xxii. third. and very importantly. because this is one of the towering issues of our time. and even if we would like to wait. the times will  wait. fourth. and very importantly. we have this situation. it is a fact that a number of the items which are contained in the civil rights proposals have been thoroughly debated and thoroughly reviewed. they have been thoroughly considered. they were urgently needed but were omitted from the civil rights package which was passed earlier this year only because of the threat of a filibuster and the need. therefore. to trim down the package so that it would be acceptable. at least. it was felt that the certain senators who were against civil rights might  vote for it. but they might  think it was worth filibustering in order to kill the bill altogether. since that time. there have been two great conclaves of the political parties. in those two great national conclaves of the parties. civil rights was perhaps the primary issuecertainly. one of a very few primary issues. in both instances. the conventions came forth with declarations supporting.  the position which succeeded in congress. but supporting the position which failed here. we can then  fail. in considering a legislative program during the continuation of the previous session of congress. at least to raise the issue. when we have the opportunity of at least repairing what we should have done. but did  do. this part which was already up in 1960 has all been thoroughly debated and thoroughly reviewed by whatever factual data and testimony there needed to be taken on the subject earlier in the session. therefore it can be acted on. . i think it would be unrealistic to suppose that this can and should  be done. as to the charges of partisanship. i think it will prove to be the case. very possibly and unhappily. that we will have considerable defections on this side of the aisle. too. when it comes to a cloture motion or comes to having civil rights tests. just as there are bound to be defections on the other side of the aisle even in addition to the builtin opposition of certain democratic senators traditionally opposed to civil rights laws. the way to take partisanship out of civil rights is to do something about it. the way to inject partisanship into civil rights is to do hing or to beg the question. the senate is comprised of 100 members. only 22 senators come from southern states. if our platforms mean what they say. we can. without any unfairness. on at least two items which the president asks for and which have been thoroughly considered and debated in this body. vote cloture in an aftern. if we mean what we say. we can vote a civil rights bill. or we can vote for bill or put a price on the head of a civil rights bill. we are faced with an emous international issue. an issue which has taken up an emous amount of time. and which has focused attention in both national conventions. we are in a position to do something about it without any unfairness and without adventuring into new ground. we can deal  at least with matters which have been established. debated. and thoroughly considered. i think at the very least senators should try to do something about it. i ice that the senator from south carolina is about to leave the chamber. i would  wish to deprive him of his opportunity to question me.
. we are coming to a new era in american relationships with the other american republics. we have gone through the gunboat policy. landing marines. we have gone through the good neighbor policy. we are  coming to the policy of regional alliance. this bill is a recognition of the maturity of these countries and of the maturity of our own point of view with respect to them. certainly it is general in nature. however. i close upon this point. are there  many senators who constantly complain that our diplomacy is  resourceful egh. that it is  quick egh. that it is  "on the ball" egh. that it is  flexible egh in order to meet the challenges which face us today in this world.  that we have an example of resourcefulness. of speed. of flexibility. and of putting our negotiator in the best and  the worst position. we suddenly become very cautious and very careful. we want a full bill of particulars. even though there is appropriation bill. and we are  going to let them do it. it seems to me the very ones who complain about alacrity and skill and equipping our negotiators properly should be the first to jump at this kind of opportunity in this kind of tough situation. i believe we ought to compliment the entire committee on foreign relations. and our confidence in the foreign relations committee should be restored. it unanimously voted to report this bill. i shall support it as a step in the highest national interest of our country.
 of the new york stock exchange. mr. keith funston. "wall street: myth and reality." by the ed investment banker. john m. schiff. and "modern venture capitalism." by the hoable john hay whitney. presently our ambassador to great britain. i would also like to congratulate the members of the investment association. for their fine work in making these articles available to the public. i ask unanimous consent that the articles may be printed in the record as a part of my remarks.
. i desire to make a statement with respect to the ination of mr. james j. wadsworth to be the representative of the united states to the general assembly of the united nations and to the security council. he is one of new yorks most distinguished citizens and is the son of former senator and former representative wadsworth. he is a man of whom we are all very proud.
i am grateful to the senator from texas for his statement. ambassador wadsworths father served with me in the house. i could  let this moment. which is such a great one in his sons life. go by without saying a word about his father. i think both the senator from texas and i. and many other senators. can well imagine the pride with which ambassador wadsworths father. senator. then representative. wadsworth would have ed and greeted such a very high level appointment as this. it is very significant that this career man. as i think he may properly be called. has been serving our country in the field of disarmament. i believe that is very significant. when we consider the importance of this effort in the united nations.
it seems to me what the senator from tennessee has said. with all due apology to him. is  very realistic. because the vice president of the united states is the second highest official of our government. president roosevelt did  hesitate to make someone a special ambassador. he selected harry hopkins. who was  even a vice president. and gave him vast power and influence. and quite properly. because he had confidence in him and he was the presidents representative. i think what is more important. frankly. with respect to what the senator is saying is how he thinks this very trying situation in the near east can be dealt with. i do  think any briefs need to be drawn for henry cabot lodge. i think. for example. in developing the formula by which the relations between israel and the argentine were dealt with in the united nations on the eichmann case he avoided one of the most sticky and thorny diplomatic difficulties which could have faced us in that area of the world. there is magic about that area. as senators who have been there k. this is one of the toughest and most difficult bits of hostility which we have on earth. it is very deeply built in. and it has resisted the power of the entire united nations. let alone an individual. even the president of the united states. finally. let us be a little concerned about how much time and how much heart and how much effort any president has. whether he be nixon or kennedy. this is an unbelievably difficult and complex job. and i do  think it is a bit demeaning to this area. on the contrary. i think it would put our actions on a higher level than ever if the problem were entrusted to a man who has the high office of vice president and it was made a very major cause of his concern. which it could hardly be with the president of the united states without his neglecting a great many other vital duties. i hope. whether the next president is
i can conceivably agree with the use of the word "downgrading." i think it is most unfair to the office. to the proposal as it was made. and even to the man in question. who is our ambassador to the united nations. i sincerely hope that the senator from tennessee does  feel that way. if he does. then it is just too bad. i could  possibly agree with him.
i recall with the greatest of interest and with some quickening of pulse the fact that when the policy on cuba was annced by president eisenhower and secretary herter some months ago the senator from oregon. the chairman of the subcommittee of the committee on foreign relations which deals with this area. arose and with. i think. very commendable statesmanship. because he had been a strong critic of the president. commended this expression of policy. as i recall. the senator from oregon was especially pleased with the idea advanced in the policy that we would move in coordination with the other american states and would utilize the machinery of the organization of american states to the full. i feel. as does the senator. about what has occurred. that it is almost impossible for us sitting here. without kledge on the spot. to assess the validity or the invalidity of the rather drastic action which was taken. there are two points. as to which i should deeply appreciate the senators comments. first. we. too. have a right to use our own techniques in order to call upon the outraged conscience of the world. as it were. if the way to do that is to break diplomatic relations. then within the context of modern times it may  have quite the implications it had in other days. the question i should like to ask the senator from oregon is whether he would feel with me. that we ought to. at the earliest possible moment. repair to the forum of the organization of american states in the effort to at least try to concert a policy with them in order to pursue this line of policy. which. as i recall. the senator so much approved when it was annced some months ago.
. i wish to say a word about the ination of mr. george w. ball to be under secretary of state for ecoic affairs. by way of emphasizing to the senate the critically important nature of this office and the great expectations which many people hold. that george ball may carry on in the very distinguished tradition of douglas dillon. whom he is succeeding in this critically important office. and to highlight the fact that what will be before us and whatmr. ball will be called upon to deal with immediately is the ratification by the senate of the treaty for the organization of ecoic cooperation and development. in that regard i point out that withstanding all the talk about initiative in terms of foreign policy in the eisenhower administration and the administration that preceded it. the oecd represents one of the most distinguished of our foreign policy initiatives ever taken in this country. with the purpose and the form of the organization far greater than the size and aggregate ecoic power of the whole atlantic community. aggregating almost $1 billion in productive power. infinitely outshining the communist bloc. this initiative was the initiative of the previous administration. carried through by secretary of state herter and under secretary of state dillon. mr. ball will  have. i think. the great privilege and ho of carrying that program through to completion. i make these remarks only to emphasize the critical nature of the mission. and the fact that the baton is being passed from one administration to the next on so important a matter as this. and it is being passed in terms of the country. regardless of party. from one very outstanding man to aher very outstanding man.
. i should like to make an observation about the recent arrival in the united states of ambassador ogden r. reid of new york from israel. it will be remembered that in may 1959. when his appointment was being considered by the senate. ogden r. reid was one of our youngest envoys. and his ination received rather close scrutiny. he was given a most searching and critical examination as to his qualifications. it is therefore with great pride that i report that he served his ambassadorship with distinction and dignity. he has made solid friends for us by his ability and understanding. when he left israel he was accompanied by many moving tributes in the israel press. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed at this point in my remarks quotations from davar and herut. as well as a general summary from the israeli home service. with respect to observations made about ambassador reid on his departure from israel.
i simply wish to add my own endorsement to what the senator has said. i join in congratulating ambassador whitney. who is a personal friend of mine. as many senators k. and who i k from my personal experience has made one of the most outstanding records any ambassador to the court of st. james has made.
. francis t. p. plimpton. whose ination is being considered. as a deputy representative of the united states to the united nations and the representative to the general assembly. is a very old friend of mine. and a colleague of the new york bar. due to yesterdays fog in new york. i did  get the opportunity to come down and introduce him to the foreign relations committee until after his hearing was over. i wish to state to the senate the outstanding position which mr. plimpton holds in the life of new york. as a civic leader and as a responsible and very highly placed lawyer. he is a man who. by virtue of his deep interest in foreign affairs. his extensive study of the subject. and the work he has done on it for most of his adult life. should make a very outstanding representative. i am delighted to see this high preferment come to so distinguished a new yorker. and. i might say personally. such a close friend of mine.
. the celebration. on march 15. of the 113th anniversary of the hungarian revolution of 1848 presents anew the opportunity to salute the embattled people of hungary. a few minutes ago we heard the eloquent prayer delivered by msgr. b6la varga. who commented on that event. they have fought with undiminished courage for their freedom and independence. in spite of oppressive rulers and crushing defeats. today. oppression by a small ruling clique. which is supported by the armed might of soviet troops. is the order of the day in hungary. the united nations general assembly has. since 1956. adopted 12 resolutions condemning the soviet union for its brutal suppression of the hungarian peoples revolt. and demanding that soviet troops be withdrawn and that free elections be held under international control. the soviet union has defied these united nations resolutions. but. despite the fact that they can be enforced. the kledge that the hungarian situation is regularly discussed in the general assembly of the united nations helps to keep alive the spirit of resistance of the hungarian people and are a warning to the newly developing countries of asia and africa of the true aims of the soviet union. lurking behind the demagogic and deceitful slogans it employs. the freedom of hungary is a touchstone of our fight for free world security. i will do all i canand so will. i k. millions of othersto help the hungarian people and other captive peoples held by communism to keep bright and clear the spirit of their ultimate freedom and independence.
i believe the senator from new hampshire is absolutely correct in urging that the united nations at our behest. if otherand i am sure there will be othersretain on its agenda the hungary and tibet items but i am  blind to the factand i do  think the american people should bethat we are dealing in an area in which each of the parties must play its own game to the full. if it does . it will be defeated. the russians are  letting up in laos. the congo. berlin. algeria. or latin america. they are riding every horse that suits them and fits their case. it seems to me the affront to civilized man and the whole moral tone of the world represented by the terrors in hungary and tibet represent our case. this result is what people who think they can find an easy way to development through the russian system are going to run into themselves in terms of repression. therefore. we should press our case. i do  see in what manner that kind of dignity and starch in ones backbone would interfere with coming to an accommodation with the russians in geneva on atomic testing or any other issue. if they wish to accommodate. i think the point that the senator from new hampshire properly makes. one which is implied in everything that he has said. is that the russians will  wish to accommodate unless we try our case in the world forum as actively as they do.
i do  believe it is a paradox. and i do  believe it is an error. these broad generalizations will  hold up. i have in mind the standard of living and the conditions with which we must deal abroad. they are totally different  only as between ourselves and the foreign countries. but also as between these foreign countries themselves. if we try to go into generalizations in this respect we will never have a depressed area bill or a foreign aid program. we must approach this subject on a casetocase basis. that is the only way we can get an effective result. supplying of machinery and equipment under the foreign aid program was an aspect of the reconstruction of ecoies abroad which had been very heavily destroyed or damaged by war. that included machinery and equipment. furthermore. i believe  there is longer any necessity to supply this form of aid to these industrial countries which have been made whole. and that  we may be supplying. either directly or indirectly. machinery and equipment to countries in lessdeveloped areas. but which have conditions  even remotely resembling those which occur within a state with the lowest per capita income. which is going to be helped in the pending bill. i have already given my reasons for a very deep conviction. after hearing all the testimony. and as a friend of the bill. that this provision will distort the competitive picture.
. on behalf of myself. the senator from connecticut . my colleague. the junior senator from new york . and the senator from california . i submit a resolution (s. res. 109) expressing the sense of the senate that the people of all ireland should have an opportunity to express their will for union by an election under the auspices of a united nations commission. this is a resolution i have sponsored for many years. and is particularly appropriate in view of the observance of st. patricks day tomorrow. i believe the resolution expresses the feeling of many americans on this subject. what better way is there to solve the problem than by giving all the people of ireland an opportunity to choose their own form of government. plebiscites held in the past under league of nations or united nations auspices have been successful in peacefully solving international disputes. the doctrine of selfdetermination is a basic free world tenet. it is time we applied it to the irish unification problem
. i deeply believe americans will salute the courage of the 10 heads of government of the british commonwealth of nations while they view with regret the withdrawal of the union of south africa from the .commonwealth south african governments stubborn adherence to the practice of apartheid. : history will record this courageous devotion -of the other commonwealth nations -to the principle of equality of the races. it is a moment of crisis for the commonwealth. a moment when i hope the u.s. government will assure the other commonwealth members--india. pakistan. ceylon. ghana. malaya. nigeria. cyprus. canada. australia. and new zealandof our backing and support. the moral cement which binds the commonwealth together on this issue is also the moral cement essential to bind the free world together. and it is the integration of the free world morally. as well as ecoically. politically. and culturally. that will bring about ultimately the decisive victory of freedom over all forms of totalitarianism. of which communism is the current manifestation. nations like individuals have their faults and inconsistencies. and it would be difficult for any nation or group of nations to marshal evidence of a wholly consistent record of obedience to the high principles of equality before the law. but when morality is demonstrated in an hour of great and historic trial. it has a historic validity and establishes the character of nations. it is in this perspective that we must judge and highly approve the action of our colleagues. the other commonwealth nations. in the struggle for freedom.
 i ask my final question. i am looking for the majority leader. who was present a moment ago. as i understand. the question of whether or  there should be an ambassador to the oecd. in view of the importance of the organization. of the same type and nature as the ambassador to nato. whom we have already appointed. is a question which has  yet been decided. i ask  whether the committee has expressed any view or has any view upon that question. in view of the fact that the oeec. to which the oecd will be the successor. is an organization in which we had a minister who served subordinate to and as a part of the staff of the ambassador to nato. if we are to make the oecd a powerful organization. in terms of the ultimate effect. in order that our representative may be able to agree on what is being talked about. i feel there should be an ambassador of equal rank to mr. finletter. i should like to k whether the committee has given thought to that question.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record. as a part of my remarks. and as bearing out my view on this point. a table entitled "japans trade with oecd countries." the figures in the table are set forth both in absolute dollar terms and by area distribution. the table will illustrate aher one of the things we can accomplish in connection with the matters i have been discussing.
 of the united states. a grave and serious action already taken in one committee of the united nations. to be taken in aher. and to be taken in the united nations general assembly. we should make clear. with all the moral and diplomatic force we have. that we are against apartheid  only because it is morally and legally wrong. but also because it is a threat to the peace of the world.
 in his message. administration of such a program can take place through the existing regional agencies and organizations. which have nearly all of the american republics as members. and which are already slated to carry out the declarations of the act of bogotd. leading among these organizations is the interamerican development bank. with $450 million from the united states. and an aggregate of $1 billion. and to which most of the sister american republics  adhere. a most vital aspect of this proposal includes also the cooperation of the private ecoic systems of the western european countries in the oecdthe united states. canada. and japan. which was here represented through its membership in the development assistance committee. private investment has been. and will continue to be. an integral and essential element of latin american development. and the technical assistance resources of these private ecoic systemswhen added to the technical assistance resources of their governments--can tremendously enhance the chances for success of the "alliance for progress." in short. i suggest that the governments of the prospective members of the oecd. in cooperation with the private ecoic systems concerned. undertake an initiative comparable in importance to the initiative undertaken through the marshall plan for western europethis time for the development of latin america. i address myself to this subject because i have a rather special interest in regard to the cooperative positions of our european friends and allies. it will be my purpose to submit this proposal to the next meeting of the nato parliamentarians ecoic committee. of which i have the ho to be the chairman. for their consideration in enlisting the prospective members of the oecd to undertake this effort. let us remember that threefourths of the nations of the new oecd are members of nato. i consider this committee especially qualified to take such initiative. since it has proven to be one of the primary centers of activity leading to the establishment of the oecd and of the new concept in cooperative development assistance for the benefit of the lessdeveloped areas of the free world. the program which i shall place before the committee can be undertaken by nato itself. because nato is  an operating organization in the field of development assistance. but planning to meet the urgent ecoic development problems in latin america can await the time when the oecd becomes fully operational. and therefore. cooperative action should be discussed . within existing organization structures. when the oecd is ready to become active. its facilities for cooperative action should give top priority to latin american development. a pivotal role in this plan could be played by puerto rico. which is itself located in latin america. the ecoic success and prestige of puerto rico in latin america could be integrated and be utilized fully in such a cooperative effort. all americans hail with great pleasure the fact that the citizens of puerto rico are represented by an assistant secretary in our state department and in the new ambassador to venezuela. there are two final points i should like to discuss in this respect. the requirements for latin american ecoic development break down into two categories: first. the need for public loans and grants. and second. the need to provide an expanding market for latinamerican exports. which is at least equally important.
 of the american red cross. general gruenther. the ambassador from the german federal republic to the united states. dr. wilhelm grewe. and the u.s. ambassador to the german federal republic. mr. j. walter dowling. the luncheon was marked by magnificent addresses delivered by chancellor adenauer. foreign minister von brenta and by many- of our colleagues. and was most graciously presided over by the senator from connecticut . i think the luncheon will go far. in view of the character of the audience and the nature of the addresses. to signalize the close relationship between the german federal republic and the united states in the interests of freedom and in the defense of freedom. coming at a time when the world has a new degree of curiosity about the new germany and its role in the pursuit of freedom and in the integration of europe for ecoic. political. and governmental purposes. it was a most significant occasion. for which we are all most grateful. in due course. either i or one of my cohosts will place in the record the text of the remarks which were made at the luncheon. for the present. i only express my gratification. without commenting upon the fine influence i believe the gathering will have on our relations abroad.  only with the people of germany. but also with the people of europe and the rest of the free world.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record as a part of my remarks a news statement published in the new york times. which shows that the communists are giving us very hot competition in foreign aid. this fact bears very materially upon what we shall do with regard to our foreign aid program. which will be one of the most contested of all programs to come before the senate this year. the communists are giving away about a billion dollars in ecoic aid this year. let those who are deeply concerned about the size of our foreign aid program ponder that situation before they come to a final conclusion.
. it is my intention. when we consider the foreign aid bill. to offer an amendment to the bill which would carry out the concept of introducing the whole private enterprise system into management of the foreign aid program and cementing what is. in such a statesmanlike way. put before us by mr. rathbonethe idea that we can win this struggle unless business as well as government realizes there must be a cooperative enterprise.
simply to complete this thought. points 1 and 2 were that we would negotiate what is negotiable. and second. see to our military strength as an actuality.  simply in words. the third point relates to the success of the longterm foreign aid program. i join with the senator from kentucky and pledge my support for the longterm concept of foreign aid. i join him in urging the administration  to compromise us out of what will make that program really effective. i served 8 years as a member of the house committee on foreign affairs. incidentally. the distinguished majority leader is a former member of that committee and served with me on it. we have seen the validity of this concept. let us  compromise ourselves out of it in a time of such grave emergency. let us have faith that congress is over 21 and can see its duty in the proper lightif the matter is put before us in the proper lightwith the right strength.
. foreign aid is one of our countrys most important means in winning the underdeveloped regions of the world to the side of freedom. it is the means by which we take the offensive against communism. it is our initiative for a breakthrough for freedom. there are great moral as well as strategic implications in our foreign aid program. and it is to these values that hundreds of the nations religious leaders have addressed themselves in anncing their support for the foreign aid program. i ask unanimous consent to include in my remarks a statement issued on july 31 by warren lee pierson. chairman of the citizens committee for international development. together with the statements of the group from each great religious faith. signed by 257 protestant. catholic. and jewish clergymen and lay leaders.
the senator has made my two points. which are. first. that the authorization is  a promise or a commitment. but it can be and is actually cut very materially. second. the authorization is often cut even if it is made at practically the same time as the appropriation. which is an even further indication that commitment is involved. the senator and i sat here. either at the end of the last session of the congress or the one before. when on the very last day of the session we were equally disappointed. i think the conference met for 2 hours. it slashed to ribbons the foreign aid authorization. and the senate conferees came back and said. "you can take it or leave it. if you leave it. you will have to sit here for aher 2 or 3 weeks." such action is commitment. and that is  the basis upon which any longrange program can be conducted. i repeat my argument. it is the wisdom of men to profit by the experience of the pastand the fact is that the one program to which we devoted a massive sum of money over a period of years to one foreign aid target is the one instance of the signal success of our foreign aid program. we are at least entitled to say. "profiting from that experience. you can throw this idea out of the window and say it does  make any sense. because the only time foreign aid"-as so many argue. and i argued-"worked the best was when we did it precisely this way." the senator from south dakota may tell me that we appropriated annually. we did. that was the dynamics of the program. but in the sum total of experience. the fact is that we directed a bulk sum of money over a modest period of time at a given target. and that plan worked. let us adopt that method again. i think the burden is upon those who would say. "do  let us follow that experience. withstanding the fact that it was the one real good one we had. congress is having its power usurped. it is giving up effective control." i shall next argue specifically the question as to whether we would give up effective control. and whether our power is being usurped.
i should like to point out to the senator that we are trying to find aher way. because the proponents of foreign aid say the program has  worked out. that it has been a failure. so we say. let us find out why it has  worked. and find aher way. of course i do  agree with the view that it has  worked. or that it has  been effective. as it is argued by the opponents. however. let us find out why it was most effective in the marshall plan. and do the same thing again. that is what we propose. that is true especiallyand this is extremely importantbecause congressional control is  lost but. on the contrary. will be extremely effective.
madam presidentfor i see we  have a new presiding officerit seems to me also very clear from the history of congress that congress does  very easily allow its powers to be usurped. as the senator from kentucky has only recently pointed out. congress has hesitancy in including in appropriation bills and in other bills provisions which it feels will be adequate in order to deal with any threatened or attempted usurpation of congressional power. so i do  think the question of effective control is really at issue. for congress has effective control. i think the question at issue is whether it is more conducive to the success of a foreign aid program to have such a 5year provision included in the bill. rather than  to have it included. i deeply believe that the case in favor of the inclusion of such a provision is crystal clear from the history of the marshall plan.  i wish to make one other point who. i k. wishes to speak on this very point. the fact is that today we have competition from the soviet union. which  is going into the foreign aid business to the extent of an estimated up to $2 billion per year. by means of an aid program analogous to our own. and we  also have competition from communist chinacompetition which is  in any way tied up. as regard longterm commitments. to other countries in the way in which we are. under our authorization and appropriation procedure. both from the point of view of the substantive success which history shows we seek by means of the foreign aid program and in order to meet the competition with which we are  newly and keenly faced. and in view of the fact that by means shall we lose effective control. i respectfully submit that the 5year provision will give us what we need to have in order to have an effective program. and it will  deprive the congress of anything it has had before in the way of protection. madam president. i should like to close on this e: i think we had better keep our eyes clearly "on the ball." aside from all the arguments about effective control. in terms of oversight and finance committees--and i would be in favor of a joint ad hoc committee for the purpose of giving oversight. as we provided for in connection with the marshall plan. and i may propose an amendment to that effectand aside from the current technique and the other techniques provided in the bill. the important point is to provide for action under the 5year borrowing authority. the important question is how to make really longterm commitments for foreign aid. on which reliance can be placed in making plans. because that is demonstrably the way to make a foreign aid program succeed. that is why i favor this provision of the bill.
i remained for a while. since the senator was kept waiting. i was anxious to state to the senator what i shall  state. we who are going to back this provision of the bill are a relatively small band on this side of the aisle. we are likely to prove to be a very important and critical small band in regard to the vote. i must say that personally i welcome the senators position. and find therein deep gratification and confirmation of my own position. he has a longstanding record of being one of the most enlightened public servants in our country. what he is stating as his view typifies this position. does the senator feel. as i do. in view of the fact that there will be fundamental congressional control. except that congress will have to be selfactivating. as the senator says. a very few members of congress will  be given rather heavy powers over the rest of us through their positions on committees. the issue of congressional control is an illusory issue. the real issue is whether one is for or against a substantial. major commitment in the foreign aid field. over a period of years. which will provide the amount of time required for the purpose of using the aid the most advantageously in order to meet the needs of the free world and the competition of the communists. both in red china and in the soviet union. does the senator agree with me that is the issue. rather than congressional control.
i think the argument which the senator is making illustrates the real point of the amendments. and the difference. and why i think the dirksen amendment is a better amendment. obviously. if -congress is going to be a watchdog. so that we can catch the bad ones. the sleepers. .and so on. then there should be restriction. as the senator says. arguments are made around the congress quite often about the foreign aid program and the excesses in which people have engaged. and often the cases cited do  involve great sums of money. nevertheless. these are the cases which have very materially shaken the faith of the people in the administration of the program on previous occasions. this amendment is an advantage. on the other hand. if we are going to have a technique by which nne house or the other can turn every loan down. obviously a whole body -of evidence can be submitted on a great many loans. because it would be indigestible. it would  make possible any kind of efficient administration. from my point of view the congress may give itself less immediate power and the necessity for acting more delibercvii 991 ately through a concurrent resolution i raise the question. if the byrd than by having a majority of each house amendment had prevailed. would the turn a project down. but by doing that it senator have thought it necessary to deprives the congress of its real watch- provide increased staff. dog function. which is to take a good mr. dirksen. under any circumlooksee at everything which happens. stances. whether -the byrd amendment bearing in mind what the senator from prevailed or . i believe this is necesarkansas himself has sary. i believe a lack of proper staff said. that the appropriations committee has been one of the weaknesses in the can do as much by hollering as by pass- whole senatorial structure. when we ing concurrent resolutions. this is all are dealing with projects so far afield the more reason for making formal ac- that we do  have the necessary evaltion as unnecessary as possible and for uation to keep the senators advised. it getting the maximum information pos- makes solutions to problems very diffisible. cult. i remind my colleague that his amend- mr. bush. the authorization for all ment calls for a considerable amount of the projects -has come from the commitskilled personnel. which may turn out tee on foreign relations and from the to be the most important element of the committee on foreign affairs. i iced whole oversight function. in the perfecting amendment of the
i should like to state what i have said before. i am sure it bears reiteration. the senators initiative with respect to ida was one of the very interesting aspects of how ideas can develop here and become great and important ventures in our foreign policy. we have had other examples. without regard to party. on both sides of the aisle. we all remember the late senator vandenberg as the father of nato. for example. i am glad the senator has brought this amendment before the senate. i k it will be acceptable. and i am glad it is acceptable. it is the other side of my coin. the amendment with respect to private enterprise. we must use as many new techniques as possible. the idea of using the skilled staff of the world bank is a critically important technique which will contribute to the efficiency and success of the program. i merely wanted the senator to k my view.
i wish to call attention to a most important factual analysis of berlin which was published in the new york times yesterday. the senator from tennessee has spoken of the eloquent words of the vice president. and i wish to join with him in congratulating the vice president. that tradition has always been maintained in this chamber. the vice president has rendered extraordinarily fine service in representing our country creditably in such tense incidents as those which are  taking place in berlin. i should like to add to that statement that underlying the situation respecting berlin are also hard facts. the very interesting analysis of berlin. published in yesterdays new york times. contains a detail of berlins ecoy as it bears upon the position of berliners in fighting for their freedom. the article demonstrates that berlin  has become the largest german industrial center and fashion center. as well as a great manufacturing center. the value of west berlins product this year. in industry alone. will be more than $2.613.150.000. second. the article states that business between east berlin and west berlin is infinitesimal. whereas west berlin does 80 percent of its business with west germany. it does only about 1 percent of its business with east germany. third. the article shows why berliners have been so strongly opposed to the free city concept. it is. they say. because the east berliners wish to reorient their whole commercial relationship. so that it will move east. instead of west. this would put the city in a deep depression. even if the move succeeded. because it would take years to carry out the program. i think this statement gives us the rockbottom basis ir fact as well as the strong feeling we have concerning policy and diplomacy. and the strong feeling of sentiment toward maintaining the agreements to which vice president johnson gave voice over the weekend. i should like to add my tribute in ackledgment of the able service rendered by gen. lucius clay. who accompanied vice president johnson. and who is an outstanding expert in this field. i am certain his presence was most helpful. also. i believe ambassador boland and our foreign service officers should be paid a tribute for the competence and excellence of their assistance.
as we live in this chamber. and as experience has shown. in order to get anything done on any issue. it is necessary to move within the frame of reference when that issue is pertinent to what senators are thinking about and what they expect to act upon. the senator from arkansas may  have been in the chamber at the moment. but in my affirmative remarks a little while ago. i made it very clear that even in so informal a way as fixing a date. which obviously the majority leader could  control.  would i expect him to. when senators could bring up an amendment of a civil rights nature by way of a bill. by tacit approval. placed on the calendar. this was done. and actually resulted in a civil rights law. it is the same in this case. we all k that if i tried to bring up a civil rights measure on a foreign aid authorization bill or on some other bill on the calendar. immediately deep concern would be expressed. it would be asked. "why suddenly bring this very hot. highly debatable issue up. an issue which will take days and days. weeks and weeks. to debate. when there is reason for intruding on this bill or that bill. even if it is a private immigration bill." so all of us k it is necessary to wait until the door is opened by the leadership. in connection with a particular subject. before one can hope to get a hearing or to get serious consideration of the subject. and this is the first time at this session that the leadershipthe leadership on both sides. incidentallyhas brought up any matter in relation to civil rights. so unless one puts forward ones ideas on the subject at this time. they are very unlikely to get a hearing at this session.
i ask the senator from new york if he would have any objection to my asking unanimous consent that there appear in the record immediately following the telegram to which the senator has referred the original telegram from gover rockefeller to members of the house. because i think. as a matter of evidence. they ought to be read together. i think gover rockefellers purpose is certainly sincere. and is certainly in aid of the foreign aid program of the united states. in which. for many years back. as he mentioned in his own telegram. he has been a great servant. so i think if the whole body of evidence of both telegrams might appear in the record together. it would be helpful.
. i am grateful to the distinguished senator from kentucky. who speaks from his extensive personal experience as our former ambassador to india. and to the distinguished senator from oregon . who speaks also from wide experience as the chairman of the subcommittee on latin american affairs of the committee on foreign relations. i feel much sustained in my position by this caliber of support.
i think that is very important. because the united nations has done much. especially in the field which i k was in the mind of the committee. as it was in my mind. involving the conflict between the arab states and israel. i say to my colleaguei hope with the indulgence of my friend from oregonthat i think the conferees have submitted a conference report which. considering the exigencies they faced. is so reasonably in balance that it ought to be acceptable to the senate. finally. even in connection with the provision as to which i really had doubts and grave concerns. as many members to whom i talked k. i think the conferees finally arrived at probably as good a catechism as could be worked out. i wished to be sure. from my questioning. first. that it was precise as to an understanding of the organs of international cooperation involved. and. second. that the eloquent call to principle contained in the declaration was something which really was understood by the world to be a pronced and definite american policy  diluted by other words in the document.
 an opportunity to do a truly effective job in the foreign aid field. and will go far in what he will be able to do in terms of the impact of our technical assistance and the participation of private ecoic systems of the whole free world. at least we are making a start in the right direction. so i shall support the conference report.
. i. too. rise this morning to make some reference to the very serious situation which developed in the congo. first. let us understand the legal basis upon which the united nations proceeded. on february 21 of this year the security council. in a resolution endorsed by the general assembly. resolved as follows: 1. urges the united nations to take immediately all appropriate measures to prevent the occurrence of civil war in the congo. including arrangements for ceasefires. the halting of all military operations. the prevention of clashes. and the use of force. if necessary. in the last resort. 2. urges that measures be taken for the immediate withdrawal and evacuation from the congo of all belgian and other foreign military and paramilitary personnel and political advisers  under the united nations command. and mercenaries. this is a tremendous question for the world and for the u.n.. because there is agency of the rule of law in the world other than the u.n.. and its constituent international court of justice. if there was. as apparently there was. a situation of anarchy threatening in the congo. with the apparent inability of the congolese to regulate their own affairs. and with a rightist force. if one wishes to call the tshombes forces that. in katanga. and a rival. at least leftwing. force in stanleyville. then the materials for aher spain were present. it is very desirable. in the affairs of the world. that there be an element of the rule of law and a police force in which the world can have confidence. this is a very new concept. there are agencies like executive and legislative agencies to function in matters of this kind. so the united nations has launched itself on a path of great purpose and also of great danger to its effectiveness. it is conceivable that there might be some form of united nations custodianship for a situation as anarchic as that in the congobut. the organization had better  get away too far from its members. so i suggest the following. as i think the points made by the senator from ohio and the senator from connecticut are very well taken. and as occurrences of the greatest moment can happen under our very eyes. without our being aware of the vast implications which they hold for all of us. i should like to draw attention to the comments of my colleagues with respect to infiltration in this very field. to the danger to the united nations and the danger with respect to the question of adherence by the nations of the world to the u.n.
i thank the senator. i suggest. therefore. that our government consider very seriously an early stimulating. and initiating. if need be. of consideration of what is taking place in the congo on the part of the u.n. forces there. at least by the general assembly. so that the mandate to the secretary generaland this is the secretary general who is negotiating or running this administrative power. which is given the force of an orderin the light of the situation which  involves the use of force. and a pitched battle. and which may involve others. be conditioned by directions of what is tantamount to a legislative body under whose authority the secretary general operates the u.n. general assembly. i think this is very essential to reassure the people of the united states and the people of the world who are members of the u.n. that this is  the direction of only one official though he has a directive. as i have just read. we must remember he is  proceeding either unlawfully or simply out of the dictates of his own judgment. and that whatever he is doing and does do is conditioned under the direction. as close as we can come to it. of a world legislative organ. which would be precisely what would happen in a form of government like our own or a parliamentary form of government. as nearly as we can come to it. under the way in which the united nations is organized.
the authority is mainly contained in the resolution adopted in 1950 by the united nations general assembly. the uniting for peace resolution. which gives the secretary general. under the mandate of the preservation of international peace. authority to proceed as the general assembly may direct. otherwise there would have been a complete failure in the u.n. mandate to keep international peace. for the security council is inhibited by the veto in taking effective action in many cases. it seems to me the substance of other united nations actions has. in practice. justified that interpretation of the charter so far as the general assembly is concerned. i point out there is a directive. and it is. within the procedures of the united nations and its fundamental mission. a proper directive. but i do  think it is practical to continue any such action except under the direction of the general assembly.
m. president. i wish to give the senate my reason for making the motion. because i was  unaware of the fact that the senator from montana would be likely to move to table the motion. i am grateful to him for having given me the opportunity to explain the points involved. because the explanation of the points and some possible expression of views by other members or by the conferees themselves i think will be most helpful to the senate. we have had a very bad experience in conferences with the other body upon foreign aid bills. somehow or other. the representatives of the other body in these conferences have been far more determined than have ours. and almost invariably the bill has ended up very much more like what it was when it came over to the senate from the house than what happened to it here in the senate. it may be recalled that on one occasion we passed an appropriation bill here on the last day of the session. the conferees went out for about an hour and a half. and when they came back the bill had been cut $700 million in that very short transit. we face at this particular time a very different situation. the senate and the house. in dealing as they did with the longterm authorization which the president sought. and which president eisenhower had sought before him. felt that in adopting a plan of authorizing and appropriating. it was at one and the same timebecause it did adopt the provision for authorization over a considerable timesatisfying two principles: one. the need of the president for certainty. so he could k where he stood and how he could proceed. and. second. the need of the congress. which was the view of its majority. that it wished to retain absolute control over the appropriations. so it could make annual authorizations and then money could be borrowed from the treasury. many of us have said. and i think it is time to say it again. that to proceed in this way involves the exercise of responsibility on our part and that we take a solemn determination to see that. certainly in the very first authorization we passed a short time ago. we should  be treated so cavalierly. yet let us see what happened. in the other body the provision for the development loan was cut by $175 million. we have. happily. restored it. but we k that it will  be restored in substantial part until the conference report comes to us and it is approved. next. the contingency fund was literally cut to ribbons on the other side of the capitol. it was reduced from $300 million in the authorization to $175 million. that cut has been restored in the senate. again happily. again. it will  be restored in any final way until we approve a conference report. in the course of the debate on the authorization bill on august 11. 1961. i put into the record a table showing what has happened heretofore with respect to authorizations and appropriations. since 1957 the authorizations have been cut on the average 30 percent. we thought we were working out some plan by which we would have more respect for our authorizations. and also that certainly with respect to the first authorization we were trying to make a finding as to what really is the need. the senate committee on appropriations has sustained the authorization in that finding. we  shall enter into a conference. the question i wished to put before the senate in respect to the conferencethis is the appropriate time and the appropriate way to do itis. will we stand more firm than we have heretofore. or will we again. as we have heretofore. see conferees come back after a relatively short time in the conference to say. we are sorry. but this is the best we can do. the best we can do is generally at the lowest possible common deinator. . this is the only way of which i k. after a bill is passed and we are at the conference stage. that a member or members can express himself or themselves as to the kind of attitude and the kind of position it is hoped the senate conferees will take. this history in respect to these conferences on foregn aid appropriations has certainly been adverse to what i believe is the temper of the senate and the temper of the country in regard to the foreign aid appropriations. especially in view of the fact that this body voted the 5year longterm aid plan and only receded from it when it could  possibly make any progress with it. we maintained. in my opinion. a deeply implied commitment that we would. when we had the opportunity. stand up for these authorizationsand at least for the first authorization. we are  seeking to appropriate in regard to that first authorization. which we consciously and advisedly approved as meeting the needs of the hour. etheless. there is grave danger that unless our conferees do stand up very stronglyand that is what the motion is designed to enable them to dowe shall again go through the same performance we have witnessed before. the house cuts very deeply. the senate restores the cuts. the senate conferees go out. they come back with the house cuts and. in one case. as i said. only a few hours later. then that is the end of that. the time to speak is . as one senator. i am doing my utmost to do so.
. more than anything else. i express the expectation that the united states will again reassert. through its delegate to the united nations. the fact that we are  only the most powerful but also the greatest friend of the united nations. and that we shall expect to implement the effective decisions of the united nations general assembly. as we have done before. the united nations needs this . i can think of greater tribute which our country could pay to dag hammarskjold. whose name will go down in history as one of the greatest supporters of peace mankind has ever kn.
. i annce to the senate that an effort is being made by private enterprise. both in the united states and in the german federal republic which will be of emous significance with respect to the ecoic struggle that is  going on in. connection with the foreign aid policies of both countries. this project is called private enterprise participation. it relates to the proposal by groups of businessmen in the united states and in the german federal republic. who will meet on october 5. in paris to enlist the full power of the private sector of the atlantic community nations in the foreign aid programs pursued by their governments. for the last 3 years i have been the chairman of the ecoic committee of the nato parliamentarian conference. the american group of businessmen is composed principally of members of the u.s. advisory group who. since 1958. have advised me in my work as chairman of that committee. the german group has had the same genesis. the chairman of the u.s. group is dr. e. g. collado. director of standard oil co. of new jersey. i might e at this point that in the standard oil co. of new jersey the directors are the executives. they are working directors. i have a rather interesting listing of the men who compose the u.s. advisory group which will attend the paris meeting on october 5. they are representatives of great banks and industrial companies and other sectors in our ecoy. i ask unanimous consent that this list. together with the advisers and the members of the staff may be made a part of the record at this point. together with the agenda for the meeting to be held on
madam president. the spirit of bipartisanship in foreign affairs should  preclude critical examination of our policies and actions at the united nations. clarification of issues such as the question of the congo and the proposed u.n. bond issue will help to strengthen the united nations rather than weaken it. i have consistently advocated support for the u.n. because i believe it is one of the strongest forces available for the maintenance of international peace and human rights. the spirit of beneficial scrutiny is advocated by roscoe drummond in his column entitled "three issues in dispute: new look at the u.n. is needed." i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record his column. which appeared in the washington post. january 21. 1962.
 eisenhowers statement of policy on september 22. 1960. and concluding with the following statement: the united nations is in the congo with objectives. that by and large parallel our ownto help the adoula government create a stable and unified congo and to ward off the dangers of civil war and greatpower intervention. so far. the united nations has been remarkably successful in its efforts toward this end. had it  been available for this purpose. we should have had to invent it. or the situation would already be lost. the united nations effort deserves our support. we have given it. we should continue to do so. the adoula government. the only legitimate government of the congo. is a broadly based coalition under the leadership of an outstanding communist african nationalist. this governments objectives are fully consistent with ours. it. too. deserves our support and will have it.
. 2 weeks ago i annced that i would seek to amend the united nations bond issue proposal to provide that the united states purchase $20 million of united nations bonds and then would match. dollar for dollar. bonds purchased by other nations up to $100 million. i am gratified to e that two newspapers of such diverse editorial opinion as the new york mirror and the new york post see value and virtue in the amendment i have proposed. i ask unanimous consent that two editorials published in these papers. one in the new york mirror of february 12. and the other in the new york post of february 15. be printed in the record at this point. cvm--161
. new york claims the credit of being the first state to adopt a law against discrimination in employment. signed by gov. thomas e. dewey on march 12. 1945. this law served as the prototype for similar legislation in 15 other states. under it there was set up the new york state commission against discrimination. of which former ambassador to israel. ogden reid. is chairman. today the jurisdiction of the commission goes far beyond the subject of employment and includes many positive achievements in meeting the challenge of equal opportunity. it is fitting. therefore. that this broadened scope of activity be recognized. and one of the recommendations made by gov. nelson a. rockefeller has been to change its name to state commission for human rights. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed in the record excerpts from comments on this subject by gover rockefeller in new york. january 28.
. i am very grateful to my colleague from new york for having turned up an additional fact in showing that progress has really been made. even with respect to our own countrys information. this bears out the need for our government to take a far more affirmative stand than it has taken concerning this very serious problem. i am pleased to state that it is my understanding that the department of state has  transmitted my cablegram to ambassador thompson. who i deeply believe will consider the inquiry as one made on behalf of all who have spoken today and who have tried to do what my colleague from new york has so properly pointed outto get more information and to record far more affirmatively the strong position of the united states. i am grateful to my colleague from new york for his very material contributi6n to this discussion.
. i call attention to a situation  developing in the soviet union and about which i have had the privilege of speaking before. one is a singular attitude on the part of the soviet union with respect to its own emigration policy. a policy which applies a different standard to the jews in the soviet union than to other soviet citizens. in the sense that the soviet union in recent years has permitted the emigration of its citizens on the principle of the reunion of families. it has specifically denied this right to jews and has in fact persecuted religious and community leaders in an effort to discourage any hopes on the part of jews that they will have the same privilege enjoyed by other soviet citizens. this discrimination is part of the study  being made by the united nations subcommission for the prevention of discrimination and the protection of miities. which is expected to be completed by the end of this year. dr. william korey. director of the new york bureau of the bnai brith international council. provides some details on soviet discrimination against jews in connection with their emigration. i ask unanimous consent to print in the record his article. entitled "will soviets ever let my people go." which appeared in the national jewish monthly. march 1962.
s proposals to the united nations of september 1961 are admirably suited for genuine negotiations to achieve the mutually declared objective of the soviet union and the west to end the arms race. the proposals are: first. to achieve agreement on (a) disarmament and (b) procedures for the peaceful settlement of disputes in accordance with the principles of the united nations charter. second. insure that states have nuclear armaments and forces necessary to maintain internal order and that states shall support and provide agreed manpower for a united nations peace force. third. complete disarmament shall provide for (a) disbanding of armed forces. dismantling of military establishments. including bases. (b) elimination of all stockpiles of nuclear. chemical. bacteriological. and other weapons. (c) elimination of all means of delivery of weapons of mass destruction. (d) abolishment of the institutions designed to organize the military effort of states and cessation of military training. and (e) discontinuance of military expenditures. fourth. the disarmament program should be implemented in an agreed sequence by stages. fifth. all measures of disarmament should be balanced so that security is insured equally for all. sixth. strict and effective international control as would provide firm assurance that all parties are hoing their obligations. an international disarmanent organization should be created within the framework of the united nations. its inspectors should be assured unrestricted access to all places. seventh. disarmament should be accompanied by measures to strengthen institutions for maintaining peace and the settlement of international disputes by peaceful means. eighth. states should seek to achieve and implement the widest possible agreement at the earliest possible date. the establishment of an effective organization within the u.s. government should facilitate a continuity of policy which only too often has been lacking during the past 15 years and augurs well for the future. provided of course that the soviet government is genuinely interested in ending the arms race. and will give evidence of it.
madam president. in view of the speech made by the senator from washington . which was put in the record a few minutes ago by the senator from arkansas . i wish to make some points with respect to it. although at this time i do  desire to engage in a fulldress debate on the matter because. first. the senator from washington is  present. and. second. undoubtedly he will want to talk about the matter himself. however. it does seem to me that a speech of this character. the key to which is. let us  rely too heavily on the u.n.. is unfortunate. though i am sure. and i need have reassurance on this score. senator jackson supports the u.n.. as i believe he has shown throughout his career. but. nevertheless. coming at this time in the frame of reference of the attack by the soviet union on the u.n. and on its administration. of the controversy over the u.n. bond issue. and of the attack on the u.n. by the radical right in the united states it could be very worrisome. i would hope. therefore. that senator jackson himself might take action to clear up some of the points in his speech. i do  believe it is necessary that we should try to relegate the u.n. to second place and say that we are going to rely primarily in first place on our military alliances. it is unfortunate. therefore. that this speech should concern itself with the supposition that we are placing too much reliance on the u.n. i refer  to two speeches which were made in the great bipartisan tradition of our country. by president eisenhower and president kennedy. both of whom addressed themselves specifically to the same subject to which the senator from washington addressed himself. president eisenhower. in a speech to the u.n. general assembly. said: the first proposition i place before you is that only through the united nations organization can humanity make real and universal progress toward the goal of peace with justice. i believe that to support the united nations organization and its properly constituted mechanisms and selected officers is the road of greatest promise in peaceful progress. to attempt to hinder or stultify the united nations or to deprecate its importance is to contribute to world unrest and. indeed. to incite the crises that from time to time so disturb all men. the united states stands squarely and unequivocally in support of the united nations and those acting under its mandate in the interest of peace. in almost the same historic commitment. just about 1 year later. on september 21. 1961. president kennedy. also addressing the u.n.. said: that is why my nationwhich has freely shared its capital and its techogy to help others help themselves proposes officially designating this decade of the 1960s as the united nations decade of development. he then again pledged the great faith and confidence and strength of the united states to the activities of the u.n. senator jacxsons speech is a provocative and thoughtful one. and it comes from a man whom i respect very greatly. i was a member of his subcommittee on national policy machinery and i believe the senator drew upon his experiences in that subcommittee in expressing these views. indeed. i have some sympathy with the fact that this problem of policymaking machinery troubles the senator from washington. the difficulty. however. that i find with the speech is that it is likely to be taken in the context of today as a depreciation of the importance of the united nations as a world force. i believe it would be most unfortunate if we were to try to assign number one importance or number two importance to it. because the fact is that the u.n. is the world forum which is the worlds great hope for peace. again. it is  necessary to say that it should be secondary to our alliances. upon which we will primarily rely. the fact is that our alliances are there. and they are important and we do rely on them and everything that that support means. including ecoic and other forms of cooperation. but it is  necessary to apply to nato a number one or a number two labelor to the u.n. either. the u.n.. i say. can stand on its own. we have every interest in supporting it strongly. it would be most unfortunate if the russians should get the idea that the u.n. was to be written down somewhat in importance in this country. and that thereby the door would be opened for them to step in. because the russians would gladly. i believe. take over the role of preeminence in the u.n. held by the united states. primarily because the united states has pledged itself heavily to the support of the u.n. i believe that it is of great importance to us in terms of the peace of the world that we do  rock that boat. it is true that the senator from washington is only one senator. however. he is an important senator. i bring this matter up at this time  in criticism. but in the hope that by a composite of our thinkingmine. senator jacksons. and other senatorswe can contribute to an understanding of the true policy of the united states with respect to the united nations. and that it may be made clear to the world. that view may be summarized as follows: we do  expect miracles. this is  the millennium. the u.n. will  solve everything. but we do expect that this world organization. to which we have pledged our full support. will maintain its place of preeminence in seeking to preserve the peace of the world. it is unnecessary to place it in first or second place so far as its importance is concerned as an instrument of our foreign policy. this approach of  writing it down as being in first place or in second place is  being woollyheaded but rather being hardheaded. by placing the u.n. in the frame of reference of its world importance as a means of maintaining the peace we enable it to stand on its own. we respect fully the historic pledges of support we have made to it. and we give the proper assurance of substance and authority to the many nationsespecially the newer and smaller nationsto which the u.n. represents their major participation in world affairs.
madam president. i rise in support of the amendment offered by the majority and miity leaders. which is the pending business. and is a welladvertised compromise to the presidents proposal to buy $100 million of u.n. bonds. preliminarily. i think it is fair to say that in my view the proposal is an improved approach to the problem and reflects credit upon those who. by their efforts. have brought it about. though there seems to be some question in the press--with which i do  agreei believe the amendment represents a substantive difference of approach to the problem which is before us. let us remember that when we first considered this subject. it was to approve participation in a bond issue which was provided for by united nations resolution. and the amendment proposes that we shall give the president authority. which he may exercise only if he receives an appropriation. to subscribe to a loan of $100 million. without specifying the terms. the difference is a very important one because the provisions of the amendment would  bind either the president or the congress to the u.n. bond proposal. but would give the president a new opportunity for negotiating the question. which the bill that the administration itself brought in did  give him. it seems to me that in view of the slight storm which has been raised by this question. the expression of view which was made by the majority leader. the senator from washington . and by others. as to the validity of the united nations mission. the president may very well welcome the freedom of action contemplated. let us remember that i. too. had a similar proposal in mind when. very early in the stages of consideration of this question. i filed an amendment. which in effect was subsequently adopted by the committee on foreign relations. by which i sought to limit the amount of our absolute participation to $20 millionthe foreign relations committee made the amount $25 millionwith the provision that we would buy additional bonds only on a matching basis if others bought bonds in an amount similar to our commitment. the proposal was also in the direction of providing some leverage in order to see that a complete job for the u.n.. instead of only a partial job. was done. i believe that the amendment which has been offered by way of compromise is directed along the same line. and is therefore very sound from the point of view of our government. i shall expand upon that point in a moment. there is hing holy about the document. other conditions. which are  in the measure . may very well be interposed. it is very possible that such action may be taken. but i am confident that the general approach is the approach which the senate will wish to adopt. i should like to pay my tribute to the distinguished senator from vermont . who is present in the chamber. he is never given to vain expressions. when he offered his loan plan with the senator from iowa . he said that he was for the u.n. and that he was offering the proposal as a friend of the u.n. it seems to me that the senator from vermont has vindicated that attitude in his willingness to arrive at the kind of compromise proposed which. it seems to me. would commit us to the cause of the u.n. and. at the same time. would approach the problem in realistic terms. in place of the specific financial commitment for which congress was asked. i think we have seen a very interesting and important development and. on the whole. an improvement over what we had before. i think great credit for the improvement must be given to our distinguished colleague from vermont. the question of the validity of buying bonds or making a loan. of course. will  be cast in loan terms. as to the advisability of making a loan which would enable the united nations to conduct its business. i do  think there can be any question. it is almost an axiom that the united nations is essential. and if we did  have it. we would have to look for some substitute for it. but in my opinion that is only half the story. perhaps the most important and dominant aspect of the whole question is the timing. for example. in respect of the views of the senator from washington . i have heard it stated that the president himself said that he could  disagree. much as i love the senator from washington . i disagreed with him because of the timing. we should  underestimate that problem. i observe that the majority leader. the senator from montana . is  in the chamber. i should like to say to him that i have rarely observed him shooting his arrows at the target as accurately as he did yesterday in discussing this question. he. too. emphasized the matter of timing. i believe that the senator from washington and the senator from montana has aone us a service in calling to our attention the timing in a situation. as the senate deliberates upon what to do with regard to a loan. i hope it will consider the question of timing. because we are at a moment in history when the soviet union and the coalition it leads is making a concerted effort to destroy the united nations. let us understand that point. the soviet union is making a concerted effort to destroy the usefulness of the united nations by every means within its control. including its advancing of the troika principle. "buttering up" elements in the united nations which it is felt can lessen the influence of the u.n.. efforts to exacerbate the areas of difference between different groups in the united nations. and the assertion of khrushchev that if the united nations determines that it is required to do something and he does  want to do it. he will use force in order to prevent it from being done. every calculated effort is being made to destroy the united nations. of course. the russians also desire to destroy it by denying it financial support. because. withstanding the fact that they are communists. they understand. perhaps even better than we do. the value of money. the value of the hard coin of the realm. as is shown by their activities all over the world. therefore i feel that the most significant aspect of the important question of support for the u.n. is the timing. it is particularly important at this time. when it is so greatly needed.
i agree with what the distinguished senator from vermont says. as he defines the term. because i define it in the same way. the russians would like to keep the united nations as an organization essential to their purposes.
madam president. i did  happen to be on the floor this morning just before the recess for the joint meeting. i understand some of my colleagues. including senators cooper. kuchel. bush. and keating. had something to say about the republican conference of yesterday and the attitude of republicans toward the compromise proposal put forward by the senator from montana and the senator from illis [ kennedy has done the same thing. one of the most vital aspects of our national policy is the bipartisan foreign policy. and i believe my party should support it. when we get into the debate. i shall have something further to say about that. but for the moment i think it is sufficient to say that if the press has represented to the countryand i. too. have seen these headlinesthat the gop takes suchandsuch an attitude with respect to the united nations. then i think the record should be set as straight as possible by as many persons as possible. i express the expectation. as my colleagues did this morning. that a substantial majority of senators on this side of the aisle will be found. when the roll is finally called. in support of what it takes to keep the united nations actively and effectively in business.
i. too. have read the letter. it goes a long way toward justifying the socalled compromise. and to answer the points which have been made against it. first. the statement has been made that the amendment does  mean anything. the president has shown that under its provisions his hands would be -free from the resolution of the united nations with relation to bonds. the president has indicated that under the amendment he would have freedom of action. i hope very much that the amendment will be agreed to. and i hope that a majority of my party will vote for it and support the miity leader. the senator from illis in that effort. the letter shows that the presidents hands are untied with relation to the specific terms of the original bill. which was specifically related to the u.n. resolution. second. the president has undertaken commitments which the amendment would require him to undertake. those relate to the payment of the obligations. including assessments. of other members which might be in arrears. he has done one additional thing. which a great many senators who are for the u.n. have wanted done. he has undertaken to keep us apprised of the status of payments and arrearages in the u.n. the president has undertaken a specific obligation to that effect. therefore. i believe that the importance of the letter is that it accepts a number of the important conditions which are contained in the amendment. it is one thing to set down conditions for a president who does  have to observe them. it is aher thing to ask him to do something. but it is a very different thing when he pledges himself to take the action desired. two parties are required to make a contract. he is the other party. he has  made a commitment. so i think his action has demonstrated that the compromise submitted by the senator from montana and the senator from illis [ has undertaken some very real obligations in deference to that position. i hope very much that the letter will help any senators who might be wavering on the question to decide to vote in favor of the mansfielddirksen amendment.
the senator from new york will get to the senators statement with respect to the united nations participation act. the united nations participation act. in section 6. referred to the scheme of organization of a permanent u.n. police force which was to be negotiated among the nations. and which is something that has never been done. it is that over which the congress wished to keep control. and the congress is quite right. because that is  an incident similar to the condition in the congo. or vietnam. or some other place. that is a basic commitment. of a permanent character. of forces of the united states to the united nations on a general basis. i agree with that. this is  the same thing the senator from georgia is providing for. this section is tied in with section 7. or at least chapter 12. of the united nations charter. which provides for action by the united nations. on an open basis. whatever may be decided as proper action by it with respect to threats to peace. breaches of the peace. and acts of aggression. in short. it is one thing to have congress retain control as to what shall be done in devoting an element of the american military forces to a permanent type of police force to the united nations. this is aher matter. it deals. on a casebycase basis. with individual incidents such as have occurred in vietnam and the congo. and may occur elsewhere. in one case. that of section 6. this is a major. deliberate decision by the united states to commit. on a permanent basis. as a fundamental basis of policy. some of its forces. in the other case it is an exercise by the president. on a foreign policy basis. which we could stop at any time. of participating with other nations in some actions adapted to a particular incident affecting the foreign policy of the united states. though it is ancient history. i may mention that in our gunboat diplomacy in latin america and other parts of the world our president did  come to congress to ask whether it wanted that particular thing done. the president acted under his power as commander in chief of the armed forces of the united states. it is all right to make lurid statements about the fact that we may send american boys here or there to their deaths. but would we rather send them en masse. in the millions or in the hundreds of thousands. or. instead. would we prefer to adopt the policy. which may cost some livesand of course we understand that. and it breaks our hearts to even think of itwhich is designed to minimize the danger by localizing and minimizing incidents. instead of leaving it up to the congress to pass joint declarations that we wish to engage in massive participation. what would we expect the russians to do if the congress of the united states should pass a joint resolution to send american troops to the congo. should we expect the russians to sit and twiddle their thumbs. i should say . they would consider it to be a major element in the mobilization of our countrys forces. it is a great thing in the united states that any senatorand certainly a senator as distinguished and important as our colleaguecan present any amendment.
two points are involved. the first point is that the president is  committed. as shown by his letter. to see to it that every 6 months the congress is given a report on arrearages. which will make those arrearages public and call them to the attention of the congress.- because the president will report to the congress. it will give members of congress an opportunity to do what we are so expert at doing. to protest very vigorously if we feel the program is  being handled properly. second. i think the whole purport of the presidents letter is that the united states will do what it has  done before. that it will interest itself in a diplomatic sense in the matter of the payment of assessments. arrearages. et cetera to the united nations. the president will  use any of the money he may lend to the united nations to bail anybody out. he makes that clear. the clear implication is present in the letter that the united states will address itself as a nation. with all the great facilities it has. toward seeing to it that a much better record is made. there is a commitment to do better. on our part. in a diplomatic sense. which is contained in the agreement to make reports to the congress. which is important. i think. first. as giving to us a window on the situation. and. second. a platform from which to protest if we feel the program is  being handled properly. for those two reasons i made the statement i did.
. with the permission of the majority leader. i should like to suggest the absence of a quorum and then regain the floor to discuss the united nations security council resolition on the syrianisrael dispute. and i ask unanimous consent that i may do so.
i am very grateful to my colleague from virginia for his understanding of my desire to make this statement. i desire to address myself to the issue of berlin. the berlin issue is the primary topic on the agenda at the ministerial conference of the th atlantic treaty organization. which will get underway in athens friday. as the u.s. and allied policy on berlin is being crystallized. it is imperative that our government k the views of public officials who have followed events closely in this dangerous area for a long time. in that constructive spirit. i should like to discuss today what in my view are the indispensable guidelines to an effective berlin policy. the recent preliminary meetings between secretary of state dean rusk and soviet ambassador anatoly f. dobrynin have given rise to a disquieting tendency to accept as fact that a berlin agreement with the u.s.s.r. must be the immediate and primary objective of our current policy on berlin. i believe that action based on the assumption that we must somehow have an agreement is dangerous and iges the fundamental principles and objectives of our berlin policy. to which we have remained steadfast under three presidents. the fact is that ultimatums by the soviet union on berlin have lapsed from time to time and we are still where we were. therefore. apparently the u.s.s.r. also can live without a berlin agreement. a berlin agreement would certainly be desirable if it would bring greater security to europe and higher hopes of peace to the world. but it is  an indispensable condition of american policy at this time. indeed. rather than make concessions that are inconsistent with our fundamental principles. it would be better to do without a berlin agreement for the time being. our berlin policy has been one of fidelity to the freedom of the people of west berlin. respect for the integrity of the german federal republic and refusal to compromise the ultimate hope for selfdetermination of the soviet satellites in central and southern europe. in adhering to those principles. we have run risks and we have faced up to many crises. impatience over continued tensions must  lead to a feeling that an agreement is  imperativewhatever may be the cost. we can live without an agreement. and we should make one only when we have reasonable grounds for believing that it contributes materially to the security of europe and to world peace. i believe the primary considerations for a berlin agreement  must be based on the following: first. uncontrolled access to west berlin from west germany. this is the primary and immediate objective which the free world must seek in any negotiations which admittedly would be directed at an accommodation awaiting permanent settlement of the larger german and central european questions. such access could be achieved through the establishment of a united nations commission. responsible directly to the general assembly. to administer the uncontrolled access routes. under such a plan. the united states. the united kingdom. france. and the soviet union would bear the financial responsibility for the administrative costs. a clearly delineated united nations commission would avoid the impotence which has plagued such neutral commission as those in korea and laos which have failed in their jobs. an official complaint to the secretary general of the u.n. by any of those four nations should be cause for an immediate reevaluation of the commission. its members and functions. by the general assembly. should the commission fail to get a vote of confidence from the assembly. it would have to be reconstituted within a stated term by the assembly or power over the access routes would devolve upon the four nationsthe united states. united kingdom. france. and the u.s.s.r.-having ultimate responsibility. and conditions would revert to their present state. second. integration of west berlin into west germany. this could be symbolized by granting voting rights to the berlin representatives in the bundestag and bundesrat and by making west german laws effective in west berlin. it would represent a logical legal step forward.  need it interfere with the prewall status of the relation of the soviet forces to the divided city and the divided germany. third. removal of the berlin wall. the wall is illegal as a violation of the fourpower agreement on berlin. and it is an affront to the dignity of the united states. british. and french position in berlin. it should be removed if there is to be any rational relationship between east germany and west germany. substitute arrangements with the u.s.s.r.. even if the dividing line were treated as a border. would still  be the foreboding horror of the wall. fourth. maintenance of present u.s. troop strength in west berlin. our garrison is there to do a job: to defend occupation rights and the rights of the citizens of west berlin. we need an effective force  only to serve as a deterrent to military action but also to prevent communistinspired subversion or violence. fifth. a aggression pact between nato and the warsaw pact powers should  compromise natos internal capability for defense. including a nuclear capability. or give any legal sanction to the domination of central and southern european nations by communist regimes installed by the u.s.s.r. negotiations always suggest hope. i am all for them and i want to encourage them when they offer even the slightest possibility of success. i want us to continue negotiations. but concessions made on berlin which are  consistent with the basic objectives i have outlined will only lead to conjectures. false hopes. and more trouble. let us remember that the prime objective of chairman khrushchevs policy is to expand soviet influence into the german federal republic just as the objective of our policy is to maintain the independence of the german federal republic under free institutions as a key basis for an integrated free europe. the objective of our policy. therefore. must be to take careful account of what any berlin agreement with the u.s.s.r. means to the people of the german federal republic. it must mean that we are adhering to our objectives as they have been stated successfully by presidents truman. eisenhower. and kennedy. if . we are better off without an agreement at all at this time. . i thank my colleague from virginia for his forbearance.
i appreciate the senators reply. i think it might be helpful to the senators general thesis if the following were said: first. there are  available a great number of new international media for coordination and for achieving success in such a conference. such facilities were  available at that time. among them are the international bank for reconstruction and development. the international monetary fund. the international finance corporation. the international development association. and all the new techniques for establishing an integrated europe.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record. in connection with my remarks. an extraordinary speech delivered by a very gifted and very great american. the speech is entitled "u.s. diplomacy at the crossroads." it was a founders day speech. delivered at occidental college. los angeles. on april 25. by the hoable j. d. zellerbach. chairman of the board of the crownzellerbach corp.. and formerly u.s. ambassador to italy. and formerly head of our marshall plan aid mission in italy. his speech is one of the most extraordinary and most gifted speeches i have read for a long time.
first. i wish to state to the senator from alabama that i think he rendered a distinguished service. we can argue the entire case on the basis of the conference report. my view is that we would have to reargue the case and undo what the house and senate conferees have voted on. if a colleague of ours desired a day or two in which to study the report. i would  feel that i should stand in his way. i would  want to block an opportunity for tactical discretion. but i do  think any long delay is warranted. because i think the bill might fall apart if there were a long delay. especially if there are involved matters of domestic ecoy. trade questions. and so forth. if we are to legislate by big. round brackets. we had better change the character of the congress and its activities. i think the committee has done a remarkably fine piece of work. i once served on the house foreign affairs committee. and i think i k something about how it works. in the compromises which have been arrived at. i think there have been reasonable and practical approaches and. in my judgment. they are on the broad level of the majority opinion in our country and. i am sure. of the congress. i invite special attention to the fact that this is the first time within my recollection when the entire private enterprise system has been accommodated and recognized in an official way in the foreign aid policy of our country. i find conditions in the bill  which will give assistance and aid to the commerce committee in connection with the alliance for progress program. it is the first time there has been a recognition. in a very definitive way. by money and services. of the indispensable part that our private enterprise system can and must play if these programs are to be successful. there are other sections of the measure which are deserving of commendationfor example. the requirement in the conference report for reports with reference to the declaration as to discrimination by foreign governments against american citizens because of their faith. which i think is extremely important. i e also. with great satisfaction. aside from the private enterprise section. that the investment guarantee section has been subjected to very material improvement. on the whole. king the way these procedures operate. having lived a day or two in the congress. i think the conference committee is entitled to our thanks and congratulations. and i hope the conference report will be approved.
 gave voice to the other day. the issue will still remain even if the cuban communist regime does  move out of its own area and into aggression against other states. certainly it is  a base for subversion and a base for communist infectionwith the danger of aggressionfor all of the americas. and in a most vigorous and intransigent way that has been. is being. and will be transmitted to the other american republics. one thing is clear to me. this is a challenge and a very grave emergency for our country which has been building up. as we all very well knew. for the last year and a half. but there is a great will in this country. in my opinion. to deal with it primarily in terms of agreement. at least with the great majority of the other american states. if there is one thing i feel personally the american people are convinced of. it is that if it is humanly possible to do so. we should have a common policy and a common course of action with the other american states under the charter of the organization of american states and the treaties and agreements entered into. since it only takes a threequarters vote to act. that is something which we must understand. the vote may  be unanimous. but a threequarters vote is a large vote. and to be truly effective. should include the principal countries of latin america. the countries of great population. great territory. and perhaps in a somewhat more advanced state ecoically than
. this measure was the subject of long debate. much controversy. and great discussion throughout the country. i believe the controversy is  happily settled. and i believe the measure as it  stands marks a commitment by the people of the united states to the united nations which should  be overlooked. i believe it represents a very serious and important understanding that we are relying heavily upon this agency in connection with trying to have a rule of law in the world replace the rule of force. the significance of this measure should  be overlooked merely because the debate took place some time ago. i am delighted that this action has been taken. and i believe it important to the united states. to the united nations. and to the world.
. i wish to say a word about a very serious situation which has developed in the near east. the missile race spread to the near east when egypt fired its new rockets in the direction of israel. and in this highly volatile and explosive region. time for peace may well be running out. an arabisraeli peace has repeatedly been stated to be a fundamental goal of u.s. foreign policy. yet. the administration last year voted against the 16nation resolution in the u.n. which called on israel and the arab states to settle their 14yearold dispute by direct negotiations. the united states should  repeat this mistake again and should move to support in the united nations general assembly the peace resolution being prepared by a group of african states. since 1961 huge masses of soviet bloc weapons have poured into the united arab republicguns. tanks. heavy jet bombers said to be capable of delivering 10ton payloads. and groundtoground missiles. the other arab states as well as israel feel themselves threatened. there are weapons for aggression and they have caused israels finance minister. speaking in this city saturday night. september 22. to warn that israels only hope to avoid disaster lies in convincing nasser that the distance from tel aviv to cairo. as the rocket flies. is the same as from cairo to tel aviv. the imbalance of arms is already stirring up new dangerous tensions in the near east. and we can sit back complacently in the belief that under our policy of "quiet" diplomacy this threat to peace will go away. in the face of the present danger of an arms race. i believe the time has come for the administration to drop its negativism on near east policy and take the initiative for peace which it has repeatedly promised. so far the administration has made public declaration of a positive policy toward the near east. it has done hing constructive about the blockade of the suez canal against israel shipping. or the arab boycott of israel despite the fact that all these countries are helped by our foreign aid program. we tolerate the arab blacklisting of u.s. business firms and the discriminatoryand sometimes even insultingpractices against american citizens by states which perhaps could  survive without the u.s. taxpayers assistance. the administration must face up to the reality of arab threats of war against israel and to the fact the arab demands on israel are designed to destroy that country.  to correct injustice. time alone is  on the side of peace. and if the uneasy truce that  exists in the near east should collapse as a consequence of a new arms race. communist imperialism will find very fertile soil for its agitation. a positive american policy will support constructive measures in the u.n. leading to an initiative for peace and will move forward along these primary paths: first. an end to boycotts. discrimination and other obstacles to the free flow of trade. regional development of resources. and ecoic association with the european common market. second. resettlement of the bulk of the arab refugees in arab lands where there is room for them and need for their labor. and third. within the framework of direct peace talks and to aid in resettlement. compensation on reasonable terms for arab property abandoned in israel. we can make a start toward these objectives by supporting the u.n. peace resolution initiated in the general assembly by the african states. and we should do so before a new and grave crisis develops.
. one or two points arose in the work of the committee. of which i am a member. which have  been referred to as clearly as they should. as bearing upon the desirability of sustaining the committee. which is my position. one of these is a totally new factor. and that is the very large amount of assistance which is going to underdeveloped areas from the western european nations. the socalled development assistance committee group. which includes western europe and japan. according to the testimony of the administrator of aid. it is expected that in this year we will see that figure approach $21/2 billion. that compares with our ecoic assistance of all kinds. including this assistance. which is really ancillary to military activity. of $3.4 billion. in short. we are beginning to get. for the first time. a ratability of carrying responsibility among the major european countries and japan and the united states. i should like to point out as a specific instance. in the case of india. that india had a program in the amount of $400 million. all the advances made to india by all the other countries of the world in the last 3 years were $1.249 million. to give some concept of the competition from the soviet union. it has advanced india. since 1959. $893 million. that is all contained in the report of the house appropriations committee on this subject. i should also like to refer to the fact that in 1961. when this was accomplished. the developmentassistance group of countries gave bilateral ecoic grants and loans of more than 6 years maturity to the less developed countries in the amount of $1.964 million as against our $3.5 billion. in short. what these various figures mean is. first. that the competition with the soviet union has become more keen. and if we leave vacuums. they will move into them. when they move in. they do  move in only with money. they move in with socalled technicians. there has been a great deal of headscratching about technicians. as applied to cuba. i do  think we want to invite those technicians to many parts of the world. if we can avoid it. second is the fact that we are getting some area of ratability with other industrialized nations for the first time since the program has been started. what has bedeviled the foreign aid constantly has been the loan process on the part of the united statesof our principles. our policies. our practices dealing with foreign aid. i have had experience with this program from the very beginning. i was a member of the other body at the very inception of the foreign aid program in 1948 and 1949. i myself had much to do with the way in which the mutual security acts have been written. i speak with the greatest of intimacy and kledge of them. i think our processes have improved. i think we are making progress in the necessary capital investments in underdeveloped countries. but i do  think we are coming near the mark of what is required. when we talk about billions of dollars. let us remember we are dealing with a billion and a half people. when we talk about billions of dollars. let us remember that we are dealing with a billion and a half people who are tremendously under par in terms of standard of living. sanitation. and education. in the most rudimentary aspects of life. if we are trying to build a world in which we ourselves will live on a fairly decent street and will  be surrounded by slums which are impossible to live with. we must build this program and make certain that it is adequate. one believes for a minute that the u.s. congress will do much more than it is doing and has done in recent years. i agree with that. i have  tried for any more. but i certainly do  think we can cut the program without doing grave damage to the whole program. especially since other nations are  moving in and making it come somewhere near what it should be. the real problem is that the aid is  egh. there are too many hundreds of millions of people. there are too many countries. and there is too much abysmal poverty and backwardness in the world to be caught up with by aid in the amount of $3.500 million on the part of the united states and $2.500 million on the part of the other industrialized nations of the world. making a total in the area of $6 billion. that is  egh. therefore. we have had to look to what is essentially the private ecoic system. but the private ecoic system will  enter the program until. first. there is a greater awareness of its desirability from the newly developing countries. second. until the bases are more securely laid in ports. roads. communications. and in the fundamental infrastructure. in which we are still so far behind in building. as is evidenced in india and other underdeveloped countries. one claims or says that those people will become communists because we feed them. but it is said that the national aspirations of the new countries will become somewhat worse if progress is  made in building them up to responsible nationhood. the people will  have an inducement to try to become free. that is what we are talking about. miracles are being promised. we are dealing with the life and death of hundreds of millions of people. we are dealing with the liberty of the whole world. on those terms. i am for meeting the bill which experience and practice have demonstrated is worthwhile. we should  be niggling about it. i admire and pay my tribute to the senator from louisiana . who. because of his thoroughness and the fact that he does his homework and keeps boring in. makes people perform so much better than they ordinarily would. i am happy to say that. so i do  speak in disrespect when i say that comparing this proposal with what ought to be done. compared with the responsibilities which we are trying to carry. compared with what we are trying to inspire and animate in our industrial partners throughout the world. the proposed cut is unwise. the house went infinitely too far. we are trying to adjust the balance to some extent. i think if we try to make a $200 million cut . we will be missing the forest for the trees and will be unwise in our own interest in  carrying on favorably and adequately. perhaps this is  so severe a cut. that is  what is at stake. can any member of the senate guarantee what countries would have fallen to communism if we had  been engaged in this program. would it have been greece. turkey. iran. india. pakistan. burma. or any other country. including indonesia. what member of the senate can say that any of those countries would  have fallen to communism. we have kept most of the people in the world free. withstanding the revolutionary aspects of the people. withstanding their hatred of colonialism. as typified to them by white europeans or by white americans. we have paid for it.  in blood. but in treasure. let us therefore assess the worth of the program and whether we ought to make a mi cut. although a hurtful cut. in what has served us so well in our offensive at home. let us  cripple ourselves in such a way as to discredit others who are at long last participating. so that they. too. may begin to make a shift and pull out. instead of moving forward. as we  see they are happily doing and are able to do. i hope the amendment will be rejected.
. before we get off the main body of the debate. i should like to call attention to the fact that it is claimed that aid is  taking full advantage of the extended risk authority in the foreign aid bill. except for one housing loan which was recently placed under such guarantees. the use of such guarantees. whenever possible. in place of public grants or loans would be a definite step in the direction of enlisting the private sector in the alliance for progress program. as well as in the international development program in general. it would carry out the intent of my amendment to section 601 of the foreign assistance act in 1961 and the intent of my amendment to the new alliance for progress titlesection 251(f). title vi of the foreign assistance act of 1962both of which amendments were designed to stimulate the greater use of the private sector in meeting the foreign ecoic policy objectives of the united states. when i moved to increase the aggregate amount of the allrisk guarantees. and the aggregate amount of the individual guarantees. it was with the intention of seeing the authority used. so that private enterprise investment might replace some public investment. i should like to point out that even development loan funds are  made available to private investment. while i understand that a number of requests are pending. and i do  wish to urge aid to make any improvident loans. i feel very strongly that every effort should be made to give these guarantees. and actually to use the authority. as this is the way in which we can bring about the greatest effectiveness in our foreign aid program and to minimize. as far as possible. public investment.
first. i think it should be emphasized that the senator who  has the floor is a former ambassador to india. one of the countries which we aid the most. the senator speaks from the depth of his experience. i hope very much that  only the senate but also the world will listen. i should like to ask the senatorwhich is the reason why i have interruptedwhether he would add aher factor. the private enterprise factor. and whether we should  bargain with the countries to which we give aid. to be sure that they will be receptive to all the private enterprise investment available to them if they will but treat it fairly. without discrimination. and without having the sword of damocles of expropriation hung over their heads every wednesday.
. the communist presence in cuba. carrying with it increasing threats to the tranquillity of the western hemisphere. poses for the united states problems for which ready solutions do  appear at hand. it is vital that. if we are to act with the intelligence and forthrightness required in this crisis. americans must be informed both as to the facts and as to solutions offered. in the october 5 issue of life magazine. clare boothe luce. distinguished former u.s. ambassador to italy and formerly a member of the house committee on foreign affairs. presents her exposition of the cuban situation and offers solutions for our dilemma there. her article is. as is characteristic of m s. luce. provocative and strong. it merits reading and consideration by all who seek to be informed on the difficulties which beset us in the caribbean today. mrs. luces article is appended hereto.
. a most important step in the progress of mankind was taken on february 1 when basic principles of human rights. including the right to emigrate. were adopted at the united nations by the subcommission on the prevention of discrimination and protection of miities. the report. which deals with the right to emigrate. is a subject which. i hope very much. will have favorable action and may come before us here in the senate. the report  goes to the u.n. commission on human rights and must be adopted first by the u.n. ecoic and social council and finally by the general assembly. if the draft principles are eventually adopted. this action could have farreaching effects throughout the world. particularly in the u.s.s.r. and other countries behind the iron curtain. these countries at present very severely restrict emigration to other countries. the subcommissions draft principles were adopted by a vote of 10 to 0. with the soviet representative abstaining. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point the summary of this action issued by the united nations on february 1. 1963.
. the 45th anniversary of the independence of lithuania was observed on february 16. i am pleased to join in paying tribute to the courageous people of that country. spirited fighters for their national freedom for many generations. the brave people of lithuania are  held captive by the soviet union and denied the basic right of selfdetermination. it is important that their friends and relatives in the united states and other free countries continue to keep alive the demand for free elections and for national independence. the colonial empire which the soviet union has created in eastern europe by subjugating the native population violates the united nations charter and presents a constant threat to peace and security. the muted voices of the people of lithuania find expression in the struggle for national identity in the statements by their brother. in the free world. and i am proud to add my own voice to that heroic struggle.
. it is a matter of great satisfaction to me to be able to state that a recent united nations report shows that so far a total of 58 nations have purchased or signified their intention to buy united nations bonds. and that the total amount pledged or paid is  more than $137 million. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a united nations press release listing the nations. the amounts. and the dates of the purchases of united nations bonds. paid or pledged. to february 15. 1963.
. the action of the soviet authorities for the second consecutive year in prohibiting state bakeries from providing matzoth for the celebration of passover and in rejecting all attempts to import matzoth from other countries can be interpreted in only one way. this is more than aher communist antireligious measure. and it can be separated from the entire series of antijewish acts taken by the communist government of the u.s.s.r. the total ban on importing or baking matzoth. which for thousands of years has been part of the jewish religious observance of passover. is inexcusable. and the chorus of protests from the people of the free world should be loud egh to penetrate the walls of the kremlin. we k that chairman khrushchev and the soviet authorities are sensitive to the charge of antisemitism. and they should k that this is the way the world regards their actions. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record three news reports of appeals to the united nations and to moscow to permit the baking of matzoth. the appeals were made by the new york board of rabbis and by the chief rabbi of great britain. israel brodie. i also ask consent to have printed in the record a report of hearings on antisemitism by the soviet union. the hearings were held by the united nations commission on human rights. these dispatches were transmitted on march 25 by the jewish telegraphic agency.
i am grateful to my friend from illis. and thank him for the very fine contribution he has made to this debate. i may say. in respect to the foreign service. that i have run into elements and ideas in the foreign service on this subject which have concerned me very deeply. i do  believe that it characterizes  or will characterize the policy of our country. we have shown our-. selves capable of making decisions which. we must take. withstanding any such feeling. however. i believe that what the senator says on that score only buttresses me in the moral position of my advocacy. on the floor of the senate. of a departure of policy. the senate is a very persuasive place. also. i am pleased that the senator has emphasized the concept of dealing in concert with our allies. france and great britain. and carrying through and implementing the declaration of may 1950. to which the senator has referred. i agree with the senator that i do  believe that the suez situation. in respect to which i took the same position that he took. and. in connection with which i took some political risk. because i was running for public office in new york state. would intrude into some considered support .on a high level to meet april s0 what seems to be the threat to peace mounting over the horizon. and a very serious threat.
i shall be very brief. i believe our colleague has spoken so eloquently for us on this side of the aisle that his statement needs addition by me. but i have so much regard for mr. b. k. nehru. the ambassador of india to the united states. who is in the chamber. and his colleagues. some of whom i visited myself in india 7 years ago. that i desire to say that if freedom is to triumph in that nation. it will be because of the sense of democracy in india as contrasted to china. i rise today to join with my colleagues in welcoming these distinguished visitors. and to assure them that they have in the united states a vast reservoir of good will. affection. and a desire to help upon which to draw.
. one approach proposed in the resolution is the taking of new initiatives within the international monetary fund. i am satisfied that the administration intends to do so. the other is the calling of an international monetary conference to deal with the longterm problems. in view of the interest expressed in this resolution by several of my colleagues. i ask unanimous consent that it be held at the desk until july 17. for additional sponsors.
 roosevelts efforts to raise prices at home. therefore. he had to reject them. it was the fiat rejection of the proposed joint declaration of the conference. which was calling then for a conservative bankers line. that destroyed the conference. today totally different conditions prevail. the united states is the international leader in finance. as well as in respect of peace. and the bankers abroad have a different relationship. both to the concept of banking and the leadership of the united states. than before. the best evidence to sustain the fact that we have become the principal ecoic power in the world in the postwar period and what can be achieved through a wellplanned conference in this field is the bretton woods conference of july 19. 1944. which resulted in the establishment of the international monetary fund and the world bank. it showed what can be achieved when countries with common objectives. having a limited. clearly defined objective in mind. sit down to a wellprepared conference. therefore. i believe such a conference. called together after careful preparation. to examine and make recommendations on the world liquidity problem. and to modernize present international monetary institutions. could meet with better success than ever before.
 eisenhower as ambassador to italy. where he made an outstanding record. convincing washington that the italians should  be taken for granted. he is credited. in both his ministerial and ambassadorial capacities. with having been an important factor in the miracle of the italian ecoy. j. d. zellerbach in his personal life was one of the most delightful men i have kn. he had many friends in this chamber. he was a gentleman winegrower in california. he was an outstanding civic leader of san francisco. devoting much of his time to the symphony. he led a dedicated. beautiful life. he was a very close personal friend of mine for nearly 30 years. it is with deep sorrow that i annce his passing and pay my tribute to j. d. zellerbacha great american. a great businessman. a great servant of the american people at home and abroad.
. the four documents which i ask unanimous consent to have included in the record as a part of my remarks consist of the proclamation of athens. the declaration of general principles for world rule of law. stating certain general principles upon which a world rule of law could be based. the lawyers global work program to advance a world rule of law. and. very importantly. the resolutions creating the world peace through law center. to which all lawyers in the united states may belong.
the senator is saying words of the most historic importance to our nation and the senate. as the senator from minnesota serves on the foreign relations committee. and as the foreign relations committee is going to deal with this question. i should like to add. if i may. three points: first. i wish to associate myself with the senators conviction that foreign aid is the offensive of the united states against communism. -and that we tend to destroy that offensive unless we take a more constructive view than. in my opinion. the other body has in acting on the authorization for foreign aid. so i join the senator in any efforts to correct what has been done. but i would be less than honest if i did  say to the senator that i read certain lessons in this action. the senator from minnesota has given gifted leadership in this field in the foreign relations committee. so i hope the senate will pay strict attention to this aspect of the problem. i feel there is unhappiness over the fact that the private enterprise system has  been adequately introduced within the processes of foreign aid and that really major actions have  been taken on that score. i believe it can be done. and i believe. quite honestly. that  egh enterprise has been shown in aid. or by previous administrations. for that matter. in order to do that. to take an example out of the air. as it werebut it is a proper examplethere is serious concern about the fact that private enterprise is  encouraged. but discouraged from involvement in hundreds of countries to which we are giving foreign aid. and it is made kn that the government would rather do it itself. there is a deep feeling in many quarters that the world bank would be an excellent agent for the foreignaid funds of the united states. in putting together the foreign aid funds with consortia of private enterprise. there are probably dozens of other ways. but i commend to the senator the amendments--and i have some myselfwhich are before the appropriations committee to introduce private enterprise more effectively into this program. there is great unhappiness at the idea of seeking to introduce social reforms into latin america under the cover of the alliance for progress. i thoroughly agree with such social reforms. but the question is whether it will work. or whether we will get social reforms faster if ecoic aid under the alliance for progress is operated as an ecoic matter. in a businesslike way. first producing greater ecoic strength. and whether we should  lay social reforms aside for the moment. however. be that as it may. we k that most people will choose the path of social reform once they get some ecoic security and ecoic wellbeing. there was an excellent article on this subject published in the new york times sunday magazine of yesterday. and i ask unanimous consent. with the senates permission. to have it appear in the record at this point.
. this is a serious problem. a total of 72 countries. including 19 of the fully developed. industrial countries of the free world. maintain such restrictions today. i ask unanimous consent to include in the record as a part of my remarks a compilation upon this subject. country by country. furnished to me by the international monetary fund as recently as july 5. 1963.
. i ask unanimous consent to include in the record an outstanding analysis of the state of the free worlds monetary and trading system by thorkil kristensen. secretary general of the oecd. which appeared in the august issue of the oecd observer and a fine editorial prepared by harvey segal entitled "bankers.  theorists." which appeared in the september 2 issue of the washington post.
. the new york times. in an article entitled. "europe terms payments woes most urgent trading problem" dated september 11. informs us that the principal financial officials of the european common market agreed that before a new international payments machinery is developed the united states should solve its own balanceofpayments problems. i find the attitude of the continents central bankers rather puzzling. they fully understand that the existing international monetary system has serious flaws and that the new liquidity added to the system comes from the u.s. payments deficit. to the extent that we succeed in stemming our balanceofpayments deficitwhich we can do at willwe withdraw an equivalent amount of liquidity from the system. the principal losers will be western european countries who as a result of our deficit position are accumulating substantial dollar and gold reserves. a recent study by the executive commission of the eec indicates that the surplus of exports over imports enjoyed by the community is fast disappearing. while capital inflows from the united states have in the past offset eec trade deficits. the eec can depend on this source for relief for very long as this government is  developing a program which fully intends to bring a halt to this major contribution to our imbalance of international payments. thus. to my mind. it is as much in the interest of western europe as to that of the united states that an examination of the adequacy of the existing world monetary system be undertaken as soon as.possible with the view to institutionalizing the series of measures taken jointly by western europe and the united states during the postbretton woods period and to tackle the question of international liquidity on a careful and constructive basis. i believe this problem to be an extremely crucial one and have outlined by analysis of the situation during a senate debate on this very question on september 3. my own recommendationwhich is embodied in senate concurrent resolution 53is that the imfs annual meeting in october should mark the beginning of serious discussions of world monetary reform. i am most heartened to e that in addition to the british. who have been the foremost advocates of world monetary reform. proponents of reform are gaining adherents on the continent as well as among key administration officials. according to a new york times article of this morning a decision is expected to be made at next months annual meeting of the imf to conduct a formal study of the "liquidity" problem. and to decide whether reform of the international monetary system might be necessary to keep the world ecoy growing and trade expanding. i am most heartened by this news. it represents a tremendous forward step since the early part of this year when we were told by the secretary of the treasury that there is urgency in this matter and european central bankers went on record against consideration of the international liquidity problem and denied the theory that a world shortage of monetary reserves exists. the reported decision to undertake a study of this problem. possibly by the "paris club" of 10 leading industrial countries. represents a recognition on the part of the united states and other leading industrial countries of the west that there exists a world balanceofpayments problem. i ask unanimous consent that both new york times articles be inserted in the record at this point of my remarks.
. this plan deserves serious attention particularly at a time when foreign aid is under pressure in congress. private enterprise is eminently qualified to assist developing countries with the complex kledge required in modern production. distribution. and financing. i ask unanimous consent that the article which appeared in the new york times on september 17 on this subject be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
. i call the senates attention also to an article in the sunday edition of the washington post written by prof. robert triffin. one of the foremost advocates of reforming the imf into a world central bank with the power to create credit. the triffin plan. along with plans proposed by edward bernstein. max stamp. and the british chancellor of the exchecquer maudling and others. have been widely discussed for years. in this provocative article professor triffln. on the eve of the annual imf conference. once again calls for an institution empowered to create international credit to aid world ecoic growth on a inflationary basis. professor triffin believes that such a central reserve institution would lead to a more rational use of credit than is possible through bilateral and uncoordinated arrangements among central banks. the imf by anncing a yearlong study of the liquidity question has clearly recognized that the future is close egh to begin a thorough appraisal . the concurrent study by the 10 leading members lends great weight to this exercise. without the support and approval of these key countries. particularly the united states. such a study would be meaningless. i ask unanimous consent that the article by professor triffin. and a pertinent article from the wall street journal of september 30 be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
. as expected. the first fullscale study of the free worlds financial mechanism since 1945 was agreed to and annced yesterday during the annual meeting of the international monetary fund here in washington. the new study. which will be conducted in paris by highlevel officials of the 10 most industrialized members of the free world under the chairmanship of under secretary of treasury roosa. marks the beginning of major negotiations to see whether the existing system can be improved to accommodate the future needs of the free world for international credit. the first paris meeting of the 10nation study group will be in paris in early ember and is expected to be concluded in time for next years international monetary fund meeting in tokyo. as a strong advocate of an international monetary conference for a thorough examination of this very question i am gratified that this study is about to start. it is vital that the free world begin preparations  to prevent financial chaos that may result from inflexible monetary institutions and a shortage of credit to finance rapidly growing international transactions in the foreseeable future. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point an article from todays new york times entitled. "ten nations agree on a world study of money system."
i should like to ask the senator from vermont a rhetorical question: does he  think the american people would have much more respect for the foreign aid program if it were used in such a way that it did  preempt the resources that are used to fill in for resources in a particular country. resources which were then diverted to forward an aggressive military effort.
i thank the senator. i could  agree with him more. i point out what this "sense" resolution which is contained in the foreign aid bill . in the absence of a prohibiting amendment such as passed by the house. and which the senator from alaska and i will move in the senate. has resulted in. in the first place. it has provided surplus foods to the united arab republic. withstanding the fact that that country is sending troops into yemen and has interfered directly in the affairs of a revolution in yemen. with great mischief to us and our policy. and withstanding the fact that the united arab republic has committed aggression against saudi arabia. the senator from vermont has referred to the situation of algeria and morocco. both of which are receiving surplus food aid. the united arab republic is arming. it is buying arms openly from the soviet union. a report as recently as today indicates that the united arab republic is sending arms. planes. and troops to be ready to aid president ben bella in algeria. in his war with morocco. etheless. the united states continues to give aid to the united arab republic. moreover. president nasser. of the united arab republic. constantly reiterates that the one basis for arab unity is to drive the israelis into the sea and. by armed aggression. to eliminate israel as a state. he means it. as we k very well from the many demonstrable acts which have been taken in pursuance of that design. including the effort to subvert both jordan and saudi arabia. the effort to unite syria with the united arab republic. and the effort to bring about great egyptian influence in iraq and iran. that is what is popularly called nasserism. etheless. the u.s. aid program continues. our aim in the aid program is to assist free nations. that objective is lost when one nation which we are trying to help dissipates its resources in aggression or preparation for aggression against aher nation which we are also trying to help. it seems to me that. king what we face. we can allow that situation to continue. it is calculated. as the senator from vermont so very properly said. to depreciate the quality. character. and backbone of the aid program in the eyes of the american people. i hope very much that we shall be successful in having this amendment restored to the senate version of the bill. so that there may be agreement between the senate and the house upon this section. i should like to conclude as i began. we can rebuild the house of foreign aid while the house is being used. what we must do is to design a new building out of the present one. in my judgment. the new one must be based heavily on the private enterprise system. which has  been adequately used in respect to foreign aid. i welcome the senate committee amendments to accelerate and improve utilization of the private enterprise system. for. fundamentally. foreign ecoic aid is a business operation. and it can be carried on. and should be carried on. in the closest cooperation with american business. when the program is operated on that basis. it will gain the greatest respect from the american people. furthermore. by implementing our foreign aid through the operations of american business. we shall also enlist the great resources of american business. and thus will improve the ability of american business to make contributions both of brains and of tangible aid to this program. finally. 
. yesterday the social committee of the united nations general assembly adopted a very broad declaration on racial prejudice which is of great interest to the people of the united states. i ask unanimous consent that the declaration may be printed in the record at this point in my remarks.
i thank the senator. one of the things i should like to stress is the emphasis on the private ecoy in all its phases in the carrying out of the foreign aid program. i k the senator from minnesota feels keenly about this. it should be a matter of considerable satisfaction to the country that together. in a bipartisan way. we will endeavor to implement that particular commitment effectively. i k how seriously the senator feels about the obligations he undertakes. i think this should be an important item of consideration in the whole foreign aid program. a number of senators. including the senator from minnesota and myself. will join. in the most purposeful way. in seeing that a great partas great a part as is humanly possibleof the foreign aid program is carried on the shoulders of private enterprise. where it should have been lo. these many years.
. i shall be calling up in due time what i consider to be an extremely important amendment to the foreign aid bill. which i submitted last night bcause i felt it was much better to have it in printed form when i talked about it. it may have an effect on members of the senate with regard to a motion to recommit. which i shall oppose. as will the distinguished miity leader. and also toward the reorientation of the foreign aid program. i refer to my amendment  270. the purpose of which would be to establish an advisory committee on private enterprise in foreign aid. which would consider and report on whether great phases of the foreign aid program can be effected through private enterprise. that includes technical assistance. the recommendations of the clay committee call for this kind of approach. i am convinced that the reorientation of the program has  taken place. and that we have  adequately considered the utilization of facilities of the private enterprise system. this amendment. if approved. would be a major pledge that the program is to be reoriented toward the free enterprise system. which is the only way to place the program on the basis on which the american people want it to be placedthat is. out of government and into the private ecoy. i think it can be done. i shall debate my proposal when the time comes to offer the amendment. i have great respect and affection for the senator from oregon. i hope that sometime today it will be possible for me to deal with the two amendments which i do  put in the same class as the one i have been referring to. but which deal also with the private enterprise system. these deal with efforts to propel our country faster in the direction of arrangements under existing programs to utilize private enterprise and providing opportunities for private investment in the newly developing countries. i hope the senator will permit me to call up the amendments in accordance with whatever time arrangement can be agreed to.
in line with the statement made by the senator from kentucky . i believe it must be clear that in each of the efforts to shape our foreign policy. based upon our foreign aid program. there is hing doctrinaire or theoretical. we have a right to handle our aidbecause. in the first instance. it is unilateral aid from us to other nationsin such a way as to be most conducive to the policy we wish to pursue. distinctions arise when we try to find out whether a particular policy is productive or is counterproductive. when we consider the amendment of the senator from california [mr. kuchel]. which the senate adopted a short time ago. the question is whether it will facilitate or inhibit that which should be the policy of the united states. for that amendment makes clear that we will  tolerate any sense about arbitrarily extended territorial waters concepts. such as the ridiculous concept ofan extension for 200 miles. i believe it should be stated. in favor of the amendment of the senator from wisconsinbecause i believe it a very important ground rule for all of usthat in this case we are  dealing with a delicate international negotiation. such as those in connection with ecuador. peru. and other countries. but that in this case we must see through all the protestations and must determine what really should be our policy. and that even though we are kindhearted. we will  agree to help all nations. but that when our aid will be productive we shall be glad to have it extended. provided it is made clear that the attitude of congress is that it disapproves thoroughly any contrary national policy. on the other hand. when it is clear that the extension of our aid will become a desirable and affirmative factor in our foreign policy. i am entirely in support of the position the senator from wisconsin takes. i believe it desirable to make that clear to senators who might adopt. in regard to this amendment. a position different from the one adopted in regard to the amendment of the senator from california. even on that amendment i respect the view of any senators who voted the other way. i am only trying to lay down a ground rule. there is reason why we should  adopt restrictions. foreign aid is something which we are giving. lending. or holding forth. we should adopt restrictions which we feel are proper and necessary in order to make good the intent. purpose. and objective of our loans or our aid. but i believe that when a senator is convinced that it is counterproductive and that it will work in reverse. he has the duty  to support it. but when he feels that it will be an effective declaration of congress. and he feels that that in itself is a major factor in foreign policy. he has a duty to support it.
for decades. i have demonstrated. both by vote and by advocacy on the floor. that when it is necessary to lead. i am quite prepared to lead. one of the most unpopular positions i ever took was in 1956. when i felt the forces should be withdrawn from sinai. although there was a tremendous wave of sympathy throughout the world. and quite properly so. for israel. which had been at the point of destruction. if it had  done what it did. withstanding the fact that the promise made at that time by e other than president eisenhower that these provocations would stop. they never did. until united nations forces moved into the gaza strip. but laying that aside. let me ask a precise question: will the senator tell us how. if we adopt the substitute. the policy of the president and the state department will change the relationship to nasser.
in the first place. there is hing universal about the situation in latin america. on the contrary. the tide has turned in argentina and in peru. there is a much better situation in venezuela. there is a good situation in colombia. mexico is unique in achievements in latin america. my first answer is that there are positions of strength in latin america which can be buttressed and sustained. which should  be let go the way of others. second. the american business community is heavily involved in latin america today. if my memory serves me correctlyand i believe i am correctthe figure for american investment in latin america  is between $8 billion and $9 billion. with thousands of americans employed. there is a constant reinvestment of earnings. though the net investment  is only some $200 million a year. which is very small and one of the real disasters latin america has faced. so there is a big stake. and there are involved many persons who can accomplish constructive ends. third. it is conceivable that this program might be accomplished by private enterprise acting as an agency of the government. carrying out government contracts. there would be a great saving overhead for a bureaucracy. and there would be available the capability of persons who do  have to be trained for the job and who could be employed in the foreign aid program. for all those reasons. much as i join with the senator in deprecating the way certain latin american countries commit ecoic suicide when they destroy the climate for investment by private enterprise. i still think there remains an area and an opportunity for this kind of program to be effective.
first. the dominican republic is continuing the program of administering polio vaccine to children in the dominican republic. sent there through a coordination of the efforts of the u.s. government. united nations agencies. and private enterprise in the united states. so they have by means severed their relationship with our country when humanitarian considerations are at stake. i served for 8 years on the foreign affairs committee in the other body. and heard the discussions of the greece and turkey program and the marshall plan. i have added my name to this amendment because i feel very strongly about it. i agree with the senator that if we give the state department the opportunity to continue something. they probably will do so if we give them an "out." as the senator says. i believe these are very desirable programs on which to give them that opportunity. so i am  doing it with my eyes shut. i am doing it with my eyes open. and for this reason: for us. the application of the interest of youth is an extremely flexible and highly desirable instrument. almost every experience we have with young people is favorable. there are occasions when there are aberrations such as with respect to those who went to cuba. which was  good. generally speaking. we have found the peace corps. the educational exchanges. or the kids on the streets of moscow creating a "ferment" to be an extremely useful and flexible instrument for our side. therefore. i believe this is a necessary and a good amendment. which we should approve with our eyes wide open. realizing that the state department. will probably allow it in more countries than . that is all the more reason for doing it. because i believe these particular programs are extremely helpful. and have e of the drawbacks which the senator and others have found in the various aid programs that will be prohibited. as to food aid. we have made it very clear that though we forbid assistance we do  forbid food relief. in my judgment. matter how "naughty" any nation on earth has been. the american people would still have human feelings toward giving its starving people direct food relief. which is very different from assistance.
 stated that todays observance coincides with the 15th anniversary of the adoption by the united nations of the universal declaration of human rights and that the general assembly has called for special observance of this anniversary "in the hope that it may mark a decisive step forward in the affirmation of these fundamental freedoms." it would surely be a step forward in the affirmation of these fundamental freedoms if the united states could by law set the standard for discrimination on grounds of race. color or creed which is in good part embodied in the omnibus civil rights bill pending in the other body. on this day an attempt is being made to further progress on that bill by obtaining signatures on a discharge petition. and it would be a most fitting celebration of the event if the necessary number of house members joined in the petition. which in my view could eventually turn out to be one of the decisive steps in ultimate passage of that bill. one provision of law or series of provisions of law will itself guarantee the fundamental human rights which we today ho. but it is important to e on this day that it is the rule of law which underlies those rights. with law. setting an enforceable standard to which men may repair for guidance and support. there is greater likelihood of achieving in actuality and. soon in our domestic society. the precepts which we proclaim to ourselves and to the rest of the world.
subsequently said: . i ask unanimous consent that the amendment which i submitted earlier today for world bank assistance for united states railroads may lie on the desk for additional cosponsors until the close of business on friday.
 nasser live up to his promise to open the suez canal to the shipping of all nationshe still bars israels shipping to this day. we will continue to miss the boat in the middle east as long as the department of state refuses to accept the realities behind arab threats and confines its actions to pious intentions and quiet diplomacy. in this foreign aid appropriations bill and in the foreign aid authorization bill also. the congress has made its intentions on this issue crystal clear. and the department of state should carry out that mandate to the best of its ability. the arab boycott must be resisted as a threat to world trade and world peace. it will continue to spread only if we continue our soft policy toward it. yesterday. i pointed out the extent of the arab boycott in the united states. today. i should like to show the extent of its influence abroad. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the survey by clyde h. farnsworth- entitled "arabs ecoic influence wide" which was published in the new york times. december 15. also the report headlined "arab league assails britain over israel" which was published in the new york times. december 18.
. the appointment of ambassador mann to be in charge of our latin american program is critically important. we must have a highly efficient and single centered administration of the alliance for progress. i have the greatest of friendship for and confidence in ambassador mann. and i shall give him all the backing he needs. i make these recommendations to him for his immediate consideration. if the alliance is  to. fail. and if we are  to see great sections of latin america. where we stand in imminent danger. slip into the grip of communism and confound our policy all over the world. these recommendations should be considered with the utmost seriousness and should be put into effect at the earliest opportunity.
we are discussing the fact that the stability of the dollar is the base upon which world finance depends. our own operations show that we are carrying too big a load. either we must disengage ourselves from some of that load. with our allies. or we must find ways of financing it better than we have in the past. incidentally. like the senator from missouri. i am devoted to the foreign aid program and other programs. so i believe the answer is that we must find some way for greater burden sharing. and we must make efforts to deal with the problems of the general type the senator has described. with which other senators have also dealt. there is aher point which is quite important to the two senators who have spoken and to the majority. some of the most original and provocative ideas in this government are voiced on the senate floor. senators are pretty important people. at least. the people of the country so believe. they send senators back. in votes by the millions. for long terms. when a suggestion comes from the senate floor it seems to me that it falls like a stone in the sea. that is the end of it. executive department takes any interest in it. unless beaten over the head with an amendment or some hearing and compelled to pay attention to it. then they suddenly discover that ideas are presented. when the president makes a suggestion or when the secretary of some department makes a suggestion. we comment on it. we are interested. we see what can be done. we introduce bills. and so on. i hope very much that senators who have addressed themselves to this subject will use their influence with the executive departments. so that when ideas are proposed they will be given serious and thoughtful study and consideration. and we will get a reaction. to find out whether they are right or wrong and whether anything can be done in governmental policy. that is the least tribute that can be paid to such thoughtful. painstaking. detailed work and original thinking as evidenced by the presentation of the senator from missouri.
. but there are awards which the secretary of state can give to persons in the foreign service for service beyond the call of duty. one of them is the secretary of states medal. i hope mr. player will be considered for it. i hope the country will in some way recognize this fine act as symbolic of actions we hope for on the part of all members of the foreign service. and that mr. player will  be unduly modest about accepting some recognition for what he has done and for his commendable course of action.
. i should like to comment for just a few moments on what i believe to be a significant new development in the alliance for progress. as my friends in the senate k. i have had a long and intense interest in the problems and opportunities in the countries closest to us. i recently returned from europe. where i believe we made considerable progress in harnessing new resources from private sources for latin american development through the organization i had the ho to cosponsor kn as adela. there is question in my mind that what the alliance for progress has been lacking is multilateralism. it has been too much an american show. this is why i have been so interested in getting more european participation in the program. . the latin american countries and the united states have taken aher step forward in the. inevitable process of making this a true alliance. rather than merely aher foreign aid program. the 20 member nations have established a small. 7nation committee. to be headed by a distinguished latin american chairman. carlos senz de santamaria. finance minister of colombia. which can convert this program from a relationship of rich uncle and poor relatives to one of free and equal partners. the new group is designed to involve our latin american friends in the appraisal of each others progress and performance under the criteria of the charter of punta del este. instead of having this job performed by the united states. that way. it is more likely that judgments will be accepted in good grace rather than resented as dictation. the new group is also charged with making recommendations. based on the joint appraisals and analyses. on the resources each latin american country should generate for its development. and on the distribution of funds that become available from abroad. the european ecoic community. the organization for ecoic cooperation and development. and governmental organizations are invited to join the ciaps meetings. this is. of course. in addition to the interamerican development bank and other hemispheric organizations with an obvious and direct interest in the progress of the alliance. i believe this is a most healthy development. only by involving all member countries in the policymaking and coordinating work on a permanent basis will this become a true alliance. only by doing everything to draw other industrialized countries. especially those of western europe and japan. into the latin american development programs shall we succeed in generating the resources needed for the gigantic task we have set ourselves in this hemisphere. i hope that this new organization will so operate in carrying out its responsibility that this government. in making available u.s. funds. will be able to rely heavily on their recommendations. finally. only through such deep and constant involvement with us and the west european countries will our latin american friends come to fully realize the need to provide greater opportunities for private enterprise to do its share in the development process. the new multilateral group is indeed a welcome step forward. it will provide a forum  only for the 20 alliance members to weld themselves into a genuine team of builders. it will also be a useful means to attract others outside the hemisphere. and to galvanize private enterprise where contributions are indispensable for developing latin america. i hope that we will give the new group all the support it needs. i am confident that ted moscoso. who will represent us in it. and for whose ability and dedication i have the highest respect. is the best man we could have picked to give it that support. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record an editorial published in the new york times of february 2. entitled "new life in the alliance."
on this ination i would like to add that the u.s. information agency performs one of the most vital jobs in our government. and it is crucial that it be headed by an outstanding american. from what i k of him ambassador carl t. rowan will be a worthy successor to the distinguished new yorker. edward r. murrow. and i am delighted that ambassador rowans ination has  been confirmed.
. the 46th anniversary of the day in 1918 when the byelorussian democratic republic proclaimed its independence was celebrated this year on march 23. it marks the determination of an ancient people to maintain their identity apart from the russian conqueror and to keep alive the hope of eventual liberty and independence. under soviet domination the byelorussian people have been subjected to ruthless persecution. ecoic exploitation. and harsh oppression. their efforts to assert independence have been crushed by mass deportations. imprisonment. and executions. their hopes are with us. and we should continue to press the issue of freedom in the united nations and to focus world attention to the injustice suffered by the byelorussian people. they reflect the indomitable spirit of men who are willing to fight and die for freedom.
 of the american jewish committee who served as a consultant to the u.s. delegation to the san francisco conference that helped draft the charter in 1945. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record excerpts from the dag hammarskjold memorial lecture by jacob blaustein. entitled "human rightsa challenge to the united nations and to our generation." delivered at columbia university. december 4.
. ambassador henry cabot lodge has just written an extraordinary and important article for life magazine on the question of vietnam. to which country he is our ambassador. i think it is of such importance that it should have as wide a circulation as possible. i ask unanimous consent that it may be printed in the record at this point in my remarks.
s general advisory committee on disarmament and former u.s. high commissioner in germany. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record excerpts from an address by mr. mccloy. entitled. "some thoughts for 1964." which he gave before the new york chamber of commerce january 7 and which appeared in "war and peace report." march 1964.
. i am pleased that senator morse and senator humphrey. together with myself and senators beall and hartke. have undertaken to join with the senator from oregon. who is the principal sponsor. in the introduction of the bill. the senator from oregon. with his responsibility as chairman of the subcommittee on american republics affairs. will at least see to it that the bill receives the hearing it deserves. in essence. the bill seeks to provide the american investor with an opportunity. at a low pershare pricethe contemplated price is $5 a shareto raise $10 billion in peace shares. as they will be called. the idea is projected on the same scale as the marshall plan was projected. it will provide a massive amount of capital to be available at a specific time. the real problem with much of what we do in foreign aid is that we do it from year to year. that is endemic in our processes. our constitution. and our laws. although members of congress may think that the sums appropriated for foreign aid are a huge sum of money. when they are compared with what is needed in the world. they are very little. hence. foreign aid does  have much impact. so far as it goes. i am all for it. although the senator from oregon. as everyone ks. has grave reservations. but  we are joined together on the idea of introducing private enterprise into the u.s. foreign aid program on a major scale and providing. through this bill. an opportunity for individual american citizens to participate in this very important national effort. it is a unique and intelligently designed plan. the fundamental background of the bill is the work of my brother. benjamin a. javitsi am very proud that he should have developed such an ideain collaboration with leon keyserling. a wellkn ecoist and former chairman of the council of ecoic advisers. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks excerpts from a booklet written by benjamin a. javits and leon h. keyserling entitled "the peace by investment corporation."
. i invite the attention of my colleagues to an extremely important speech made by the managing director of the international monetary fund. mr. pierrepaul schweitzer. to the new york chamber of commerce on may 5. in this speech. mr. schweitzer. the head of the pivotal international organization in the world monetary system. put forward two ideas as to how the future liquidity needs of the system may be met through the imf. the first involves an increase in the quotas of member countries. this proposal has already been discussed widely and is the most likely reform to gain acceptance. the effect of this step would be to increase the availability of total monetary reserves to member countries by increasing their currency contributions to the fund. the second would involve a more farreaching ination. namely. acceptance by the fund of deposits and the introduction of investments at the initiative of the fund. both of these inations would result in significant expansion of existing world monetary reserves and the evolution of the imf toward a world central bank. i believe that it is significant that mr. schweitzer felt it necessary to publicly ackledge the need to increase world monetary reserves at this time. it adds great weight to the concern of those. such as myself. who expressed similar sentiments over the past months. his statement comes on the eve of the final phase of negotiations between the members of the 10nation "paris club"a group composed of the 10 most industrialized members of the free world appointed at last octobers annual imf meeting in washington to study the adequacy of the existing monetary system. their recommendations are to be submitted to the forthcoming annual meeting of the imfi in tokyo this september. along with those to come from an independent imf study. since the beginning of their study reports persisted of serious disagreements among the members of this group regarding the form and substance of proposals being advanced. it is rather important that prior to a revision of the existing monetary system there should be a full discussion and detailed negotiations so that everybodys interests are well considered in any new arrangements. nevertheless. the existence of the basic problem can be denied any longer. undersecretary of the treasury roosa. in his  famous article in the october 1963 issue of foreign affairs. clearly recognized the problem when he stated that there is need for a "systematic and searching appraisal of the international monetary system." to consider "whether a continuation of recent evolutionary changes or more sweeping reforms will be needed for the probable dimensions of future requirements." secretary dillon. in his october 1. 1963. address to the imf meeting also endorsed the study to be conducted by the imf and the paris club of nations. mr. schweitzers speech of may 5. recognizing the needs for additional international liquidity for the long haul. lends further credence to the advocates of reform. whether in the end increased liquidity will be achieved through increased quotas in the imf or through deposits at the imf or through a new composite international reserve unit. reportedly under consideration by the paris club. is immaterial. what is essential is that the suggestions for reforms that are to come from the two studies next fall should make it possible. under the circumstances  indicated which are quite different from those prevailing in 1946. to fulfill the most basic function of the international monetary system which is stated in section (ii) of article i of the articles of agreement of the imf: to facilitate the expansion and balanced growth of international trade. and to contribute thereby to the promotion and maintenance of high levels of employment and real income and to the development of the productive resources of all members as primary objectives of ecoic policy. the major shortcoming of the existing world payments mechanism is that though the system has demonstrated effectiveness in such a situation as the cuban crisis and the rejection of the british application for membership in the european ecoic community. when the international monetary system is confronted with the problem of the maladjustment of the free worlds ecoy. the corrective mechanisms of the existing system can be relied upon to operate quickly and effectively egh. major imbalances take years to eliminate unless they are corrected by measures which hamper ecoic growth or world trade. that is the fundamental dilemma which we face. the measures which we tend to take are measures which tend to hamper ecoic growth or world trade. what the worlds monetary system needs is a growing stock of international credit which would permit corrective action without penalizing one nation or one group of nations. and without disrupting international trade. i ask unanimous consent that mr. schweitzers speech along with an editorial from the washington post and articles from the wall street journal and the new york times commenting on his speech and on developments concerning the paris club studies may be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
 of the ford foundation and former chancellor of new york university. my alma mater. and sidney stein. jr.. an investment counselor. of chicago. ill. the committee will be supported by an adequate staff headed by a highly capable executive director. i flag this anncement as the single most promising development. in my judgment. in the whole foreign aid program of the united states since its very inception. this committee will be entitled to the encouragement and support of every member of congress and of the entire country. as well.
madam president. i call to the attention of the senate an article which appeared in the financial section of the new york times this sunday regarding a very important problem which has confronted the international monetary fund. due to the simultaneous existence of balanceofpayments deficits in the united states. the united kingdom. italy. and japan. the fund has begun to run short of the currencies it can loan to countries experiencing temporary balanceofpayments deficits. since it mally lends only the currencies of nations with payments surpluses. the fund can use the two most important international reserve currencies: the u.s. dollar and the british pound. this places increasing demands on the german mark. the french franc. dutch guilders. and belgian francs. which are available only in limited supply. in fact. the current problem has arisen because the fund has run short of these other currencies. there is crisis yet. but this new and unforeseen development underscores once again the need to take a new look at our international monetary system and to undertake reforms necessitated by the fundamental changes which have occurred in the communist world since the end of world war ii. when the present world monetary structure was erected. both the 10 "paris club" nations and the international monetary fund have been at work since last october in studying the socalled liquidity problemthe problem involving the adequacy of international credit that could be made available to countries in balanceofpayments difficulties. the problem  facing the imf makes it imperative that both studies concentrate their attention on the adequacy of international credit and in the foreseeable futureand on the need for structural reforms in existing international financial institutions. such ideas as increasing the quotas of imf members--a move that would increase the availability of international monetary reserves gradually. the farreaching proposals advanced recently by pierrepaul schweitzer. managing director of the fund. which would make possible the acceptance by the fund of deposits and the introduction of investments at the initiative of the fund. the idea of creating a new composite international reserve unit. reportedly under consideration by the "paris club" which would place a greater burden on the currencies of other industrialized countries. must be thoroughly explored. and those which are most workable implemented. even if they entail certain risks. i sincerely hope that the united states takes the leadership in the effort to reform the international monetary system. the present lull in the cold war. the recent improvement in the u.s. balance of payments. favorable ecoic conditions existing in most industrialized nations should be fully utilized to strengthen the strongest asset of the free worldits ecoic strength. without a dynamic international monetary system this ecoic strength will  be used to its fullest capacity. i ask unanimous consent that the article entitled "monetary fund is running short." written by edwin dale. and published in the new york times of may 31. 1964. be printed in the record.
. to recommend needed changes in existing financial institutions and to consider other pressing ecoic problems placed before the conference by a preparatory committee. i renew my proposal with the full realization that both the paris club and the imf are conducting studies regarding the adequacy of international monetary institutions and international liquidity. for what is needed is basic reform. and this requires a framework in which agreements can be made. i ask unanimous consent that professor tobins thoughtful article. as well as an editorial dealing with this subject. from the june 24 edition of the washington post. and an article from the june 22 edition of the new york times. be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
. i should like to have the attention of the senator from arkansas. if i may. i should like to propound a question to him. i would like to ask the chairman of the committee a question regarding section 301 (a) of the bill. h.r. 11380. i e that the bill proposes to extend through june 30. 1965. the life of the advisory committee on private enterprise. establishment of the advisory committee was required by an amendment to last years foreign aid bill which i was pleased to introduce. while it took some months to form the advisory committee. this has  been done under the chairmanship of  of the foreign relations committee whether it was the intention of the committee in striking out the language in the house bill to curtail the operations of the advisory committee in any respect.
. i call the attention of my colleagues to the report issued by the group of tenthe paris club composed of the united states and nine other industrialized nations of the weston the adequacy of international credit. this 10monthlong study is extremely important. as it constitutes the first basic examination of the world monetary system since it was established almost 20 years ago at the bretton woods conference. it surprised one that the financial leaders who have designed and operated the international monetary system concluded that there is at present sufficient international liquidity. and that sweeping reform of the monetary system is necessary at this time. they have agreed. instead. on issuing a series of recommendations which. while further improving the operation of the system. fail to provide a means to deal on a systematic basis with future monetary crises. on the key issue of how to generate additional reserves for the future. the group of ten decided to set up aher committee to study the various proposals advanced. and to report. without recommendations. within a year. to keep track of the various ad hoc arrangements. such as currency "swaps" carried out by the treasury. the group of ten established a multilateral surveillance system. to be coordinated through the bank of international settlements. it was also decided to strengthen the resources of the international monetary fund. through a moderate general increase in each members contribution or quota to the fund. it is understood that the increase in quotas will be in the range of 20 to 30 percent. the current contribution of the united states is $4.1 billion. so next year congress may have to approve a new u.s. contribution of $1 billion or more to the international monetary fund. such an increase will enable the imf to continue to assist nations in temporary balanceofpayments difficulties to maintain liberal trading policies. without imposing restrictions that could hurt world trade generally and prosperity. such an increase. however. would  alleviate the need for the provisions of additional international creditliquidityover the long term. i fail to see the superiority of the voluntary. temporary approach that is obviously preferred by the group of 10 to an approach leading to a systematically improved international monetary mechanism. while the transformation of the imf into a creditcreating international central bank patterned after the operations of our own federal reserve system is said to be premature at this time. the group of ten should give to the imf the power and resources to do its job of providing to its 102 members sufficient credit to maximize world trade and employment. this. also. it has failed to do. one has to look to the imfs independent study. also released today. for specific suggestions as to how major new international reserves may be created one such recommendation contained in the imf study is to give member nations virtually automatic access to a substantial percentage of their "quota." instead of only 25 percent. as . aher would enable the imf to make investments in national or international securities. which would have the practical effect of increasing the reserves of the nation issuing such securities. consideration of these proposals. of course. must await the next meeting of the funds board of govers. which is to take place in tokyo in midseptember. at a later date. i shall comment further on the two reports. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record an editorial from this mornings new york times. and articles from the wall street journal and the new york times. dealing with this subject.
. i ask unanimous consent that the name of the distinguished senator from minnesota may be added to amendment  1234. proposed by the senator from minnesota and myself as a substitute for the socalled dirksenmansfield amendment. amendment  1215. to the foreign aid bill  pending.
 to call for an international ecoic conference and to take initiatives with the imf to devise new and improved methods of permanently strengthening the international credit and monetray mechanism. although hearings have yet been scheduled by the senate foreign relations committee on the resolution. events of the past year fully bear out the need for early action. i ask unanimous consent that several newspaper articles and editorials pertaining to the tokyo conference be printed in the record. at the conclusion of my remarks.
. i shall be very brief. may i ask a question of the senator from arkansas who has just come into the chamber. i am told by the senator from iowa that he would rather have the senator from arkansas answer the question. i have just protested vigorously against the excision of the provision with respect to the persecution of jews in the soviet union from the foreign aid bill. can the senator from arkansasand his views prevailed in the conferencegive us the rationale with respect to this excision. why was this done by the conferees. was there any view on their part that this was  true.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record excerpts from an extraordinary article by the german ambassador to the united states written in aufbau. a germanlanguage newspaper in new york. explaining the situation. together with a letter from the state department.
. we have given precatory ice to the state department in the committee report. suppose that the state department does  act upon it. do we make aher request. and aher request. and aher request. at what time do we exercise our power if our requests are  hoed. i point out to the senator that we have been making this same kind of request for years and incorporating it in foreign aid bill after foreign aid bill. there have been recitals that the country involved should respect the peace and other people. respect transit through the suez canal. and respect the property of the united states. mr. nasser has treated such recitals like pieces of paper. and so has the state department. etheless. i would  have initiated this proposal. i doubt if i would have voted for the measure if it had come up as an original measure in the senate. i voted against the indonesia measure. as i stated earlier. this action seems to be so spontaneous. and would represent so little in the way of substantive breach. or break. or stoppage. that it would  be like showing all of our authority. one does  get a decision when these precatory recitals are  hoed. and they have  been hoed. to my personal kledge. for 10 years.
. the senate has confirmed the appointment of mr. thomas c. mann to be under secretary of state for ecoic affairs. mr. mann is a public official with whom i have had a great deal to do because of my work in respect to latin american ecoic development. i have seen him at his best as u.s. ambassador in mexico as well as a policymaker for latin america in washington. it is gratifying when we find in the diplomatic field a public official of skill. aggressiveness. and vigor. and at the same time one who has a capacity for that delicacy of handling and understanding which is so critically important in that field. i believe it is a blessing to our nation that a man who has been so proved in quality as tom mann. a foremost authority on latin american affairs. is  put into this critically important post. giving clear recognition to the fact that relations between the nations of the americas and an integrated western hemisphere has become a primary u.s. concern. this is the first and perhaps the strongest rampart of our security in the world.
 roosevelt and prime minister churchill. in the korean war. the general principles involved in achieving a settlement were declared. in my view. the general principles for hoable negotiationsand i state these specifically because we must get down to cases so that the american people are assured that we have an attainable objective in taking the tremendous risk which we are taking in south vietnamshould include: first. a ceasefire halting both the fighting in south vietnam and the air strikes against th vietnam. second. establishment of an international commission on vietnam to supervise the ceasefire. a prohibition against infiltration of arms or insurgent personnel into south vietnam or any compromise of the territorial or administrative integrity either of th or south vietnam. withdrawal of th vietnamese military and paramilitary personnel from south vietnam with implementation guaranteed by a peacekeeping force of the international commission or a composite force of the type utilized in the settlement in korea. and withdrawal of such united states and allied forces as will suit the type of settlement arrived at. third. establishment of a government in south vietnam with free institutions. perhaps guaranteed by the united nations or otherwise internationally guaranteed. and with provisions for imple.5932 menting a program of social and ecoic reform. which is crucial to the peace and prosperity of south vietnam. fourth. malization of trade and other ecoic relations between th and south vietnam. i point out with respect to this fourth point that south vietnam is the traditional granary for th vietnam and that there is a tremendous potential in the ecoic development of the mekong delta. what could be done by international financing of the mekong project could be of emous value to both parts of vietnam. of course. the give and take of real negotiations would temper any plan of this kind--elements would be added. subtracted. and modified.  do i assert that this is the onlyor even the bestsettlement plan. i put it forth merely as the kind of result which might be sought by negotiation. the purpose of the concurrent resolution is to show our willingness to undertake negotiations. but it takes two to negotiate. and one side may have to be convinced by the firmness and determination of the other that the bargaining table is the best solution. this is why i. and other senators. backed the firmness and determination manifested by the united states in recent weeks in our positive response to th vietnamese belligerency. coupled with this response. however. must be an indication that we are ready to negotiate. there are dangers in such a course as there are dangers in every course. the world is  a safe and easy place. and we can act at all if we are unwilling to act boldly and wisely. with ultimate faith in our own strength and purpose. the korean settlement reached with the communists after 2 long years of negotiation at panmunjom was . as was true of laos--though we took a risk in both casesa settlement we made only to have our hopes dashed. a settlement in south vietnam is. in itself.  contrary to our interests so long as it is  just the first step toward a communist state. we have  had total success with such solutions. but we have  had total failure either such a plan may contain disadvantages quickly evident to those who possess information  available to all.  the least of which may be that it is just  feasible. but it is  egh to respond to aggression. although that is required. it is  egh to express our determination to prevent the communists from taking over south vietnam. although that is our goal. we must also determine what kind of negotiated settlement we are prepared to consider and. without necessarily supplying the details. state its general principles to the world and. most important of all. to the american people. i close as i began. on the proposition that the greatest danger which faces us with respect to our policy. is a dangerous erosion of the support of the american people because they are unclear as to our objectives and how our policy should be working to attain them. i believeand i have suggested the way in which this can be donethat if we state our objectives. and they are limited and reasonable objectives. this will consolidate the american people behind the efforts of our government. which i am convinced are right. certain historic confrontations have taken place in the recent history of our country. there was one in berlin. there was one in cuba. today there is one in vietnam. each of these was tremendously portentous. containing the potential of a great world conflagration which. etheless. must be risked in the interest of freedom. if we are running great risksand they are great indeedthe least we can do is solidify the support of our own people. and of the people of the world. by outlining limited objectives and sticking to them. even if we do  have complete and final success. certainly we should stick to them as the basis of a settlement which we all k must be made to bring to a conclusion the trying situation in vietnam. i hope that these ideas will be considered by the administration and that we may soon clarify the issue and the development of our policy.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record an article entitled "pakistani named to new u.n. unit." by kathleen mclaughlin. which appeared in todays new york times. and an article by the hoable syed amjad all. entitled "trade status outweighs development assistance." which appeared in the february 26. 1965. issue of international banker and outlines pakistans ecoic progress and discusses the work of the united nations conference on trade and development.
. a recent letter to the editor of the new york times by my distinguished colleague on the joint ecoic committee. representative tom curtis. of missouri. emphasizes the need for new ways of providing adequate liquidity to finance world trade and payments. representative curtis points out that. while liquidity has been barely sufficient. the recent drying up of u.s. capital outflows has created shortages of capital severe egh to present the danger of a liquidity crisis. and to impel europeans as well as americans to make inations in present international monetary arrangements to avoid this possibility. i. and my fellow republican members of the joint ecoic committee. have introduced concurrent resolutions in both the senate and house urging the executive to convoke a wellplanned international conference to find solutions to the weaknesses of the world monetary system. such a conference would consider the correct role for the imf or other appropriate international organizations in the management of international credit. would consider how to supply credit to deficit countries in time to correct threatening imbalances. and how to increase the availability of longterm. lowcost credit to developing nations. i ask unanimous consent that representative curtis letter may be printed in the record.
. an article in the september 1964 issue of the monthly report of the united nations high commissioner for refugees has recently come to my attention. this article recounts the circumstances surrounding the death of frangois preziosi. who was the representative of the high commissioner in bukavu. the congo. and jean plicque. who was chief of the international labor organization zonal development project in kivu province. both international public selvants who gave their lives to the cause of international peace and an effective united nations. these men were killed by a rebel officer while they were attempting to prevent rwandese refugees from becoming involved in subversive political activities and to protect the refugees from harsh treatment by the provincial authorities. i ask unanimous consent to have this article printed in the record.
 will make it clear that our troops are there. until the oas acts. in a custodial character. to prevent a taking over that would be irremediable and could  be repelled by the organization of american states. which is the recognized authority for such a situation. and that the united states has  yet made a decision to proceed unilaterally. i do  believe we should face that decision until the organization of american states has first had the opportunity to declare that it will step into the situation and. second. had the opportunity to take juridical authority over the troops. just as the united nations did in the korean conflict. withstanding the fact that the preponderance of the troops there were those of the united states.
. i have sought this time to speak.  because i have any doubt that the charter revisions will be approved. but to say a word about the united nations. this amendment taking cognizance of the enlarged size of the u.n. is the first amendment to the charter which is being considered for senate approval and apparently will be approved. there has been so much question raised about whether the u.n. could last. and whether it could last here in the united states. that i believe we should say something about the u.n.s powers of endurance. it is my firm convictionand i believe the american people feel the same waythat we will  let the u.n. collapse for financial reasons. we may insist. as we may very well have to insist. upon certain proportions which we will pay and which we will  pay. it may be that we ought to be a little tougher about article xix than we have been. but we can and will  permit an organization which has served us so well for so long. and which is so vitally needed for the future. to have its capacity to act destroyed by financial considerations. the overwhelming majority of the 114 nations in the u.n. certainly wish to remain associated with the organization. more and more the world understands that we need a u.n.. even a u.n. that will have its peaks and valleys of influence and effect. that will be weaker at one time than it is at aher. at present it is in a difficult condition because of uncertainty as to how to deal with the many extremely complex problems of peacekeeping. but the fact is that the organization has had the vitality to last for 20 years. and nation seems to be in a hurry to "take a walk" out of it. except someone who becomes temperamental. like sukarnd he does  seem to be very much missed. it is clear that the united nations does have egh virility to act for peace upon important occasions. it did send troops into the congo. there is a great deal of argument about whether they did well or badly. but the united nations did send them in. it still has troops in the area between israel and egypt. it still has peacekeeping forces in cyprus. it is very much alive. it has a great deal of vitality and vigor in it. more important than anything else. it seems to be the determination of the overwhelming preponderance of the nations concerned to stay together in this kind of world organization. the present time is a valley for the u.n. it will have other valleys as time goes on. but it gives every indication of remaining a permanent forum for the debate of mankind in the effort to keep the peace. and a basis for the creation of some means by which the rule of law may replace the rule of force and by which armaments. as the senator from pennsylvania
. it is extremely desirable that this be done. the way i have redrafted the amendments. i do  believe they impose an unreasonable burden in the making of reports. the idea as it originally came from the chamber of commerce of the united states called for reports by the aidrecipient government. after consultation with representatives of its private sectors. i felt that that was probably an onerous requirement because it would compel our government to insist on reports from recipient countries. which might prove difficult in view of nationalistic pride or the -way many governments operate. by redrafting the amendments. the reports could come from aid itself. or it could get the reports from the recipient countries. but the important point is that there should be a report on the selfhelp program and the progress made under it and that it should be specified on a countrybycountry basis. it is a desirable element which congress should have. and is desirable in the administration of the foreign aid program. i have submitted these amendments to the manager of the bill. i hope very much. because of the distinguished source from which the suggestion comes. the leading business organization of the country. and in view of the fact that. as they are redrafted. they are quite reasonable in their reach. that the senator from arkansas will accept them.
madam president. ih this connection. it is important to e that congress contemplated a continuing role. in conjunction with the president. in the making of our vietnam policy. the intent of congress to maintain continued participation is most strongly evidenced by its explicit reservation of the right to terminate by concurrent resolution the joint resolution of august 10. 1964. congress having thus reserved this right. the time has  come to exercise it. when we seem about to enter upon a new dimension of the struggle  contemplated last august. madam president. i have explained the major sections of the joint resolution in colloquy with the senator from idaho . showing that it does actually accommodate the new situation which i have described by setting forth. first. our readiness and willingness to enter into negotiationsin which the vietcong or similar forces could conceivably play a role as part of the th vietnamese delegation. second. the objectives of the united states. which are confined to the situation in south vietnam and include acceptance of a settlement for neutralization of that area adopted in 1954 in geneva. and third. the acceptability of the united nations to the extent that it can feasibly act in this area in whatever role may be found best. especially with the hope of bringing about a ceasefire and the initiation of negotiations between the parties. first. this new resolution is needed because the resolution of august 10. 1964. is out of date. it was passed under wholly different circumstances. at a time when we were  bombing th vietnam as part of the defense against the vletcong. when the south vietnamese government looked relatively stable under general khanh. and when we were there at the request of such a government. the likelihood then of direct u.s. involvement in ground combat in a largescale struggle on the asian mainland was  anticipated. we were  then on the verge of committing ourselves to such a conflict. . second. the resolution is needed to provide a clear opportunity for the foreign relations and foreign affairs cornmittees to hold hearings in an attempt to bring out the relevant facts and clarify the issues. and an opportunity. too. for full debate on the floor of both houses undirected. sporadic debatesuch as we have had this morning and on other occasionsbut debate focused on specific language. carrying the responsibility of positive action. finally. the resolution is needed because the decisions  being made by the president are crucial. let us remember that great powers do  bluff. once a great power commits itself to a course of action. it can fail to carry through without serious consequences both at home and abroad. the united states can become directly involved in ground combat in south vietnam. reserving the right to change its mind later on. if things go badly. i have doubt that we will send in more troops. and more. and still more. for there will be turning back and we will be committed as completely as we were in korea. the real question is  whether we are willing to send aher 21.000 troops to vietnam to help the south vietnamese during this summers monsoon rains. it is whether we are prepared to send some hundreds of thousands of our troops into combat. as we did in korea. if necessaryfor it may become necessary. it is whether we are ready to face the american casualties of a long. drawt land strugglefor we may have to. it is whether we are prepared to risk a confrontation with communist china or the soviet union. for we may have to. the president may have the legal authority to make these decisions. but as a matter of policy they should  be made by him alone. without congressional approval and support. the president should  risk leading the nation. step by step. into a major conflict from which there is hoable retreat without a clear mandate from the people and a united and determined country solidly behind him. an outofdate resolutionand that is what the resolution of august 1964 is--is  egh. neither is a gallup poll. we are on the threshold of crucial decisions. with large segments of the people anxious and uncertain. restive and confused. the probing and informed debate which the resolution i have introduced is designed to stimulate would contribute immeasurably to a better understanding of the whole vietnam conflict and the proper role we can play in that part of the world. for there are still a great many nagging and worrisome questions unanswered. and a great many fears to be laid at rest. some of the important questions which need to be answered. always consistent with security considerationsand i am confident that it can be done that wayare these: first. what is the exact nature and extent of the new combat responsibilities our forces are assuming in vietnam. second. what is the nature and area of the conflict as  contemplated. third. is it clear that the people of south vietnam still want us there. that is a very critically important question. fourth. at whose invitation are we  participating in the struggle there. fifth. what do the people of southeast asia and other parts of asia think about the escalation of our involvement in this conflict. sixth. how much help are we getting from our allies. especially our seato allies. and what is the likelihood of getting more help. seventh. what practical possibilities exist of regional or united nations action with respect to vietnam. we hear a great deal about the secretary general going out there. what. indeed. can the u.n. do. let us remember that when the security council voted to undertake the responsibility of the conflict against the th koreans. the russians. for the moment. were  on the security council. and therefore  able to cast a veto. eighth. how much help are the communist getting and where is it coming from.
madam president. i join my colleagues in this tribute to adlal stevenson. i am deeply shocked and grieved by his sudden passing. i knew him well. for many years he lived in new york city. i visited his home. and he visited ours. i often had contacts with him in connection with his work as u.s. representative to the united nations. in a moment like this. everything is laid aside except the kledge that his was one of the most eloquent voices that freedom has ever kn in all mankinds history. as the distinguished senior senator from colorado [mr. allotti has said.  only was adai stevenson a brilliant man. his brilliance found a remarkably gracious. memorable. and even unique expression.  only in the united states. but throughout the world. perhaps the greatest tribute we can pay to so distinguished an american. who literally laid down his life for the cause of our countrys advancement and for freedom in the worldbecause he really did hing else but work in the last 10 years and. i k. for years before that. when i did  k him so wellis to say that he was in every sense of the word the representative of the united states at the united nations. that great world hope for peace and rule by law instead of rule by force. every american can be proud that adla stevenson epitomized in his person and in his advocacy what every american would expect of the voice of the united states in the united nations in its expressiveness. in its idealism. in its practical content. and in the great influence which he had upon his colleagues and upon the representatives of other nations by the sheer force of his character. intellect. integrity. and ideas. american. regardless of party. need stint in any way in praise and tribute to adlat stevenson.
i agree with the senator on the fundamental proposition that it is high time the basis of the worlds credit should cease to be sterile gold. he has properly taken into account. withstanding how we as a government feeland we must take into account the views of the central bankers and other financial people in the worldthe proposals of such eminent ecoic experts as triffin. bernstein. and stamp. let me ask the senator this question. because it is extremely important. and i k that he is helping senators like myself. the senator from iowa . the senator from indiana . and others who wish to see an international monetary conference called: is the senator as disquieted as i am by the fact that the administrations proposal for a call is merely a call. and that the administration does  seem to be prepared as yetand i emphasize that word "prepared" so that perhaps we can nudge them into itto lay before the countries of the world some profound proposal. in view of this. i ask the senator whether he does  believe that we should. with the same forthrightness and with the same vigor. considering the power of our ecoy. nudge the administration into thinking seriously about whether it should make a major proposal upon which the world will meet. then we shall have a meeting. instead of the danger of an ecoic conference such as the one president roosevelt contemplated in 1933 which never came off.
i have a feeling that we have been rather timid in pressing for international monetary reform. i believe that the voluntary restraint program annced by the president in february was ill advised in terms of the longrange interests of the united states. we acted with too much haste.
. of the many independence day celebrations held across this land on july 4. there is e of which we can be more proud than the department of state reception hosted by the junior officers of our foreign service. it is a july 4 tradition in the department of state that its historic reception rooms be turned over to the junior foreign service officers who host a reception for the junior officers of 114 foreign missions in washington. two aspects of this reception warrant attention. first. the affair was of cost to the taxpayer. all expenses were met by donations in money or kind from companies across the country. second. the reception emphasized the great products of our culture and industry. only american food and beverages were served and displays of american art were placed about the rooms. our foreign service officers are to be commended for the pride they show in their nation and its achievements. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the names of the companies and organizations that helped make the fourth of july reception so successful.
 with an opportunity to strengthen and change the direction of the foreign aid program in a very significant way. so that members may be aware of what has been accomplished in this exemplary way. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record the chairmans summary of the report of the advisory committee on private enterprise in foreign aid. together with the recommendations as extracted from the report. the names of the committee members who. i think. should be hoed by every person in the united states. and those who have been a tremendous aid to them in this effort.
 and  tie his hands. and we should back the united nations in its effort to end the fighting. and thus maintain a consistent. unified policy. i am pleased to e that this is a bipartisan concurrent resolution. it is the great tradition of our country that we close ranks in international emergencies. that is what this resolution seeks to accomplish.
. the secretary of the treasury. and the secretary of state to give their careful attention to the proposals contained in my august 12 speech. anyone who carefully analyzes the british ecoic situation can see that the principal contributing factors in britains current balanceofpayments crisis and the need for britain to deal with this crisis through drastic. deflationary action are due to longterm fundamental factors that must be corrected so that sterling will continue to play its present major role in the international monetary system. the willingness of industrialized countries. both last ember and again a few days ago. to come to the aid of the pound indicates a recognition of the key role of the pound in the existing international monetary system. what must be done  is for the industrialized countries to begin immediate consultations with britain as to how these countries could contribute to a fundamental correction of britains basic ecoic woes. i ask unanimous consent that copies of articles appearing in the british press concerning my proposals. as well as recent articles from the american press concerning the state of the pound sterling. may be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
 johnson and to united nations ambassador arthur goldberg for the part they played in avoidance of what could have led to the terrible conflagration of a war much broader than the conflict between india and pakistan. and in the revival of the role of the united nations in a most significant way. i am. grateful to the senator from montana for his comments.
 were a member of my party or that of the opposition party. as he is at this time. just as students rioted in karachi against the usis building because they instinctively felt that the united states was an influence in the balance of the u.n.. i think we should instinctively feel that the u.n. has had a great victory. let us  jeopardize it. the day after it has had such a victory. this country being the united nations greatest supporter. by spanking some of its participants. perhaps they should be spanked. but it would be unwise for us to do it. therefore. i hope. in the interest of the united states. that the amendment will be defeated. i would  have stood and made this statement. were it  for the fact that i had this familiarity with the greek and turkish situation.
. as a congressional observer of the u.s. delegation to the current annual meetings of the imf. ibrd. ida. and the ifc. i have been following closely the positions taken by key members of the group of ten toward reform of the international monetary system. in view of the growing concern of my colleagues as well as the general public with regard to this subject. i ask unanimous consent that the communique issued by ministers and govers of the "group of ten" on september 28 as well as the statements made yesterday by secretary henry fowler. united kingdom chancellor of the exchequer james callaghan. and french finance minister giscard destaing may be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
 johnson annced the appointment of former assistant secretary for interamerican affairs. jack hood vaughn. as the new director of the peace corps. i take this opportunity to commend mr. vaughn for the outstanding job he has done as assistant secretary during a very difficult period in united stateslatin american relations. he brings to his new post a wealth of experience and understanding drawn from an outstanding academic background. a long association with our foreign aid program. as organizer of the latin american programs for the peace corps. as ambassador to panama. and as assistant secretary for interamerican affairs since i k secretary vaughn personally and find him to be a dedicated public servant of great ability. charm. and dedication. as assistant secretary he worked with great dedication to strengthen american relations with our latin american neighbors during a very critical period following the eruption of the dominican crisis. and worked hard to strengthen our common bonds through the alliance for progress. i am pleased that the peace corps. such a vital and important element in our foreign relations. will be in the hands of such an effective director.
. i call to the attention of my colleagues an article which appeared in the new york times the story reports the views of prof. peter b. kenen of columbia university. an authority on international monetary affairs. on the effects on world commerce of the restrictive balanceofpayments measures taken by the administration. his principal point is that. while these measures are steadily eliminating our balanceofpayments deficit. they are also causing a retreat from the objective of a freer and healthier world ecoy. this has been the basis of my own opposition to many of the measures proposed by the administration and my support for the early reform of the international monetary system. it has been my view that we are sacrificing a very important longterm goal of american foreign ecoic policy. namely. the gradual elimination of barriers to trade and capital. for a conflicting shortterm objective. namely. the complete elimination of our balanceofpayments deficit. professor kenen believes that the administration is only partially to be blamed for the controls that it imposed. he places most of the blame on the existing international monetary system which. as professor kenen says. "is long on discipline and short on credit creation to aid deficit countries" so that it encourages "the use of trade controls. overt or covert. impairing ecoic efficiency in the world as a whole." this is well borne out by data issued a few days ago by the imf which indicates that international reserves. which had grown steadily for years prior to 1965. have grown very little in 1965 and may have even stopped growing. in this same connection. i ed with interest secretary of commerce cons anncement on monday that the voluntary balanceofpayments program should be ended by february of next year. whether or  this anncement means that the administration is coming around to the viewpoint that the continued imposition of these voluntary controls is harmful to the american ecoy or whether it has come to the realization that these voluntary controls. in the absence of fullscale exchange controls. will decrease in effectiveness. i am  in a position to say. the fact that we have controls only strengthens the position of those countries who still maintain exchange controls. such as many of the continental european nations.  that the united states has demonstrated its ability and willingness to reduce its balanceofpayments deficit. our first and urgent priority should be the reform of the international monetary system and the devising of new mechanisms for the adequate creation of international reserves. further restrictions by the united states and other developed nations can only lead to more restrictions and the eventual jeopardy of the existing ecoic order. i ask unanimous consent to have articles from the new york times pertaining to my statement be printed in the record.
 of the united states has moved to rectify the situation by the appointment of a deputy u.s. envoy "to take full charge" of military aspects of the struggle in vietnam. this important job has been given to deputy ambassador william porter who. i hope. will be given powers commensurate with his responsibilities. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record an article written by ward just which was published in the washington post this morning.
. with the indulgence of the leadership. i should like to say a word about the measure which is  pending before the senate. the authorization for foreign aid. i trust the record will show this as a part of the debate on the foreign aid bill.
 authority to plan our foreign ecoic aid program for a period of at least 2 years. for many years . distinguished leaders of business. the academic world and government have testified before the committees of congress urging the adoption of a policy of multiyear authorizations for foreign aid to increase its efficiency and to permit aid recipients to plan their own efforts more effectively. i agree with this approach. i disagree with those who hold that approval of multiyear authorizations would result in the lessening of congressional control over foreign aid. checks are available through the appropriations process and by retaining the right to terminate any aspect of the program. should there be proper justification. i think we are binding our -hands in an unwise manner. and i think it is time that we came to a new conclusion.
i hail the senators suggestion. it is very hard for .a senator to pat himself oft the back. so i would like to pat the senator on the back for his very constructive suggestion. i hope the president follows it up. i hope u thant follows it up. it is true that there has been fighting there. but there was fighting in the congo when the united nations intervened. there have been observers on the line between israel and syria.. we k of the heroism of the colonel who served thd u.n. in israel. who was killed. we remember that hammarskjold was killed during a mission to the congo. i think. in order to complete the package. we should have an additional condition. and i hope we can get support for it from the president and others concerned. that there be an offer of a ceasefire during the election. i do  think we have too much to worry about a few vietcong getting out of their vietcong pajamas in which they fight into their other pajamas in order to vote. i think that such a ceasefire might be a good exercise in the direction of what we seek to achieve in vietnam. i hope the administration will give considerable thought to that suggestion in order to complete the package. the elections should be supervised by a disinterested international organization. i hope the united nations will accept that responsibility. and that there will be a reasonable ceasefire. there was a ceasefire in vietnam for a religious holiday. i think an election is a very reasonable time for a ceasefire as well. in that way there could be *a. good framework for a fair election. the election is  going to be perfect. whether good. bad. or indifferent. it will give an opportunity to let the south vietnamese express themselves as to what they want done with their own country. the ceasefire could be unilateral. - if it were so. we could suspend our operations contingent upon security considerations even if the other side did  agree. and it is quite possible that it might. i congratulate the senator from connecticult on his farsighted suggestion on the opportunity for the people to have a real chance to give expression as to what they want done with their own affairs. this is. after all. the main reason we are in vietnam.
i thank the senator. who is very capable. and king him and loving him as i do. it was my feeling that we would have to put this one to the test. because it is so important. i do  think there should be any room for doubt about it. i value very much the intercession of the senator from kansas . he is always most helpful and gracious. i agree that the foreign aid program in its present form is inadequate. principally because the total impact. in terms of public and private capital flowing to underdeveloped countries. is vastly below the needs of developing nations for development capital. this is a failure in terms of direct assistance and tends to encourage the flow of private capital and increased aid contributions to industrialized countries. one of the prime arguments for multiyear authorization is the ability to get increased aid contributions from other industrialized countries. the 10 principal aid givers in the world are members of the oecd and when you ask for more or for their part you are met with the argument: who ks what the congress of the united states is going to do next year. therefore. why ask us. why  see what your congress is going to do. this hampers and cripples the effort of the united states to bring up the level of countries. the level of countries needs eventually to be brought up. the united nations goal is that each industrialized country should make 1 percent of its national income available for assistance. we are 15 percent short of the ecoic aid the world needs to make reasonable progress. gatt is increasing.  being lost. about 1 percent on the part of the united states would mean twice as much aid as authorized by this bill. something in the neighborhood of $6 billion. in respect to italy. its aid is fifteee hundredths of 1 percent of italys national income. in the case of japan it is onethird of 1 percent. in the case of canada it is about .39 of 1 percent. in the case of the united kingdom it is more like our own. threefourths of 1 percent. france is well over 1 percent1.26 percent. these deficiencies.  to his proof in this matter and indicate our displeasure with the way in which the situation with mr. nasser has been handled by the united states. and the inadvisability of continuing aid which has worked out in such a counterproductive way so far as the interests of this nation are concerned. finally. i shall propose an amendment with respect to the inclusion of an excellent provision in the house bill for an international private investment advisory council. to be composed of elements of leading american business specialists. to make recommendations to the administrator of the foreign aid program in connection with particular programs and activities where private enterprise can make an effective contribution. and serve as liaison for the administrator with specific private enterprises which may be interested or involved in the foreign aid program. i shall do this to help implement the emous. and i hope. historic labors of the socalled watson committee which came into existence through an amendment which i sponsored to the senate bill 2 years ago which. in a magnificent report. developed exactly what needed to be done to bring private enterprise more effectively into foreign aid. certainly. foreign aid needs it most urgently. i have reports from aid as to the implementation of the watson committee report. i shall introduce them when i argue for this amendment. i think the amendment is indispensable to the health of this bill and its future. i hope very much the committee on foreign relations will see fit to accept it. it certainly deserves to be accepted. rather than to be argued about. but i am quite prepared to bring the matter to a vote. if need be. because of the fact that it is so directly calculated to deal with the implementation of the report of the distinguished watson committee to which i have referred but i shall be ready. at a later time this aftern. to bring up the amendment on an international private investment advisory council. i shall  prepare to do it for about an hour. but i .shall be prepared thereafter. i suggest to the manager of the bill that other senators may wish to speak at this time. but i shall be back to present at least that amendment. if it meets with the convenience of the manager of the bill.
may i say. in response. that one country that immediately comes to mind is the german federal republic. the german federal republic has what is in effect a mixed publicprivate corporation which is capitalized. it is conducted on a capitalized basis. with its capital periodically refreshed. to deal with its aspects of foreign aid. the foreign aid program in germany is working quite well. we have some violent objections to itand we are rightbecause of the fact that the germans have tried to augment what they are actually doing in foreign aid by crediting to it a great many of the loans they make for exports. as we do in the exportimport bank. and generally for relatively short terms. it is my understanding that both canada and the united kingdom enter into loan agreements with developing countries for periods up to 5 or 7 years without parliamentary approval. so. laying aside the question as to whether their contribution to the worlds problem is adequateand it is i am the first to affirm that it does. however. operate on a periodic renewal capital basis and on a permanent basis. rather than on an annual basis. as we do. perhaps the chairman of the committee could help us with a statement of fact. unfortunately. i can immediately give the answers for the other dac countries. but as to the german situation. i k about it first hand.
as a practical matter other nations upgraded their participation in foreign aid and in some cases are contributing rather important shares of their gross national product. i am trying to find the details. as i recall. the united kingdom is about seventenths of 1 percent. the united nations recommends that industrialized countries contribute 1 percent of the national income to foreign aid. the united kingdom is about.the same amount as the united states. italy is down the scale. they have been improving in foreign aid. germany is near it. in fact. germany had foreign aid program until a few years ago. there have been contributions which have been increasing. this is the subject of negotiations in the development assistance committee. where these matters are constantly being negotiated all of the time. we have a special consortium for a country like turkey. that situation is always changing. i think that i k about the operations of these agencies. this will have a material effect. as the senator from rhode island pointed out. it does  hurt us and why should we  try to help ourselves. we can pass on the appropriation. we can cut it down. and we can do anything we like.
i conclude by pointing out one other thing. secretary rusk. in testifying before the committee. pointed out that there had been some improvement. but  nearly egh. in the contributions of other countries. he pointed out. at page 102 of the hearings. thattotal bilateral aid commitments from other dac dosthat is the development assistance committee of the oecdhas grown from $1.8 billion in 1960 to $2.5 billion in 1964. he added that we were making some progress. but that it was  nearly great egh. so i press upon the senate the fact that in passing this amendment. we will  only be aiding ourselves in terms of the efficiency of the operation. but also very materially contributing to our negotiating posture in getting greater aid from other countries. which is so urgently required for the total situation. 
. without some participation by us. matter how minimaland certainly the participation i propose is minimalsome share in the decisions taken with respect to this critically important matter which is so vital to the future of latin america. indeed. the real danger in these situations is that in the continued erosion of the hope and the faith of the people in the viability of democratic government and by the comparative ease with which successive coups can follow. their faith can be broken by the frequent or prolonged absence of democratic experience. see what dictatorship did to the dominican republic through blood baths. see what dictatorship of the military has done in argentina itself within the last decade. since peron left. even he himself was the product of a military coup and fixed a dictatorship on the country for years. a dictatorship which almost broke the countrys back. in ecoic and social terms. see what argentina itself has endured during the last 10 years. its government. since the fall of the dictator in 1955. has been unable to break the strength of the peronist movement. but has reached a compromise with it that is acceptable to the armed forces. the government of argentina apparently has been unable to handle the armed forces there. so this is a very sticky wicket. as the saying goes. i have illusions that my amendment. if adopted. will end that kind of situation. but it is high time that we began to express ourselves clearly and unequivocally upon this subject. especially in the desire to preserve representative government. which is what we as a congress should seek to obtain. a few years ago. a somewhat similar amendment was adopted to a foreign aid bill. but it fell in conference. i sincerely hope that the bitter experience of the last few years on this subject will enable whatever amendment the senate decides to adopt in this field to survive conference.
i think perhaps it would help senators. including the senator from iowa. if i read into the record the declaration of the ongania regime which i think is pertinent to this debate. i have three statements here. we have checked and tried everywhere for as much information as we could obtain on the attitude of the ongania government on this question. first. on july 9. 1966. when president ongania addressed the nation at san miguel de tucuman. he stated in part as follows: to this end we shall give each citizen the opportunity to feel himself master of and responsible for his own destiny: social and political peace. making possible harmonious solidarity without petty divisions. security. so that sudden fears shall  weaken labor. justice. so that the fruit of our effort shall  be wasted in privileges and so that we may all feel united in our common labor. true freedom. in order that intelligence and enthusiasm may create without restrictions our great national future. then. in a subsequent statement. on july 12. he gave assurances in response to matters which had been laid before him. of the fact that he would  abide by having extremist groups in the country which do  hide their threats. thereby seeking to provoke artificial divisions in the argentine family. thus distorting the image of the nation. he was laying down what we in this country would call civil rights and civil liberties in that regard. finally. on july 13. 1966. he stated as a basis of his internal policy his desire to formulate the bases necessary for the reestablishment of representative democracy which corrects preexisting political deformations. but in e of these declarations does the de facto president as a result of a military takeover give the assurances which are called for by the organization of american states in resolution 26. to which we are a party. which was adopted on ember 30. 1965. at the second special interamerican conference in rio de janeiro. i should like to read into the record the pertinent aspect of that resolution. because it is so pertinent to the present discussion. i read from document  150 of that conference. first i ask unanimous consent that the whole resolution be printed in the record at this point.
. it will be ed that i have transposed into my amendment precisely the condition of consultation and assurances by the de facto government which are called for by the resolution. i should like- to close this part of my direct presentation by calling attention to the fact that. in my own view. the most critical part of the amendment is the recognition of the consultative aspects in the relationships between the american states. with the dignity attendant thereon. there is  a requirement of carrying on and consulting with the other american states in a deliberate way and in arriving at whether. with respect to a de facto government. we should have relations and give it aid. or determining whether it is  a de facto government without the assurances which would warrant our giving it aid. i think it is a tremendous element of strength in the interamerican system that we adopted this principle. matter how we may finally work out this matter. the basic principle of calling for consultation with the other american states with respect to these matters gives strength and diginity to the organization of american states and the other members who participate. with that statement. i shall end my part of the debate at this time. i think the senator from arkansas may wish to interject his comments anc. deal with this amendment in the way he thinks it ought to be dealt with.
. senator cooper and i talked about whether we should intervene. as he represents kentucky. the buffer state. he has decided for both of us that we should. i should like to say. very briefly. that i believe it is good and salutary and healthy to be called back to our origins. as senator cooper has said. i have been in this program ever since the marshall plan days. by tricks of fate. though i was the. freshman on the foreign affairs committee of the house of representatives. i was one of the managers of the original marshall plan bill. with dr. eaton. chairman of the committee. i feel that we were particularly lucky with respect to the marshall plan. in that that dealt with the impact of an emous sum of money. we committed $17 billion for 4 years. at a relatively narrow target of very highly industrialized and skillful people. and all the mechanics worked. i believe this is very illustrative and is a good object lesson of what the senator from new york has been talking about. for this reason: we have a duty in this regard. that is really what he is saying. i believe we have a duty. and to my mind the duty remains paramount.  to let the gap between the poor and the less poor in any way grow so great as to be a moral outrage. that is really what we are engaged in. in addition. we hope thereby to bring most of the nations into the techogy of the modern day. i might say to the senator from new york that the trouble has been that we have been very inartistic. we have lacked initiative. we have lacked imagination in how this has been done. and we in congress have been a lot to blame. in so harassing the successive administrations that they never really had the time and the disposition to get down to attempting to work out a better plan. one of the reasons i am for a multiyear authorizationand. i hope that is what will result from conferenceis the sheer elementary ability to allow the executive department to catch its breath and to take a totally new look at a totally different plan for foreign aid. there are many component parts of that. especially the private enterprise part. i am grateful to senator fulbright for having worked constantly with me over the years in the repeated private enterprise amendments. in the effort to bring private enterprise into effective participation in the foreign aid program. which has  yet been done. i might also say that other ideas. like the executive service corps of our older executives. the greater utilization of the peace corps and of technical assistance generally. the idea of consortia of receiving nations as well as consortia of giving nationsall these ideas have  adequately been explored. finally. i point out that foreign aid can stand alone. the world today is hung up on a cross of gold. in terms of international trade. britain is having tremendous problems with the pound. unless contemporaneous efforts are made to help to deal with those massive problems. amount of foreign aid would help in many of the underdeveloped areas. yet. there has been emous progress. there would  be even this much of a gap between the rich and the poorthe gap would be infinitely greaterhad it  been for foreign aid. i therefore say this to the senator from new york: i believe the burden upon him and others who have spoken in general support of that position is  to show that this method is the best. that it is the optimum. that it has been completely successful everywhere it has been used. it is to show that it is necessary. and to show that on balance we are better off doing it than  doing it. i think the burden has been overwhelmingly maintained by the people on our side. i beseech those who are the most ardent opponents of it. whether they have in mind the arguments senator cooper has said they have in mind--opposition to the vietnam war or the traditional opposition to foreign aidor whatever motivates themto recognize the intelligence of giving an interregnum of some form of multiyear authorization which would allow us at least to be able to ask. with reason. for a totally different approach. for a different way of handling it. for a more efficient and a tighter ship than has been run up to . but even with the losses we have hadi believe that we are probably wasting somewhere in the area of 10 to 20 percent of foreign aidon balance it is still absolutely indispensable to the future of america. to the security of america. and to americas moral obligation to the world. i join my colleagues in expressing to the senator from new york. as his colleague. my satisfaction that he has sparked debate upon this high level of the basic principles which it is always necessary to repair to.
 in advance planning for the foreign aid program. matter how some may delude themselves as to the proposition that foreign aid will be over shortly. it will . i have been in congress since 1948. and have voted on foreign aid every one of those 18 years. with the exception of two when i was attorney general. we do  k when it will end. we only k it will continue as long as the need persists. instead of kidding ourselves. and doing it on an annual basis. there have been many efforts to put our planning on a longrange basis. i have tried. for example. in the matter of private enterprise participation in foreign aid. to proceed in much this way. in fact. we have an amendment to this bill in the senate which was adopted and which would do precisely that as far as private enterprise is concerned. the junior senator from new york. my colleague. is trying to put the planning on an overall basis. i think it is a most estimable effort. and i hope very much the senate will support him in it. and that it will be seen for what it is. an effort to accept reality and to put the future planning of our foreign aid efforts on a sound and continuing basis.
. the senator from missouri and i generally agree. i must enter a demurrer . as we lawyers say. for this reason: the world bank was a great ination and an extremely efficient institution as far as the united states was concerned. it marshalled emous amounts of capital from other countries in the world. whereas when i came on the scene in the late 1940s. we were carrying this load alone. therefore. i do  believe we should be too quick to jump with both feet on the world bank. which has made an enviable record of performance. it is making money. as a matter of fact. as far as the hard loans are concerned. it is a most admirable institution. and it has helped us very much.
a relationship between such a group of industrialized nations and developing countries would have to be established. what remains of the commonwealth with which britain is allied could be accommodated in that kind of trade deal. i hope that they will discuss this possibility as well. as i have suggested before. oecd nations could finance an arrangement over a period of timesay. 10 yearsand. further. to help modernize britains ecoic plant with contributions from the united states and other oecd nations which can afford it. without modernization of key sectors of the british ecoy. management. and labor practices. britain will continue to face major competitive problems. international monetary reform is closely related to the problems of the pound sterling. which. together with the u.s. dollar. finances twothirds of the worlds trade. britain needs some form of international monetary reform to take us off the international cross of gold. to which we are pinned. it is to our interest that there should be more than two currencies. carrying the load of international trade. these are practical matters. i hope very much that the president will make it clear to prime minister wilson that we have an interest in our british ally. and that we intend to help her.  by forcing help upon her but by responding to the kind of help she feels that she needs. i suggest these subjects today as proper subjects in which to broaden the discussion between president johnson and prime minister wilson. . i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point the text of a telecast made by prime minister harold wilson in london. on july 20. 1966. an article entitled "laborites abandon goal of 25 percent gain in ecoy". an article entitled "britain and europe: some fear london may have missed its big chance for ecoic salvation." written by anthony lewis in the new york times of july 28. 1966. and an editorial entitled "survival of britain." published in the new york times of july 29. 1966.
the senator is correct. it would be within that global limitation. i do  k what the conference committee would do. they might take some other figure. however. this would afford a certain amount of flexibility.
it would  be per state. the global limitation of the whole $375 million would be $50 million. in other words. the secretarys global limitation on the entire $375 million. as to what he could exceed the 12.5 percent by. with all of the states which he exceeded it. would be $50 million. do i make that clear.
suppose he had gone to the extent of twothirds with three states. then he found that he wanted to do $5 million more for each of those states. for good cause. then he would have used up $15 million of the $50 million allowability. in other words. he would have to aggregate everything that he did over and above 121/2 percent for all the states for which he did it as against the global sum which is authorized.
i believe that secretary fowler is on the right track. but his train is moving far too slowly. it has been my attitudeand i think it is shared by many herethat we should have moved forward in this area long ago. i think if we had asked for an international monetary conference 2 years ago. or more. we could have had some results by . because the matter would have been projected less into the recesses of the cabinets of the particular central bankers and financial ministers who are concerned with the group of ten. and more into the forefront of international attention. every month we have waited has only made worse the principal financial trouble facing the worldwhich is the condition of the british pound. so i can only answer the senator by saying certainly. the idea of pressing toward some new system of international monetary reserve is entirely the right track. i am thoroughly in accord with secretary fowler on it. but i must say that the time we have spentwhich has really been idinate. the matter has gone on for 3 years while idinate time does  mean anything mally. and we are all accustomed to being impatient. i am afraid in this case it has been terribly costly. so this morning. i urge very much that instead of emphasizing the negativethat is. that if france makes it too tough for us. in respect to the deficiency in the international monetary system. by continuing to call on our gold reservesour reaction should  be. as the secretary indicated. a restrictive one. towit. that we will "adopt either overly severe domestic measures or apply unduly restrictive trade. capital and assistance policies"--though all these measures would save emous amounts of money. and hurt the frenchbut that we should proceed affirmatively with all our partners in the world in an effort to deprive france of this position by which she is enabled to victimize us by engaging in this call upon our gold. i think that typifies my attitude toward fowler. i think he is on the right track. but his train is running awful slowly. i have been following this problem very closely for several years as ranking republican on the joint ecoic committee and last year and this year as a congressional observer to the international monetary funds and world banks annual meetings. so that i am fully aware of the situation confronting him.
may i continue. we have a consensus that there is a need for a new international reserve currency. we would surrender our sovereignty to the extent that we put dollars in the reserve. because we would  be the sole managers of the reserve. so we would do exactly what the senator has in mind. the difficulty is that we find it very hard to get together with these central bankers. because they are . as we are. under the gun of the devaluation of the pound. or some other impending political cataclysm. what i have urgedand this is where i speak of the thresholdis that we open the door to the political world in this matter. if we have the expertise of these central bankers. and we bring to bear the impact of the demand of the peoples of the world on the effort. we could get this buttoned up and done. we did that with the fund when we created it. that was done at bretton woods. the situation we  face is just as critical as that which resulted in the creation of the international monetary fund.
. interestingly egh. just as the senator from arkansas is with me with respect to the subject of military juntas. i am on his side of his proposition that aid should go through international agencies. the most distinguished record of international aid is that of the world bank. the interamerican bank has built up a great record under the direction of felipe herrera. we are  getting specific. it is longer a question of the world bank or the interamerican development bank making a loan which is  identified with the united states. if anyone gets anything in the way of aid. it is identified with the united states. and we get the credit for what is done. that is critically important.
. i call the attention of the senate to the appointment on friday by the aid of the international private investment advisory council. this council results from an amendment i proposed to last years foreign assistance act. the purpose of the amendment was to establish a high level advisory council within the aid to advise the agency on how to broaden the role already being played by private enterprise in our foreign aid program. the watson committee. which also resulted from an amendment i proposed. has already made a series of very useful recommendations along these lines. some of these recommendations have already been implemented. while some of them are still being worked out. as specified in my amendment the watson committee went out of existence after 1 year. the council that has just  been appointed is a permanent body. and i have every expectation that it will have a major impact on our foreign aid program. i very much hope that the council will  only confine its activities as to how aid may stimulate private investment in developing countries but will also consider how aid itself may be improved organizationally to stimulate the development of private enterprise in these countries.
 of the world bank. delivered the annual gabriel silver lecture devoted to world peace at columbia university on april 13. 1967. his remarks. i believe. contain much of interest to those of us who act on foreign aid legislation each year. mr. woods does  allow us to sit back in complacent satisfaction with our past foreign aid efforts. but rather presents a rugged selfexamination of our aid program since the marshall plan and suggests new directions based on the experience gained during this formative period. he says: what is  necessary. it seems clear. is that industrialized countries should give joint consideration at the highest level to their policies of development finance. after 20 years of experienceand this includes many frustrationsthe time has come. for a thorough examination of the objectives they are trying to achieve in their relationships with the developing world. of the importance of those objectives to their own national interests. and of the adequacy of the resources. the mechanisms and the techniques which are being employed to attain those objectives. i ask unanimous consent that mr. woods address "finance for developing countries: a time for decision" be printed in the record.
 with the authority to extend discriminatory treatment to imports from any eastern european state when he determines such a step is in the national interest. fourth. with our western european allies. we should encourage the active participation of the eastern european states in the united nations as well as in international institutions. such as oecd. .gatt. and the aid consortia of the world bank. these proposals make a great deal of sense and i urge my colleagues to give these proposals as well as the report their closest consideration. i ask unanimous consent that the report of the 31st american assembly. april 2730. 1967. including the list of the participants. be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks. i also ask unanimous consent that the sober and wellreasoned address of averell harriman on the background and justification for current u.s. policies toward eastern europe be printed in the record at this point.
. i wish to address myself to the situation which has been referred to by the majority leader. first. to emphasize the positive. i would like to join the majority leader and. urge that this is a situation in which an opportunity to appraise what is going on with a little calm and restraint will be most helpfulif we can have that opportunity. i would like to join the majority leader in commending prime minister eshkol of israel for suggesting the pullback of forces to give that opportunity. however. we do  live in a perfect world and that opportunity may  be afforded as it should be and as we hope it will be. therefore. we must think of eventualities. the stabilizing influence in this area of the world was the united nations which had a force there. the u.n. had laid the basis for israel in the first place. this has been a unique problem of international peace of which the united nations has been seized. i do  believe that u.n. secretary general u thant understands what he has done to the united nations by taking the precipitous action he has taken of withdrawing the u.n. troops who have maintained the peace for the past 10 years along the united arab republicisrael border. he has jeopardized th6 united nations because he was  alsoawar6 that the united nations had to be a key factor in maintaining peace in such a key incendiary area. suddenly by a decision made overnight. without consulting those who direct the united nations. the general assembly. and the security council andremembering that u thant is the secretary general of the united nations and  the directorhe made a command decision which irreparably changed the situation for the worse rather than for the better. i thoroughly agree that a meeting of the general assembly should be called. a meeting of the security council also should be called. when the russians begin to think about what they encountered in cuba they may come to a different view in connection with making the united nations again effective in the near east. i believe every effort should be made to reassert the united nations and restore it as a peace stabilizing factor in the world. i k that our government will do everything it can to bring about that result. but finally. it may be the united states that will be the most stabilizing "element in the situation ne n i do  believe that there is any necessity at this moment for discussing unilateral action by the united stateswhen we face that decision and it could come at any moment. we willmy views as to the obligation we have there and as to the deep involvement.
 is it necessary to argue as a: matter of law whether there is or is  a treaty commitment by the united states in the near east. one thing is clear: we have a clear obligation and responsibility and a vital national interest in the area and. in israel. we ourseles were joined in the solemn .declargtion of president truman with respect to the .recognition and establishment of the state of israel. in john foster dulles statement. it is u.s. policy that the preservation of the state of israel is a fundamental tehet of u.s. foreign policy. the tripartite declaration of -may 1950. to which we are a party. along with the united kingdom and france. regarding the security of the armistice borders between the arab states and israel. and the declarations of four u.s. presidents thereaftertruman. eisenhower. kennedy. iand johnsonreiterated this solemn obligation on the part of the ufited states with respect to the security in that area. thus. for the moment. the clear declaration of our responsibility. our interest. and our obligation is egh for anyone who can see and hear as to what our country will do about the situation there. it seems to me that  only we. but also thb united kingdom. and france. who are pkrties to thetripartite declaration. as well as every. other ri#aritime nation on earth. including the soviet union. would be deeply affected by the situation. in view of president nassers threat to close the straits of teheran. i can see any point in arguing hypothetical questions. there is need to argue the question of unilateral military actionwe will cross that bridge when we get to it. but there is need on the part of the united states to make it clear that its policy remains clear and unequivocal with respect to the securityof this area and the. preservation of the state of israel. that it feels. as wedeclared in 1957 when we sent troops into leba. that we have a critical national interest in the security of this area. i think the world will gather the clear purpose that it is inconceivable that the nationsincluding the united stateswill stand by and see israel go down to destruction after so much suffering and pain and so much creativity on its part. i think it is time: one. to assert clearly this obligation and responsibility on the part of the united states in the area and in the preservation of israel and thereby to encourage others to assert theirs similarly. second. it is time for the most active diplomacy on the part of the united states which includes very clearly (a) animating and motivating the united nations again to move into the situation. (b) multilateral action to secure international waterways. and (c) reserving the right in or outside of the u.n. to take any other actions required in the premises. i think the idea of a united nations force on the borders of jordan. syria. leba and. even if necessary. in israel on the gaza strip with respect to the sinai peninsula. as has been suggested here. is sound. then multilateral action must be called for by us in the international waters. remembering what president nasser got away with before the worldwhen israel. england. and france pulled back in connection with the suez incident in 1956though president nasser thereafter locked and even tightened control over the suez canal and the international commitments there. thereafter. this must  be repeated. i hope that we will all be united in encouraging and sui)porting our government in assuring a near east pealce. by taking the clear and effective decigions here discussed.
. i wish to propound a question to the senator from california [mr. kucheli who has just spoken on the problem in the near east. is it fair to conclude from the senators address that he feels that the united states does have a responsibility and an obligation in the near east. that he feels in the first instance we should endeavor to discharge that responsibility in every way we can through united nations responsibility and multilateral action. but he does  exclude. although he does  necessarily include. that we may have to take other action if that is the price of performing our responsibility there. should all else fail.
. the senator used the word "aggression" to describe the situation in the strait of tiran. i wish to amplify this because i have listened to. and read with great interest. the statements made in the united nations by the arab representatives. and the representatives of the soviet union. the question of who is the aggressor may turn out to be the key question in this situation. it is constantly being asserted that if israel acts to insure its survival by launching hostilities. it would be the aggressor. account whatever is taken of the closing of the strait of tiran. which could strangle israel. i wish to ask the senator the following question. which may be rhetorical: is it aggression to strangle a nation. or is it aggression only if you fire a shot.
. in this proposal i do  see that we are doing anything more than carrying out the will of the senate and showing the american taxpayers how to take some of this foreign aid off of their backs. this is the only original idea that has come along in 20 years that would show a way to do that. i am delighted that the senator from illis feels the same way.
. after 4 years of some of the most complex and politically charged negotiations. agreement has been reached on august 26 on a historic step forward in the international monetary system. agreement was reached among the 10 most advanced industrialized nations of the communist world. the plan agreed upon is a contingency plan which would come into being should existing international reserves prove insufficient to the worlds trade and ecoic growth. while the plan agreed upon is  so farreaching as some would likeincluding myselfthe principle of deliberate reserve creation by an international body has been established. and this is of overwhelming importance to the future progress of the world ecoy. there are several other reasons why this agreement is of tremendous importance. first of all the agreement signifies that an apparently irreconcilable conflict between france and the united states was successfully resolved to the mutual satisfaction of both. second. the successful conclusion of these negotiations. coming right after the successful kennedy round of trade negotiations. is dramatic proof that the industrialized nations of the communist world are determined to proceed with and strengthen their cooperation in the ecoic and monetary sphere. third. the new international monetary machinery agreed upon has been placed within the international monetary fund thereby bringing that institution closer to being an effective international central bank. .finally. approval of this standby plan should discourage further speculation in gold by those who were betting that either the dollar or the pound sterling world be devalued. this historic agreement is especially gratifying to me. as i have fought hard for the united states to take a leading role in these negotiations and have worked hard to increase public awareness of the importance of international monetary reform. i take this opportunity to congratulate secretary of the treasury henry fowler. who led the american negotiators during the most difficult phase of the negotiations. for a historic accomplishment. under the plan each member of the imf will be issued special drawing rights in relation to its fixed participation in the imf. the united states share of the ivifs present $21 billion pool of gold and hard currencies is 24.5 percent. so. if $1 billion in special drawing rights were created. the united states could draw $245 million. a debtor nation then could use this new asset to pay its debts instead of using its gold or dollar reserves. the plan agreed upon in london is a standby plan so that it will  go into effect until a shortage of international reserves appears in the judgment of the imfs board of govers with at least 85 percent of the total voting power in the fund. this means that the european ecoic community with 17 percent of the vote as well as the united states with 25 percent of the vote will have a veto over the timing and amount of the use of this new facility. initially the plan will operate for 5 years. it must be approved by next months annual meeting of the imfs board of govers and subsequently must be ratified by congress and the other legislative bodies concerned. i ask unanimous consent that news items dealing with this event be printed in the record.
. may i say to the majority leader. as to the last part of it. that i just. without in any way associating him with criticism of the administration. which i would never do. said that i thoroughly agreed with the majority leaders initiative. and had a deep feeling for support for it. in respect to trying to bring the united nations into the situation. i stated that i saw hing inconsistent between that and anything that i urged.
the resolution stated that it is the sense of the senate thatsuch a peace calls for discussions among the parties concerned. using such third party or united nations assistance as they may wish. looking toward(a) recognized boundaries and other arrangements that will give security against terror. destruction. and war. and the consequent withdrawal and disengagement of armed personnel. it stated. in other words. that withdrawal and disengagement should be consequent upon recognized boundaries and security. the resolution also called foras does the u.s. resolution pending before the security councila just and equitable solution to the refugee problem. free maritime passage through international waterways. including the suez canal and the gulf of aqaba and limits on a wasteful and destructive arms race. one resolution. indeed. went a little further than the presidents resolution before the security council and said: in a climate of peace. the united states will do its full share to(a) help wilh a solution for the refugees. (b) support regional cooperation. and (c) see that the peaceful promise of nuclear energy is applied for the critical problem of desalting water.  of the united states is entitled to k and to have more vividly called to his attention the support for the general policy of the united states that is expressed in the resolution cosponsored by almost twothirds of the senate of the united states. i ask unanimous consent that the draft of the resolution tabled by the united states in the united nations also be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks. so that senators may compare it with the resolution of the senator from missouri and myself. in which a large majority of the members of the senate concurred.
. we simply must review the role of gold in the world and stop the operations of speculators. that is what is happening. i include france and its speculators. the only way in which we can do this is by concerted action of the international monetary fund. that is why i have urged that we do this at the earliest possible moment. i ask unanimous consent that several tables showing the current availability of world reserves. the joint ecoic committees release of december 13 and related newspaper articles be printed in the record at this point.
 pro temf pore. without objection. it is so ordered. 1 mr. javits amendment is as follows: at the end of the bill insert a new section as follows: "sec. 14. (a) the secretary of the trease ury shall instruct the united states executive director of the international monetary fund to propose to the executive directors of the international monetary fund that they develop recommendations with respect " to the future role of gold as an international monetary reserve and steps to be instituted to insure that gold contributes to the proper functioning of the international monetary system. "(b) the secretary of the treasury shall report to the appropriate committees of congress within one year after the enactment of this act on the progress of the discussions * pursuant to subsection (a)."
 nassers actions of last mayhis blockade of the gulf of aqaba. ordering the unef forces out of the sinai. and positioning massive egyptian forces in the demilitarized areas on israels bordershowed that "paper promises" are  valid when challenged by arab militancy and intransigence. i visited the area only a few weeks ago. i found in israel a resolute determination that this time there must be a meaningful settlement. they intend that the peace shall be "hard" this time. but they do  look toward the imposition of "hard" terms on the arab states. in my judgment. israel does  seek a vindictive or punitive peace. it does insist that there be a peace secured by viable borders and demilitarized areas. a settlement which its arab neighbors participate in negotiating and are thereby committed to and bound by. there is a true paralleling of interest on this point between the united states and israel. we can longer afford to extend "assurances" in support of indirect and gerrybuilt "agreements." whichlike our 195657 assurances on the sinai. and transit of the straits of tiran and suezproved to be impossible to fulfill. we must reconcile ourselves to the prospect that if a "hard" peace can be attained. israel will be staying whern it is for some time. i ask unanimous consent that the united nations resolution on the middle east of ember 22 be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
there are more than 70 members of the international monetary fund. they would all be the joint guarantors. and the united states has such a large position in that fundwhich is about 22 percent. as to represent a complete veto in respect of the matter. and also hing in respect of the ecoy of the united states would be automatic or at the risk of the international monetary fund. the only thing it would do would be to take off our back this awful responsibility of being the key reserve currency of the world. therefore. we can often do what our own national interest might dictate. however. we must presently keep up this price of $35 an ounce. i do  think we can justify it at all in terms of maintaining it in the way we are doing by bleeding out gold through the london gold pool. however. we could justify it even less if we were to say we are  responsible for maintaining order in this situation which has occurred.  because anybody gave us the power. but only because we are big. influential. and powerful egh to assume it. it is high time that we begin to think about how we can climb off that perch. i think we can do it through the imf with risk to our national interest.
the senator is correct. that statement would also include our own government. the imf would then have a right to turn to us with respect to the corrective measures that would be necessary. i would rather deal with the imf than deal with the socalled ges of zurich whom we do  see or hear. however. they and the speculators raid the london gold pool and beat the devil out of it. this is an extremely difficult state of affairs in a complicated world. a situation in which what the united states does about money is important that anybody appointed us to do this. but it just happened that way.
the inadequacy is  so much in terms of the resolutionwhich i think was a sensitive balancing of the various considerations which could go into a middle east peaceas the fact that the resolution is silent on how the terms of the resolution are to be attained. that is. the ember 22 resolution does  call specifically for negotiations to achieve a result. the jarring mission was set up because of the well kn insistence of the israelis upon negotiations face to face. and the unwillingness of the arabs to consider that kind of negotiation. i think there is much virtue in having a new security council action about implementation of the ember 22 resolution.  to change its terms. the substantive terms of the resolution should be reaffirmedrespect for the territorial integrity of each state in the area. and the need for the kind of boundaries which would meet the criteria of being "secure and recognized." the termination of all claims of states of belligerency and. wrapping up in that. israeli withdrawal from territory occupied in the war. taking into account the fact that perhaps some of those territories will find a place in "secure and recognized" boundaries. the balancing of these considerations was the great art of the resolution. the difficulty is that hing .has taken place under it. aside from ambassador jarrings efforts. by seeking a new resolution. which will call specifically for negotiations. we will have an international confrontation of the present stalemate encountered by ambassador jarring. with the big powers taking part in it. hopefully to discover a way out of the present impasse. obviously. jarrings mission. desirable as it is. and good as it is. has been. so far. unproductive. i would  call it unsuccessful. it has been unproductive. the fighting flares continuously in terms of the guerrilla activity against israelwhich could extinguish her national life if it got intense egh. her retaliation against. say. jordan. has been the only way she has to fight back against this unseen. stealthy enemy who is harbored on the soil of jordan. it is believed. and i believethat is why i advocated what i didthat if we brought the parties into negotiation. i will  say to the negotiating table. but into negotiation. upon some formula which was the basis of a u.n. resolution. there will be a chance to bring an end to the terrible. almost greeklike tragedy. of guerrilla activity and reprisal which could plunge the whole middle east into war. that is why i urged a new united statessoviet union initiative. to have aher resolution which will say to the parties. " only is this our objective but we also want you to negotiate it out." i think that approach has a chance to cut the gordian k. after all. the rest of the world has a legitimate interest in seeing that there is peace in the middle east.
. i speak especially of henry cabot lodge. former senator and ambassador. because he has on so many occasions laid aside his own life and its comforts to serve the nation in difficult posts. this was especially true in vietnam. mr. lodge is one of the most highly hoed public servants in our nation. his confirmation to this critically important post means much to our country and to the world. and to peace in the world. ambassador lodge has never denied demands on his time. interests. and efforts. to again take on this great responsibility at this stage in life stamps him really as a new england patriot of the highest order.
. as one who has fought for many years for international monetary reform as a ranking republican member of the joint ecoic committee and as a member of the u.s. delegation when the imf board approved the sdr agreement in september 1967 in rio de janeiro. i am pleased -to support enactment of this bill which would provide for u.s. participation in the facility based on special drawing rights in the international monetary fund. while the sdrs may  be the perfect solution for the ills of the system it represents the first concrete step toward the establishment of a system which is based on a rational. systematic creation of international reserves. the world ecoy has suffered from the existing system long after it became obvious that existing reserves were  going to be adequate especially the gold component. i do  think it is necessary for me to summarize my position on the question of international monetary reform here. that is a matter of record. the devaluation of the pound. the gold rush and questions with regards to the confidence in the dollar abroad have clearly shown that the international monetary system had to be reformed. it is essential that the sdrs be activated at the earliest opportunity so that expanding ecoic growth may be accommodated around the world and to prevent protectionist and restrictive measures that could come from any future shortage of international reserves.
. averell harriman.  negotiating in paris. and a former gover of the state of new york. made a very distinguished statement upon the passing of our beloved colleague. senator robert f. kennedy. i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record. and ask unanimous consent also that in any printing of the consolidated statements made upon this sad event. the statement of ambassador harriman may be included.
. i believe members will want to have clear in the record the relationship of section 1204. which proposes that the education of the qualified members of the corps be carried on in institutions of higher education. and that section of the bill we brought in which deals with the foreign service institute. we do  institutionalize the foreign service corps as we do the air force. the army. or the navy. i think the senator might usefully. either  or when it is convenient. make clear the relationship. so that members are  under the impression we are establishing an institutionalized corps with its own educational facilitity.
the fact is. . but often the greatest ecoy is to spend a little money to do something very useful. because it pays the investment back so manyfold as to represent true ecoy. and also gets the job done. personally. i do  think this is well advised at all. i repeat. the sum involved is $1.25 million. the program has worked. the ratio of return has been literally emous. as i have described. and i think it would be most unfortunate. instead of playing them right through the line. like grants. loans. the development loan fund. and others. if one of these really gifted initiatives. the investment survey program. is discouraged. for then we really are making it difficult. by our own actions. to maintain the foreign aid program. because we are throwing overboard the very things which alleviate the burden. and which we should continue. senators should understand that once you cut a thing like this off. even if you wish to restore it later. there is a 1- to 3year turnaround before it gets underway. .rhe presiding officer. the senators time has expired.
as i understand it. this report contains a provision which calls upon the president to send us proposals for a complete reappraisal of the foreign aid program. including the possibility of operating a significant element of the programthe mobilization of private u.s. capital and khow for investment in developing countries through a corporate form. i was made acquainted with that agreement of the conferees at an early stage of their proceedings. and i should like the senator from alabama to confirm to me the fact that that is in the reportthe acceptance in the report. i should like the senator to advise me whether it is within the concept of the conferees that this should really be the authoritative effort for which we have struggled so long. to see if the entire foreign aid program can be reoriented so as the amendment declares to make this program once again an effective instrument of u.s. foreign policy.
 in the state department who will be dealing with the report called for by the foreign aid authorization bill the necessity for getting  only the best thinking on this subject but. if possible. being able to propose some coordinated plan which will tie in the international bank. the international monetary fund. the international finance corp.. and the international development association. such regional institutions as the interamerican development bank and the asian development bank and any other development agencies that exist in the world. even though they may  be in our country. such as the german development corp. and the commonwealth development co. in that way we may have before us  only our own thinking. but a global understanding of what is being done in the foreign aid field by the public and private sectors and what could be done and what should be done so that we can proceed. as we must.  only in the realm of what we can afford or what we want to do or what we think possible for us to do. but also with an understanding of the world need. it can then be determined how the world is going about filling that need and how we may fill this continuing and growing gap between developed and developing nations. i hope our planners will pay strict attention to my amendment and give it serious consideration. exiisrr 1
. as to the bill before the senate. and the opposition to it in the form of a pro forma amendment by the senator from missouri. the senator from missouri appears to base his opposition on the balanceofpayments problem. with all deference. i have dealt with that subject on the floor of the senate as often as has any other senator. the problem. without any question. is a real one. but this is  the way to approach it. because we would be sacrificing far more than we gained if we sought to deal with the balanceofpayments problem in this context. the senator from oregon has made the argument that we should wait. anybody who is opposed to a measure wants us to wait. waiting is always as good as winning. the difficulty with waiting is that the world will  wait. the bill before us. to provide for increased participation by the united states in the international development associationwhich we owe to the senator from oklahoma . who is in the chamberappears to deal with problems which will  wait. the administration was told that we should wait on an appointment of an ambassador to panama. some of the people who thought we could wait are  saying that one of the big things we missed on was the fact that if we had had someone on the ground. we would have been better apprised of the situation. and perhaps have been able to take measures to meet it. so. as the saying goes. the suggestion is " as hot as its cooked." it involves a prejudice in position. and could easily involve prejudice in position in the matter before us. if we are really going to do something. about the balanceofpayments problem. let us understand that we have troops overseas that cost us $3 billion a year. that tourists from this country spend money overseas. for fine purposes. but still purposes which are  absolutely essential to the security of the united states. and which adds something in the neighborhood of $1.4 billion annually to the deficit in our balance of international payments. with our eyes wide open. we passed the foreign aid bill recently. which also has an impact on our balance of international payments. although most of the money appropriated is spent in this country. we did it because we are interested in the security of our nation and our success in the world. by those standards. we can have balanceofpayment gains when we jeopardize the security of this country. ida has become a fixed and inseparable part of the work of international developmental organizations. which represent as much a part of the u.s. peacekeeping effort as our own foreign aid program. one of the big fallacies which has been pointed up in this debate is that ida is some kind of maudlin. mawkish pieinthesky venture. which has cost us money. ida is an integral part of one of the most hardheaded international banks in existence. the international bank for reconstruction and development. the ibrd. in view of its vaunted reputation. i would rather see the ibrd used to run ida than to have the program put under the united nations or under other auspices. for the very reason that we want them to be hardheaded about it. one of the points made this aftern is that loans which are made by the international development association are soft loans. they are "soft" only in the sense that recipients of such loans have reasonable terms under which to repay them. they are  soft loans in terms of what they accomplish. in fact. they are just the opposite. they are for the development of transportation and communications systems. agriculture. irrigation. water supply systems. power. and ports which are absolutely essential to the survival and the continued progress of the countries whom we need most to help. if we are to save the world from the communist avalanche. so we are actually dealing with loans extended on the basis of strict criteria. and on special terms to creditworthy countries which are borrowing the money. the second point is that this is one of the few examples of our having partners in foreign aid. here we are being advised to kick that advantage away. after all. the whole impetus of american foreign aid in recent times has been to bring other countries into the program of assisting the developing countries of the free world. the fundamental idea behind ida is that it does bring other developed countries besides the united states into the program. i refer senators to the table shown on page 4 of the report of the committee on foreign relations. headed "proposed participation in increase of ida resources." as an indication of what is being accomplished along these lines. it will be seen that france. germany. japan. the united kingdom. and canada. the very countries whom we want most to bring into the ecoic aid program. are making substantial contributions to the overall fund. our contribution will remain in the area of 40 percent of idas total resources. the overall contribution of the other member countries will be in the area of 60 percent. let us remember that the united states represents over 60 percent of the productive strength of the free world. our $600 billion gross national product is approximately 50 percent of the total gross national products of all the countries of the earth. therefore. first. we are  making soft loans. and we are  giving away the money. we are making them only for "hard" purposes. and we are making them in order to improve the debtservice position of the countries which are borrowing the money abroad. second. we are getting partners. we are getting extremely important partners through ida. third. the balanceofpayment concept can only be an excuse for opposing the bill. because if we are going to do massive things in dealing with this problem. there are a great many other things that we can do about it before we do something that can result only in frustrating our policy. the argument has also been made that these countries relend the money to banks or political subdivisions within their boundaries on harder terms than on which they obtain it from ida. what do we want them to do. do we want them to give the money away. they are able to relend the money as a revolving fund for their own development. when they collect interest. they are taxing their own people to pay the interest. and they increase the revolving funds. this. in my view. is entirely proper. there is hing wrong with it. we would do it exactly in the same way. there has been a great deal of talk about revising our foreign aid program. i have little doubt that we will revise it. however. one of the lines of revision. which will be the principal line. i believe. will be to channel as much as we can of our aid program through hardheaded international organizations in which we are likely to get partners to share the burden. and which will result in the least amount of diplomatic pressure being put on us from the point of view of ecoic assistance. ida is one of the best structures for that purpose. if we ourselves are a party to  allowing this structure to develop and grow further. as our partners in this effort wish it to develop and grow. then we are closing off one of the most constructive channels for carrying on foreign aid in a most intelligent way. in a sense the same thing is involved here as is involved in connection with the interamerican bank and the international bank for reconstruction and development.
 under the united nations charter. we have two strings to our bow which insulate us against a compulsion to further action. one. we can veto. we have never done that. perhaps we never will. but we can do it. two. even if we do  veto. we have the option whether or  to use our armed forces even if the security council passes a resolution for military sanctions. so the united states has undertaken commitment. as we see it. in the security council resolutionwhich. of course. is a separate matter from this treaty. the u.s. declaration in this regard says even less than the security council resolution. our own interpretation says we affirm our intention. as a permanent member of the united nations security council. to seek immediate security council action to provide assistance. and so on. seeking is a very far cry from doing or committing or obligating. indeed. our report makes very clear that all we have undertaken to do is to put this matter before the security council. we can veto such action. or. even if it is taken. we can refrain from participating in it. these are our absolute rights under the united nations charter. the senate. it seems to me. has shown itself overwhelmingly in favor of ratifying this treaty. everybody agrees we are going to ratify it. if we are going to ratify it. what are we going to do. hang a stone around its neck so one else will ratify it. and it will never come into effect. if so. we had better reject it. if we are to ratify it. we had better make it as reasonably attractive as possible without incurring obligations where e  exist. i should like to say one further word as to the activities of the senator from th carolina in this matter. i do  think that by and i have read this record pretty carefullythere can be any question that there is riveted into the whole legislative position of the united states the very basic proposition that we reserve the most complete freedom of action. except for the fact that we will immediately consider what our own reaction will be. and we will immediately seek security council action. hing else. it seems to me that is the very minimum that could be asked. that is all which. even in ho. we commit ourselves to. and therefore. to adopt this understanding. having turned down one practically like it by a vote of 2 to 1. would only be aher way of saying that we are going to ratify the treaty. but we are going to discourage the other 40 nations from entering into it. i do  think we wish to do that. and. therefore. speaking for the committee with senator fulbrights permission. i hope the senate will reject this understanding.
. our distinguished former ambassador to the organization of american states. the hoable sol liitz. has written a sensitive. disturbing. and highly perceptive article for the saturday review on the state of our relations with latin america. i commend the article to all senators who are interested in the state of our relations with this crucial area of the world whose population is  more than that of the united states. i invite the particular attention of congress to two sections of the article. ambassador liitz writes: obviously. it is far from the intent of the congress to do anything that would slow the rhythm of development in latin america. for that could only weaken the constructive forces of peaceful change and give impetus to those who believe in violence as the way to alter the status quo. but cutting our share of the alliance appropriation has this precise effect. whether that is the intent or . and the united states can evade responsibility. later in the article. ambassador liitz observes that the alliance.for progress "is  a bilateral aid program. but rather a cooperative selfhelp program. to be carried out primarily by the people of latin america. the united states is one partner in the program. of which 90 percent is financed by the countries of latin america." ambassador liitz then goes on to describe our alliance appropriation "as a hand of help extended in friendship." in acting on this years aid request. i would urge congress to continue the financing of this hand of help extended in friendshipit is important to latin america and to the united states. i ask unanimous consent that the article be printed in the record.
. the committee on foreign relations will begin the markup of the foreign aid bill of 1969 in the near future. the senate will then vote on this legislation. it is. therefore. important to e that the prestigious committee for ecoic development in its september 1969 national policy statement entitled "assisting development in lowincome countries: priorities for u.s. government policy" has strongly endorsed the establishment of "a new government corporation to take over the private investment guarantee and promotion activities. and limited lending authority.  lodged in aids office of private resources." this is the major inative object of the new foreign aid bill. i ask unanimous consent that this recommendation of the council be printed in the record.
. "gringos and generals." written by roberto de oliveira campos. and published in the augustseptember issue of interplay. should be required reading for every member of congress as we approach the annual foreign aid debate. dr. campos. a brilliant and distinguished ecoist. served as brazils ambassador to the united states from 1961 to 1964 and more recently as the minister of ecoic planning and coordination of the government of brazil. dr. campos was one of the principal members of the pearson commission whose recommendations on worldwide development assistance have been made publicin time to assist the planning of the united natiofis family for the second development decade of the 1970s and to assist individual do and recipient nations in their ecoic planning efforts for this decade. in his perceptive article. dr. campos catalogs the difficulties prevailing in latin american countries which hinder ecoic development. and presents a brilliant analysis of the present and changing role of the military takeover in latin america. in discussing the trade and aid controversy. dr. campos comes to the disturbing conclusion that latin america is faced with the bleak prospect of "less aid and less trade." in describing the alliance and its successes and failures. dr. campos es thatsome of its basic ideas have percolated through the body politic and are  part of the contemporary political and ecoic wisdom. finally. dr. campos introduction states: finally even though. in this age of jets and missiles. geographic proximity has lost much of its strategic relevance. and. even though lacking nuclear power. the developing countries of the western hemisphere are a source more of discomfort than of danger. the fact remains that latin america has a special relevance in the context of the west. among the underdeveloped continents. it is the one with the best prospects for selfsupporting growth and for moving ahead into the industrial age. this quotation puts into excellent context the reasons why i strongly feel that congress should continue the funding of our latin american programs at least at the levels the administration has requested. i ask unanimous consent that the article be printed in the record.
. in the near future the full house and the senate foreign relations committee will take up the foreign assistance act of 1969. the other body has already materially reduced the administrations appropriations request. in considering the administrations appropriations requeststhe lowest in recent historyi ask members of congress to ponder the wise article on develop-. mental assistance which appeared in the ember 1 issue of the london ecoist. the great foreign aid fraud which the ecoist refers to is the widespread popular belief that "after years of generous aid giving. the poorer countries are as poor as ever. mainly because they are inept. prolific and ungrateful." as the ecoist points out. the recently released pearson commission report on which the united states was represented by a most distinguished american. douglas dillon. former secretary of the treasury and ambassador to france. clearly indicates that this belief is "grotesquely false." the ecoist article also puts the developmental assistance activities of the communist world in proper perspective. as the ecoist points out the transfer of developmental assistance funds by the communist states to the developing world only runs at $350 millions a year"wonder russia has excused itself from joining in the preparations for a second un development decade." the ecoist article also puts in perspective the recommendations of the pearson commission when it es that the commissions recommendations ask only that onesixtieth of the increase in the gross national product of the developed world be earmarked for aid. the ecoist asks. "is this absurdly visionary." it is a question well worth pondering  only for the future but as we consider this years foreign assistance appropriations request. i ask unanimous consent that the article be printed in the record.
i think my colleagues k my feeling about that. and i shall do my utmost to cooperate. but i do need to canvass the cosponsors to find out who needs time. . we will discuss this matter in depth tomorrow. but i do urge senators to look at the record and consider this proposal. one further point: i have submitted the amendment in precisely the form in which it passed the other body. without any changes whatever. so that there need be argument on the question of whether or  there is any difference between the concept as presented here and as it emerged from the committee and went to the floor and was passed by the house of representatives. precisely based upon the rather extensive hearings which they held. that is why i have submitted their version exactly as it is in the house bill. i might also add that new appropriations for this matter are required. other than capital for investment guarantee. experience and history have shown that this is strictly capital. and that the operation makes money rather than losing it. there is a capital fund of $40 million provided. which is only a reuse of money which is repaid from indebtedness contracted in development loans under the foreign aid bill. and reuse of those repayments should be all of the capitalizing required.
i did  say either. all i said was that the guarantee program of the foreign aid setup has  come under controversy abroad. so far as i k. i am willing to be corrected. i am going to deal with the american investment. the servantschreiber concept. and so forth. but the guarantee program as an element of the foreign aid program has been singularly free of controversy.
. in his superb article entitled "hard choices for the embattled dollar" published in the saturday review of ember 22. the distinguished lawyerecoist. richard n. gardner. warns us against complacency in our international monetary affairs. professor gardner points to the difficulty the united states continues to face in reducing our chronic balanceofpayments deficit and warns that "huge deficits of the current magnitude can be sustained much longer." he rightfully points to the necessity of new policies the "harmonize reserve policies so that central banks hold dollars. gold and sdr in agreed proportions" to prevent a variant of greshams law from operating through which bad money will drive out the good. the leading ecoist ed bernstein has also been in the forefront of advocating the necessity of combining the various reserve components into a consolidated reserve unit. these suggestions of messrs. gardner and bernstein are worthy of serious consideration. prefessor gardner also makes a strong case for linking the the sdr creation with developmental assistance as well as the need for the international community to take a new look at easing the exchange rate adjustment problem "through greater flexibility in exchange rates." i commend professor gardners article to senators and suggest that it constitutes an agenda for international monetary problems for the 1970s. i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record.
 in the warmaking activities which are  based on a declaration of war. but to deprive ourselves of authority and power in the world necessary to our own security and defense which inheres in arms supply. standing alone. seems to me to give us more. rather than less. exposure to the danger of war. it has never been our policy. and i do  think it should be our policy. i think we should be very aware of the fact that we should  allow arms to be the first step tantamount to a state of war. but we should use management. intelligence. prudence. and foresight. it should  cause us to be children and simply cut off the effectiveness of our policy which can inhere in furnishing arms. where it is desirable and appropriate to co so. rather than furnishing american troops. an umbrella. and a commitment. i think we are adult egh to deal with the emoluments of power in the legislative as well as the executive. my objection to the proposal of the senator from delaware with which. like the senator from idaho . i have great sympathy. is the timing. we k very well some of the things we have been called upon to do under this measure. under credit sales. are urgent. absolutely requisite. right . the senator from delaware is right about the fact that we should have a line item and we should be permitted to decide whether we should or should  allow credit sales to israel. or the republic of china. or iran. or any other country. but sometimes we are in a situation where. because of the elapsing of time and the confluence of historic events. we can have that privilege at that particular minute. so our problem. if we put it to the senate only as a major debate problem. is that. if we act as the senator from delaware wishes us to do. it will seriously inhibit american policy in the attempt to exercise ways and policies at a particular moment. therefore. i hope we go along with this particular provision. which is  so overwhelming in terms of money as to commit ourselves unduly. and then. as the senator from idaho has suggested. resolve the matter in a very fundamental way when the foreign aid bill comes before us.
i think. as to logistics. we definitely have that under the foreign aid programs. he must come to us in the absence of law or security for our troops. and. in the absence of law or security for our troops he has inherent constitutional power. in my judgment. to engage the armed forces of the united states. including its air force. in a supporting role.
there is a millionman army. and they are beginning to develop an air force. they are showing considerable signs of self dependence in cambodia. where some of their forces are . and certainly in vietnam. it seems to me that every nation which goes in to do what we wanted to do. which was to help a small people achieve the right to determine its own future. must have some terminal point for its efforts. really. on moral grounds. we had the same reason for going into czechoslovakia under the united nations charter. or hungary. obviously. those would have been insane commitments. we took this one. which in my judgment was very improvident. but.  himself has  decided that issue. he himself says he is going to withdraw. so all we are talking about is what shall be the timetable. and shall it be in his mind or shall it be written into the law. in my judgment. that is the central issue. there is other issue involved. he himself says he is getting out as soon as he possibly can. the central issue is. shall we set a date. on that issue. i believe the weight of the evidence is  on the side of the proponents of the amendment. and that is why i have joined in supporting it.
. in the very near future the senate will have before it the foreign aid appropriations bill. provisions of this bill relate to the u.s. contribution to the u.n. development program. at the same time that the senate considers this bill. the united nations in new york will begin the final negotiations which will result in the strategy document for the second development decade. this strategy document will be one of the most important policy papers to come out of the unitec nations in the past 10 years. to better acquaint my colleagues with the workings of the u.n. development program and the progress the united nations has made over the past 10 years in the field of ecoic development programs. i ask unanimous consent that an excellent and balanced article that appeared in the orbis quarterly be printed in the record.
. i wish to call to the attention of the senate today a situation which has developed in the united nations where i have the ho to be the delegate this year to the general assembly. the matter to which i address myself requires congressional attention. in view of the past record of congress on this subject. in my capacity as u.s. delegate to the general assembly of the united nations i have had a particular opportunity to give attention to the question of representation of chinaone of the most complex and sensitive issues before the world today. during my absence in europe on nato business. the u.s. position was stated by ambassador phillips on ember 12 in a speech to the general assembly. the u.s. position this year on the admission of the peoples republic of china is in my judgement a new position. for the first time in 20 years. the united states has moved away from a position of outright opposition to pekings admission. the nixon administration is to be commended for this major initiative which is in accordance with the nixon doctrine governing u.s. policy in asia. the support of the congress on so vital a matter of u.s. policy is of the greatest importance. the speech of ambassador phillips showed that the main thrust of the u.s. position is that the united states opposes the expulsion of the republic of china on taiwan as the precondition for the admission of the peoples republic of china into the u.n. the corollary of this proposition is to open the door for a change in the u.s. position. the main thrust of which has been heretofore to oppose the admission of the peoples republic of china to the u.n. per se. i agree with this new position adopted by the nixon administration and consider that following the vote in the u.n. a similar reopening of the question in the congress is essential. the record of congress on this subject would indicate support for a continued u.s. position of opposition to the admission of the peoples republic of china into the u.n.. regardless of terms. for example. the last rollcall vote we had in the senate on this question was on july 23. 1956. when house concurrent resolution 265 was passed by a vote of 86 to 0. it has long been the practice to include "sense of congress" expressions. opposing the admission of the chinese peoples republic. in foreign assistance legislation. as well as in state department appropriations acts. for example. the foreign assistance and related programs appropriations act. 1970. approved on february 9. 1970. retains this provision in its section 105. which is an oldstyle congressional expression of view on the chinese representation issue. the department of state. justice. and commerce. the judiciary and related agencies appropriations act. 1971. approved on october 21. 1970. just before the election recess. states: sec. 105. it is the sense of the congress that the communist chinese government should  be admitted to membership in the united nations as the representative of china. in view of this legislative history. i feel it is essential that the congress express its support for the posture adopted on this question by the nixon administration. as embodied in a statement of ember 12 given by ambassador phillips. i ask unanimous consent that the text of this speech be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
. once the vote is taken in the u.n.. i shall submit to the senate an appropriate resolution. which i hope will begin the debate for taking a new position on the part of congress in respect of the admission of communist china to the u.n. i expect the vote this year will show a mixed result. it seems likely that the albanian resolution. calling for pekings admission and for taipeis expulsion might possibly even gain a majority for the first time this year. also. and very importantly. the "important question" resolution cosponsored by the united states is likely to receive a strong majority again this year. if this is. indeed. the result. the general assembly will in effect have upheld the position of the nixon administrationthat is. also favoring the continued membership on some .acceptance terms of the republic of chinas government on taiwan. the task for next year will be to devise a new resolution which will effect the will of the majoritythat is representation for both peking and taipei. i hope the united states will take the leadership in devising a new resolution to this end for presentation next year. i hope also that a climate will have been created in the congress to facilitate such a decision. it is unreasonable for peking to insist on taipeis expulsion as a condition for its acceptance of membership. it is equally unreasonable for taipei to insist on pekings continuing exclusion as the condition for its continuing participation. i hope the united states will do its best to get both the governments of peking and taipei to drop their rigid preconditions for participation in the united nations. this could be done without settling the question of whether there is one china. two chinas. or one china and one taiwan. because of the u.s. relationship with the nationalist government in taipei. i feel that the united states bears a special diplomatic responsibility to convince the government of the republic of china to recede from its rigid attitude of ref using to participate in the united nations if the chinese peoples republic should be voted in. in recognition of the first 20 years of the united nations. and of the great changes in the world scene which have taken place since the united nations was founded. the united states should take a lead in proposing the principle of universality with respect to membership in the united nations for all those willing in good faith to undertake the obligations of the u.n. charter. under this sensible and equitable formula. both peking and taipei would be welcome to participate. both are functioning governments in control of significant populations and territory. while it is possible that both or either of the governments of peking and taipei may stick to their rigid posture of preconditioning the others exclusion as the price of its membership. i believe that the best and most efficacious position for the united states and for the united nations is one which embraces the principle of universality as to all willing in good faith to undertake the obligations of the charter. this would then make it clear that the exclusion of either peking or taipei was a decision of that government and  a decision of the united states or the united nations. there is an essential task to be performed in congress in support of the nixon administrations initiative to meet the challenge of the chinese representation issue. members of the senate will recall the history of congressional expressions of opposition to pekings entry into the united nations. these expressions. beginning with senate resolution 36 passed on january 23. 1951. were the product of the deep feeling engendered by the korean war period. while appropriate to their time. i believe that the day has come for the senate to reexamine its position. the congress needs to buttress the administration in seeking a new. more realistic andin terms of world opinionmore widely acceptable resolution of this complex issue which is so gravely important to the peace of the world and the future of the united nations. in my judgment. this could best be done in a way which will make it possible for taipei to remain in. while also making it possible for peking to come in. both governments have a significant contribution to make.
i believe that to be the ktiest question. there are several possible formulas to handle that question. i do  wish to express a personal judgment on the matter at this time. rather. i want to focus attention on the first part of the problemthat of opening up united nations membership to both governments. the security council seat is a problem which the united nations and other nations will have to wrestle with. once the first hurdle has been crossed. the administration maintains there really has been change in its policy. but it seems to me it is a change and it is a major change which opens the way. at long last. to the united states receding from a position which has really been unaltered for over 20 yearsthat of simply and flatly opposing the admission of communist china. we may be able to help. in the congress. with a formula. so that the u.s. position might be founded on the ways and means rather than on a doctrinaire attitude of flat opposition. it seems to me that has been foreshadowed in the administration. the question is "will we followup in the congress". i hope we will. i am hoping to bring the issue to a debate by bringing the question before the congress in the form of a resolution.
the senate will  vote on it in any event. the only thing that the committee presents us to vote on is the amounts for the large items. headstart and manpower training. the committee bill does  call for a vote on the other items. when the house passed on this matter it did exactly what this amendment tries to do. it had a global sum for this item and appropriated it to the oeo. we are certainly  out of the ball park in trying to do the same thing here.
again in round figuresonly something in the area of 20 percent plus represents a pledge of u.s. gold. to which the united states still has a claim as the u.s. gold contribution becomes part of the gold pool of the international monetary fund. so we retain. as it were. our equitable interest to the same extent as our contribution in that gold pool. is that correct.
. i am so pleased that the distinguished senator from kansas has made this an issue in our debate today. the scale of the tragedy is almost beyond the imagination. speaking personally. my wife and i had an extended visit with the pakestani ambassador to the united nations. because of my wifes interest and my own. i have looked into this matter very carefully. our country has done a great deal more than many other governments. many other governments are paying attention to this tragedy. they certainly should. from instincts of humanitarianism and religion if for other reasons. there is a fine voluntary organization getting started under the auspices of robert murphy. our former under secretary of state. citizens can certainly join. i should like to join the senator from kansas. one. in urging the rest of the world to do its share. two. in emphasizing the fact that from what i have seen. the united states will do everything that can reasonably be done. governmentally and privately. to give succor to these terribly unfortunate people in east pakistan. and three. the big problem is apparently administration. the governmental machinery in west pakistan is 1.000 miles from the scene of the disaster in east pakistan. and there are political rivalries involved. i would join the senator from kansas in the hope that perhaps international agencies like the united nations and its various organizations. seato. and other organizations. including the united states if it is operating under those auspices. will make available personnel. medical teams. and similar skills which would mally be within the competence of the local governments in other situations. but required here on an unprecedented scale. we should also encourage other governments to do that.
. i associate myself with the fine remarks the senator from rhode island has made about ambassador yost. with whom we have both served at the united nations. ambassador yost has had a long and distinguished career in the service of our country. and has performed with distinction all the tasks he has been given over the years. we were indeed fortunate to have had the services of a fine professional such as mr. yost in the delicate position of ambassador to the united nations. i wish him the best of luck in whatever future endeavors he may undertake. whether in the service of our government or in private enterprise.
. i think it is also important that we keep our own house in order. much criticism has been- made. for example. of how prisoners of war. th vietnamese prisoners of war. fare in south vietnam. our country has acted most commendably in respect of doing its utmost to see that under our general aegis. there was  any situation of inhumane treatment or violation of the geneva convention. i urge very much that our country continue those efforts. as it is the best way in which to demonstrate the good faith of our seriousness and indignation over the kind of treatment which we k has bees meted out to our prisonersof war. finally i wish to say that what the civilized world must condemn in the most unmitigated terms is the silence and doubt in which hundreds upon hundreds of families have been left by the refusal of the th vietnamese to disclose lists of the prisoners as well as their condition. there are somany wives and children who do  k whether their fathers. and husbands are alive or dead. this is the most inhuman aspect of all which has characterized the conduct of the th vietnamese. and i hope that ambassador bruce. our ambassador to the paris talks. will continue in the most vigorous way. and unceasingly. to demand disclosure. which is the most elementary aspect of the geneva convention. to which ha is a party.
. there is hing revolutionary in what i have proposed. the moment of truthand i say this from my experience at the united nations as well as in foreign affairswith respect to communist china is approaching. and i say we are  ready for it. if we deliberately reconsider our position. it may result in our confirming it. but at least we will have done it deliberately. we will k why. all our people will be advised. and we will be pursuing a common policy. i do  think this would be the result. but it is a possibility. as the situation stands . i believe the matter urgently requires the consideration of the senate. which is uniquely charged with an interest in the foreign relations of the country.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the text of the statement of ambassador greenwald. u.s. representative to oecd. and an article from the financial times of january 15. 1971. both concerning this outstanding development.
. the u.s. representative to the united nations commission on human rights. ambassador rita e. hauser. spoke before the triennial international convention of bnai brith women in washington. -d.c. on february 14. mrs. hausers is a significant statement on human rights. as a delegate to the 25th session of the united nations general assembly. i worked with mrs. hauser in the u.s. delegation. as i have on other occasions. it is of the principles for which she workshuman freedom and equal rightsthat she so spoke in her address as the first woman keyer of the international convention of bnai brith women. i ask unanimous consent that mrs. hausers remarks be printed in the record.
the senator from new york has right to and does  say anything about being acceptable to him. that is quite immaterial. the senator from new york does  say it is unacceptable to israel. he does  k. the only thing the senator from new york says is that the u.n. resolution. to which the senator refers. says such thing. that resolution.  242. was completely evenly balanced as between the parts. one part of it leaned on the other. the part relating to withdrawal leaned on secured and recognized boundaries. the part bearing on secured and recognized boundaries leaned on withdrawal. neither could stand alone. i think the great difficulty we are having with these negotiations is inherent in the fact that on one side the soviet union and the arab states would have us believe that withdrawal was an absolute commitment with reference to secured and recognized boundaries. and they may do this because they can guarantee delivery of secured and recognized boundaries if there is withdrawal. they say in the uar message to ambassador jarring that the most that they can offer is that they will use their "best efforts." on the other hand. israel says that if they can guarantee secured and recognized boundaries. she can withdraw until that question is settled. too. if settlemen has many parts that lean on each other. settlement is impossible to achieve results if each side demands prior fulfillment of those clauses most to its liking. while reserving its position on the clauses it does  like so much.
i thank my chairman. if it were  for my emous respect for him. i would have interrupted him on a number of occasions. for this reason: the central theme of my own speech today is negotiation. the central theme of my speech is that we should  write a ticket for negotiation either in favor of israel or in favor of egypt. and yet the thrust. the feeling. the climate created by the airing of the secretarys ideas. unhappily. unfortunately. perhaps even unintentionally and unwittingly. did set such a climate. that it was a sine qua  that israel had to get out. then we could go on to negotiate. she can do that. any more than the arab states can accept her possession and control of all these territories before they begin to negotiate. of course. the parties should insist. but effort should be made in advance of that negotiation to lay down ground rules which mean preacceptance one or the others interpretation of the united nations resolution of 1967. that is what i am saying. but i am saying more than that. i am saying we must proceed with an eye single to the interest of u.s. security and to the peace of the world. and whether israel does or cloes  make out under this situation is something israel will have to watch. in answer to senator aiens question. i made it clear that before we could think of using the armed forces of the united states. it was only jeopardy to the interest of the united states. the national interest and the national security of the united states. which was the question. and the only question. involved. finally. i also made it clearand the senator is at liberty to read what i have saidthat i applaud the secretary of state for his initiative in bringing about the standstill and the ceasefire. in bringing about a condition in which. at long last. egypt has agreed that it will make a juridical document outof the peace settlement. i think that is all to the good. i am trying to avoid its being marred  by ideas aired abroad. either by the sec. retary or by the israeli prime minister. which endeavor to write a ticket in advance of the negotiations. incidentally. the senator was very much invited to our meeting the other day. i was very much disappointed that he did  attend. and i think it would have been most fruitful and useful if he had been able to do so. i k he had other reasons for  being present.
. i have listened with the greatest care to the senator from arkansas and find his statement to be very one sided. the senator said  a single word about the other central provision of the agreement. of the united nations resolution. which deals with secure and recognized borders. this was written and phrased and developed exactly to be a counterpart and counterbalance to the withdrawal clause. the egyptian game backed by russia is to get israel to withdraw "and then we will negotiate." the instability and anarchy in that area of the world. and the history of 195767. make this an unreasonable requirement. i believe* that the united states can properly take the position that. sure. they will get out. they will substantially get out of almost all of it. we understand that. but the question of secure and recognized borders. which can otherwise be secured. is also important. so. accept both. the senator accepts the principle that the israelis have to have secure and recognized borders. at least halfthey accept the other principle that. in essence. there has to be withdrawal from what was occupied in the 1967 war. both parties accept both principles. and then go ahead and negotiate. as the senator puts iti do  think he does it wittinglyhe says to the israelis. "get out. and then you will negotiate." why should they be the only one to accept the one principle instead of both. when the other side will  accept both. i think that is most unfair. and on the part of the united states it would represent loading the negotiations in advance on a proarab basis. and therefore a prosoviet basis. we have right to do that to the israelis when they feel their survival is at stake. there we are dealing with a nation of two and a half million people which is living literally by miracles. and they are facing a hundred million arab people. and an emous country. the arab survival is  at stake. this is  a matter of equal weighting on both sides. we have to be human egh to realize that. the senator has made the point crystal clear. the effort is to interpret this united nations resolution one way. and thit is  fair. that is all i am saying. if there is going to be a negotiation. let us lay off the interpretation. leave the interpretation to the parties. to fight it out. finally. may i say this: the senator says. "you will never get the russians to agree." i say to the senator. "do you think you will ever get the israelis to agree." it is their throat that is at stake. the russian nation will go on very nicely. matter what happens in the mideast. and we will do extremely well. but  the israelis. let us  talk about who is going to make whom do what.
there is a millionman army. and they are beginning to develop an air force. they are showing considerable signs of self dependence in cambodia. where some of their forces are . and certainly in vietnam. it seems to me that every nation which goes in to do what we wanted to do. which was to help a small people achieve the right to determine its own future. must have some terminal point for its efforts. really. on moral grounds. we had the same reason for going into czechoslovakia under the united nations charter. or hungary. obviously. those would have been insane commitments. we took this one. which in my judgment was very improvident. but.  himself has  decided that issue. he himself says he is going to withdraw. so all we are talking about is what shall be the timetable. and shall it be in his mind or shall it be written into the laws. in my judgment. that is the central issue. there is other issue involved. he himself says he is getting out as soon as he possibly can. the central issue is. shall we set a date. on that issue. i believe the weight of the evidence is  on the side of the proponents of the amendment. and that is why i have joined in supporting it. mr. mcgovern. as far as simply saying we have won and getting out is concerned. it is my view that we have applied that doctrine in cambodia. and i hope we can sustain it there.
i think the senator could be very helpful on that if he told us what was the disquiet of the committee on that score. because it may very well be that some negotiation would be required by the president inside the united nations in order to bring before the committee a reflection of view on that score which would be of assistance to the committee.
. senators chieu. vu van mau. tran van don. professors bong and huy of the captien party. and highranking vietnamese civil servants. i also saw our own people. ambassador bunker. deputy ambassador berger. general abrams. ambassador colby. director of cords. aid director mossier. juspao director nickel. ecoic counsellor cooper. iii corps adviser funkhouser. embassy political officer calvin mehert and others. subsequently. in paris. i had a meeting with ambassador habib of our vietnam negotiating mission. the major findings of my trip to vietnam are summarized under the following.
 of the kedanren.  of sony corp.. numerous highranking civil servants and members of the japanese and american press corps. on the united states side. i had discussions with ambassador meyer. minister sneider. and assistant secretary of state for ecoic affairs trezize. who was visiting tokyo. i also met with the board of directors of picaprivate investment co. for asialeaders of the major corporations of the developed world who have formed pica to provide a private enterprise catalyst for ecoic development in asia. the major subjects covered in my conversations are summarized as follows:
. that when we have a chance at least to show our moral indignation which is so completely tied up with voluntarism on our part as the sugar quota. it is a great mistake  to show it. i thoroughly agree with my colleagues who have said this is a symbolic vote. most of the worlds population is yellow. brown. or black. and the overwhelming majority of the votes in the united nations are from nations with people who are mainly yellow. brown. or black. we wish to have a unified world as well as a moral world. i can see few cases more clear than this in which we can make an expression of morality on a matter which is entirely within our dispensation as a people. i really think. considering the affront to the morality of mankind which is represented by apartheid in south africa. this is the very minimum we ought to do in this situation. and i hope the senate will sustain the amendment of the senator from massachusetts.
. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed in the record the text of my statement on development assistance and the united nations second development decade. delivered in my capacity as a u.s. representative to the interparliamentary union and as a representative of the u.s. parliamentary group to the ecoic and social committee. at the plenary session. september 6. 1971 at the palais bourbon. paris.
 can remove it. and could. over time. engender retaliatory trade wars all over the world. which could plunge the world into a depression. in view of the fact that there is stopping that kind of declaration. in terms of ecoic activities. once it starts. so i welcome this statement by the secretary of the treasury. and ask unanimous consent that the speech which he made on yesterday. before the delegates and govers of the world bank and international monetary fund on the part of the united states. be made a part of my remarks.
. all too often along the course of history governments have solved the most pressing problems affecting humanity in a crisis atmosphere. and by ad hoc measures. perhaps this is an inevitable fact of human existence. but it seems painfully ironic that such should be the case when at the same time there exist men of ununusual vision ready to propose farreaching and permanent solutions to the problems which confront us. one such set of problems at the present time is. of course. the turmoil in the international monetary system. which has so far defied attempts by the major powers of the world to find satisfactory and stable solutions. in this context. it is refreshing indeed to find serious attempts being made at a basic reform in the international monetary system. perhaps the most interesting proposal for reform is an article written by lawrence b. krause. a senior ecoist at the brookings institution. and published recently in the washington post. while the article incorporates many aspects of proposals currently being made by heads of government. it goes further to describe how a basic re* form of the international monetary system could be used as a means both ol solving the problem of the glut of dollars in the world and of correcting the gros imbalances in per capita income whicl occur between the developed and the developing countries of the world. i draw attention especially to dr krauses proposal that the profits from gradually selling official gold in the private market could be utilized for sofp loans to less developed countries undei the world banks international development association. a more detailed explanation of dr. krauses views has been published recently in his book. "sequel tc bretton woods: a proposal to reform the world monetary system." i commend this book to members of congress and ask unanimous consent that the summary article be printed in the record.
 nixon and secretary rogers are pursuing an active diplomatic policy of negotiation in the mideast. that policy is certainly in the best traditions of u.s. diplomacy. however. it can succeed if there is any question in the minds of the arab states that israels deterrent defensive capabilities will be allowed to be weakenedor to be overmatched by massive soviet arms shipments. such as those which continue under the new u.s.s.r.-united arab republic agreement. moreover. the u.s. diplomacy of negotiation can succeed if the soviet leaders come to believe that the united states will retire from the field and leave an open path for soviet adventurism in the mideast. in such circumstances. the only diplomacy which could succeed would be a diplomacy of appeasement in the mideast such as occurred at munich in 1938. there is a determination in the senate. and the nation. that this should  happen. thus. a policy of maintaining israels deterrent strength is necessary and a logical corollary to the "negotiations track"  being pursued by secretary rogers. this is the clear view of over threequarters of the u.s. senate and. in my judgment. it is the best view for the american people. and  is a most opportune time for the voicing of this deep conviction regarding the situation in the mideastfor the united nations general assembly is  in session in new york and one of the prime questions under consideration and debate is the mideast. secretary rogers remarks of last thursday indicate that the administrations own thinking on the question of the mideast arms balance and the need to provide more phantom jets to israel is very close to the view held by such a large majority of the senate. american diplomacy operates most effectively when there is just this kind of parallel thinking and parallel action in the congress and the executive branch. it is most significant and heartening. in my judgment. that the secretary of state should  be thinking along the same lines as we are in the senate. secretary rogers is. rightfully. identified in the public mind with the "negotiations approach" to mideast policy. there had been some question as to his opinion on the question of supplying israel further military equipment at this time. the view has been attributed to secretary rogers that further arms shipments might detract from the diplomatic effort being pursued by the state department to achieve an interim partial settlement to secure the reopening of the suez canal. however. secretary rogers latest proncements on the subject indicate that even hethe personality
the senator has spoken very eloquently. and the situation deserves every word of his eloquence. it will be of interest to the senator to k that it was a struggle in the committee to get the $250 million so that it was additional to the totality of the bill. otherwise it would have been put into the pot with every other kind of aid. i feel that when we authorized the ecoic and humanitarian aidand it was on the motion of the senator from vermont -for 2 years rather than 1 year. we should have included this matter. i feel. personally. that the senator is helping us to correct something which we would have done if we had been "right on the ball" as we should have been. those of us who are for extending the authorization for ecoic and humanitarian aid for 2 years certainly would think that pakistan relief ought to be available for 2 years. i hope very much the amendment succeeds.
 nixon again recognized the role the u.n. has played in this area in his february 25. 1971. report. we are told that amendments will be offered to gut our support for the united nations to show our disapproval. one such amendment would cut the u.s. funding from $130 to $37.5 million. this would be a very superficial way and a very demeaning way for our great country to show its disapproval. if anything. we would show our disapproval best by paying our installments. but insisting that the rule book be obeyed and giving ice that we will insist that the united nations enforce its rules about those who do  pay their assessments. and so forth. and take whatever action we .will take in that regard a year later. rather than . i would like to ask those who would like to gut the funding of the united nations: are you against the u.n. childrens fund. are you against the work the food and agricultural organization is doing. are you opposed to the u.n. program for drug abuse control. are you opposed to the world health prograr.. are you opposed to the technical assistance program. are you opposed to the united nations development program. this hardly seems the role of a great power. there are infinitely stronger and better instruments to fashion in order to do. what we think ought to be done about the united nations than superficial and rather commonplace reactions of cutting the appropriations to show* our displeasure. if we engage in meatax fundcutting here. we will be weakening our position rather than strengthe:ing it.
s foreign policy report of february 25. 1971. entitled "u.s. foreign policy for the 1970s. building for peace." as it relates to the united nations be placed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks. i thank the senator from west virginia again for his courtesy.
. we can take on the world if we wish. or we can try to live with the world. there is a great deal more here than appears from the face of this amendment. we can take on the world. what is the $102 million being taken from. it is being taken from the underdeveloped countries. from the united nations development program. and from the world health organizationtheir dearest programs. interestingly egh. it is ironic that the undp is right  spending money to determine upon the validity of a project for navigation flood control and power between greece and turkey. and i should imagine that those who feel as this amendment reflects are  anxious to be hard on greece. nevertheless. they will be. if there is a material cut here. laying that aside. my point is this: the united states can give any ice it wants as to how tough it is going to get on policy or on collecting past installments. and so forth. but within a day or two after the china vote. to vote petulantly to cut these critical programs for the underdeveloped countries of the world is doing ourselves the greatest harm possible. it is said that this comes at night. with 20 minutes of debate and with senators  present to hear what is going on. but the question every senator has to ask himself. whether he is here or . is this: do we want to take on the world because of the china situation. or do we want to stay in the world and work out our problems with the world. i believe that taiwan will become a member of the united nations and that we will work out an accord with communist china. and i believe that we are on the threshold of an era of 30 years of peace. but this is the turning. if we take this road. we are damning ourselves. in my judgment. to a gibraltar. usa. to constant armament. to $120 billion.  $65 billion. in armament every year. it is absolutely the worst course for our country. especially as every man ks in his heart that if you get sore. you are generally wrong. we are sore. so we are going to cut the u.n. i hope very much the senate does  make this terrible mistake.
 it is absolutely amazing to me that the united states has  come to the point where an attempt is made literally to dismember the development loan program of our foreign aid program. which has gone on since 1948. to my kledge. because i have personally participated since then. and there is  a soul on the floor of the senate to defend it the manager of the bill.  the ranking miity member. i am a member of the committee on foreign relations. and i am going to defend it. but it is unbelievable to me that we have gotten to this pass.
. i point out two factual considerations. let us understand that the long knives are out here. we have  adopted an amendment that it is the sense of the senate that the support of the united nations organization should come down to the 25percent figure. allegedly as recommended by the commission which made this report which has been so very. very much spoken about. the lodge commission. let me say that those senators who are trying to use the lodge report against the u.n. are seriously misrepresenting its basic thrust.
. i invite the attention of senators to two items which are directly pertinent to the debate on foreign aid  underway in congress and the administration. first. the united nations development program has just held its pledging conference. and it is worth ing that 119 countries pledged moneys to carry on the work of the undp. it is also to be ed that of these 119 governments. 62 governments had increased their funding pledges this year. i also e that the u.s. delegate to the undp held forward the hope that a substantial u.s. pledging contribution would still be forthcoming. i ask unanimous consent that the new york times article on this pledging conference be printed at this point in the record.
. if anyone needs to be convinced in that respect. look at the morning newspapers. castro is on his way to chile. expecting that the situation will change insofar as he is concerned. and it will. just as it is changing with respect to mainland china. kosygin is in a "detente cordiale" with canada. these are  bad things. but it indicates what happens when a vacuum is created. signs are on the wall to show who is going to step in. the reasons for opposing this bill are fallacious and dangerous to our country. men who advocate that position are as patriotic as i am. but i have stated what i believe to be the essence of our duty here. i believe the clear sign dictates that the united states can. should . and need  signal an end of its role in the leadership of the free world. but that is how a defeat of the aid bill will be read and has been read from the action of the senate 1 week ago friday when the senate turned down the foreign aid bill. we have trimmed it and designed it in a way to appeal to everyone who feels as i have expressed. i hope that for those reasons the senate will approve the bill.
 to violate the united nations sanctions against rhodesia. sanctions which the united states voted for in the security council. is most unwise and constitutes contempt for international law. i feel very strongly that this is a matter of basic principle in international law and the posture of the united states with respect to the united nations and the traditional u.s. role of world leadership in support of world law and in support of the united nations. a number of senators vigorously opposed this amendment on the floor of the senate. and apparently had succeeded in having it deleted from the committee bill. only to find the issue ultimately turn in the other direction following one of the most involved and confused procedural wrangles of recent experience in the senate. i feel dutybound to vote to reject the conference report because of the position adopted by the conference on this question. my decision to oppose the conference report is based equally upon my opposition to the modification made in conference to the mansfield amendment. which greatly vitiates its effect and significance of the mansfield amendment as adopted by the senate. i believe the time has come when the senate must stand firm on the issue of the vietnam war and  recede each time in favor of the position espoused by the house conferees. this is  the first time this has happened. despite the clear will and intent of the senate. which. in my judgment. reflects the deep and heartfelt view of a clear majority of the american people. it is time for the senate to insist on its proper role in establishing both a policy of complete withdrawal. and establishing a date by which this policy should be accomplished.
. as my colleagues k. a debate about the rationale for and future of the foreign aid programs of this country continues in the congress as well as in the press. one of the most widely discussed statements was that of senator church which set forth in detail his disillusionment with the present bilateral foreign assistance program in explanation of his negative vote on the bill. in the past week. three eminent authorities have replied to senator churchs thesis. they are lincoln gordon. a ranking university official who earlier served as the assistant secretary of state for interamerican affairs and consulate to brazil. father theodore hesburgh of re dame university. and robert hunter of the overseas development council. i ask unanimous consent that their articles be printed in the record.
it is a fact that what the question of the senator from vermont and the answer of the senator from washington leads to is that it is  intended as a duplication of the foreign aid bill in this appropriation. and insofar as there is a duplication. the senator would contemplate that that duplication would be omitted. also. is it  a fact that the same appropriations committee will have to deal with the foreign aid appropriations and that the committee has two bites at it. one in the authorization and the other in the appropriation.
 is authorized to transfer to israel. by sale. credit sale. or guaranty. such aircraft. and equipment appropriate to use. maintain. and protect such aircraft. or may be necessary to counteract any past. present or future increased military assistance provided to other countries of the middle east. at the time this section was passed we were awaiting a foreign aid bill that was bogged down. just as we are  awaiting a foreign aid bill which may be bogged down. so we gave authority to proceed as to aircraft. although many other military supplies in the military sales act are  referred to in section 501.
reserving the right to object. let us understand what we are doing. because i am here to propose amendments to something. and i want to k where we are. the measure the distinguished majority leader speaks of  is the conference report on the foreign aid bill. is that  correct.
the reason i ask is because the continuing resolution. which is tied to this. has hing for the united nations development program. i wish the record to be clear that the conferees did contemplate that there would be provision for the undp. because it will be possible to reach that question again in the january supplemental.
i wish to make a few observations. first. i should like to express what i k to be the thanks of the country and the senate to senator proxmire. senator young. senator ellender. senator cranston[ senator fulbright. senator cooper. senator case. senator aikenall those who participated in bringing about this meeting of the minds on what seemed absolutely insoluble. i think it is a triumph for the senate. i think the majority leader and the miity leader are entitled to take great satisfaction from our ability to extricate ourselves from a seemingly hopeless situation. it is something that should inspire the confidence of our country and of the world in americas ability to govern itself. i should like to e that a very important international activity in technical assistance. the united nations development program. is omitted from this solution. i understand the reasons. but i think it is very important to point out that it is omitted. the reason for its omission is that the house did  make a provision for it in the continuing resolution. the house explanation as to why that was  done is contained in the house report on foreign assistance and related programs and appropriations on pages 11 and 12. i ask unanimous consent that they be printed in the record.
. i would like to make a fact clear on the overseas private investment corp.. and  just advance a theory. that there will  be $100 million in claims but $200 million. the fact is that that is true in any insurance company situation. they have lost $1 million that they have made. that is a profit. that is pretty good for a u.s. corporation-$30 million in the last 2 years. if it is a going concern. it will result in doing for foreign aid exactly what its opponents want donethat is. to obviate much of it. but i will deal with that question at aher time. i did  want the record to stand bare on the fact of the loss. but these are claims. they have lost $1 million. but they have made $30 million.
. reserving the right to object. and i shall  object. i would want to get the feeling of the majority leader as to whether we are facing a permanent curtailment of the first track. and if so we should k it. if it is only that the majority leader feels that we have had a rather important vote and that we might finish the foreign aid bill if we were to go ahead a little earlier than originally planned. that would be aher matter. however. i do think we ought to k the intent with which the unanimousconsent request is made.
. i call to the attention of the senate the passing of a dear friend and great american. llewellyn thompson. former ambassador to moscow and top diplomat of the united states. i k i am joined by many members of the senate in extending deepest sympathy to his wife. jane. whom my wife and i k so well and to his children. i wish to convey publicly my appreciation and the appreciation of all the people of new york for llewellyn thompsons great service to our country. he was a unique leader in respect of or relations with the u.s.s.r. and i attribute to his gifted diplomacy much of the atmosphere in which progress was possible on disarmament. berlin. austria. and other major aspects of relaxation of tensions and peace in united statesu.s.s.r. relations.
. during the congressional recess a great and very wise anerican retired after many years of distinguished service to his country and to the world. i refer to paul hoffman who. following a distinguished career in the u.s. government. became the administrator of the united nations development programundp. in a recent publication of the united nations entitled "years of challenge and response." paul hoffman concisely sets forward the role the undp has. and is playing in furthering ecoic development in the developing third world. i commend paul hoffmans remarks to the senate. i ask unanimous consent that the article be printed at this point in the record.
. it should be recognized that the bill  before the senate is only the first essential step of others subsequently to reform the international monetary system. the hour demands that we also treat these longterm reforms with urgency. i ask unanimous consent that an excellent report on this subject prepared by 12 eminent ecoists be inserted in the record at this point.
. i submit a concurrent resolution to alter the formula for distributing special drawing rightssdrs--and allocate a larger proportion to developing countries. this concurrent resolution has been submitted in the other body by representative henry s. reuss. of wisconsin. the chairman of the subcommittee on international exchange and payments of the joint ecoic committee. of which i am the ranking republican member. as the resolution states: the u.s. should favor review and revision of the formula and process for distributing sdrs to insure that they are promoting maximum ecoic welfare for all imf member countries by (a) assuring an appropriate supply of international liquidity. (b) facilitating ecoic growth in lowincome countries. and (c) expanding the exports of the united states and other industrial countries. with a beneficial impact on employment. under the current distribution formula. industrial countries receive 73 percent of the sdrs and poor nations obtain only 27 percent in the initial allocations. this disparity. the two sponsors emphasized. tends to exacerbate. rather than diminish. the income gap between industrial and developing nations. the bulk of newly allocated sdrs will eventually find their way into the reserve balances of industrial nations regardless of the distribution formula. javits and reuss pointed out. the issue that arises. therefore. relates to the transitional impact on wealth and real incomes of any particular distribution formula. the question is  whether the world needs a special drawing rights mechanismit doesor even how many sdrs should be distributed during a given period--an overwhelming majority of imf members must agree on a particular amount. the issue is one of equity. the present distribution formula. as the resolution explains. constrains lowincome countries from increasing imports of capital goods and other items essential to development as much as they would like. consequently. exports of these products from industrial nations. including the united states. are curtailed. we thereby forgo a strengthening of the u.s. trade balance and additional jobs for americans that could come from a revised formula for distributing sdrs. aside from the objections of developing countries about the current distribution formula. the sdr facility will probably require amendment as the outcome of coming negotiations to diminish the reservecurrency role of the dollar and to immobilize excess outstanding dollar reserves. thus. the time is appropriate for also revising the sdr distribution formula. giving a larger proportion of sdr allocations to developing countries and thereby enabling industrial nations to export more would ease a conflict on trade balances that is likely to arise among industrial countries. each of the latter desires to have a zero trade balance at worst and prefers a surplus. multilateral agreement on international monetary reform is therefore likely to come more easily and speedily if the wealthy countries are willing to allocate a larger percentage of sdr distributions to the poorer nations of the world. the text of the concurrent resolution follows:
. in an important policy statement which was released today. the prestigious atlantic council said that it was urgent that "visible multilateral negotiations" be initiated at the earliest possible time to restructure and modernize the international monetary system. i e that this recommendation is totally in keeping with the spirit of the communique which was issued on behalf of the group of 10 nations when the interim smithsonian agreement was successfully concluded on december 18. this communique stated. in part: the ministers and govers agreed that discussions should be promptly undertaken. particularly in the framework of the imip. to consider reform of the international monetary system over the longer term. i e the councils comment that: as a practical matter it is wholly appropriate for the united states to take the lead in initiating the negotiations leading to an improved system. the u.s. has a particular responsibility in the system and a strong incentive to move further. i think that the history of negotiations in the international ecoic areaand this includes both trade and monetary negotiationsdoes make it clear that without a strong u.s. leadership position commensurate with the u.s. position in the world. negotiations are  likely to progress satisfactorily. i invite the attention of senators and the administration to this statement. which is worthy of close attention. i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record at this point along with the impressive list of the committee members who concur in the statement. the list includes a former treasury secretary. the former chairman of the federal reserve system. and other distinguished authorities in the field of international finance.
. i thank both of my friends for the elucidation. i wish to state that i associate myself with the successive explanations which have been made to the first two of the package of three amendments. the third amendment reads as follows: on page 13. line 8. after the period. insert the following: "hing in section 3(4) of this act shall be construed to require any further specific statutory authorization to permit members of the armed forces of the united states to participate jointly with members of the armed forces of one or more foreign countries in the headquarters operations of highlevel military commands which were established prior to the date of enactment of this act and pursuant to the united nations charter or any treaty ratified by the united states prior to such date."
i believe this is a substantive change in what the united nations enabling act states respecting any prospective american commitment to the security council and it should be separately considered by the senate and by the house of representatives. as a policy matter. i do  k to what decision we would come. however. in terms of the war powers act there is loophole being closed here. there is something new being done. whether we should do it respecting the united nations is something which i think should be a matter of separate consideration. for these reasons. i would feel. myself. that the amendment should be rejected.
 nixon has repeatedly urged the congress to act on this item. when he signed the ida authorization bill on the 10th of march. he ed: the legislation which i sign today is evidence of the willingness of the united states to provide the funds required to carry out these programs. the amounts called for are within our capabilities. they are consistent with and have been taken into account in our budgetary planning. they are essential if the idea of multilateral assistance is to remain a viable concept. and they are necessary if we are to continue to participate constructively in an international effort which has. in large part because of our past leadership. played such a major role in fostering progress in the developing world. the agreement to replenish ida resources at a $2.4 billion replenishment level was carefully negotiated by the major do countries of the world under the leadership of the united states. this agreement was due to come into effect on july 1 of last year. when ida ran out of commitment authority to make further loans. since that time 15 nationsother than the united stateshave come forward with a total of $454 million to keep idas work going while the world awaits the longdelayed u.s. ratification which is contingent on the congress appropriation process. the sole requirement to bring that agreement into effect is the vote of the u.s. govers as authorized in legislation passed by the senate in october last year and the house earlier this year. a list of do country advance contributions to the ida reads: advanced contributions to ida since million canada -----------------------$110.0 denmark -----------------------8.0 finland ------------------------4. 1 japan -------------------------48.0 u.k. --------------------------103.7 yugoslavia ----------------------1.3 australia -----------------------16.0 germany -----------------------72.3 kuwait ------------------------10.8 sweden ------------------------34.0 way -------------------------6.0 iceland --------------------------.2 ireland -------------------------1.3 netherlands ---------------------22.5 france ------------------------25.0 total --------------------454.0 americans have become accustomed to thinking of themselves as the most generous people in the world. this pride is certainly genuine. but. today. while in percentage of gnp americas contribution to development assistance programs is continuing to fall. others are coming forward and raising their contributions. ida. which the united states helped to create in order to have burdensharing in development. has become recently an example of this in the important business of helping the poor nations of the world. fifteen other nations have been carrying the burden. in these months also. our increased contributions to various multilateral organizationswhich have  yet been madewere used to justify dramatic and unfortunate slashes in our bilateral assistance programs. and in the trade field. the united states has  been able to proceed with legislation granting tariff preferences to developing nationsagain despite the fact that the united states played a leadership role in pushing this policy which the other major industrialized nations have  adopted. i must point to the effect of these policies on the u.s. expectation that countries of the developing world will cooperate with the united states in the upcoming reform of the international monetary system and the reshaping of the international trading order. the u.s. expectation of cooperation is signaled by secretary connallys proposal to increase the size of the negotiating table from a group of 10 rich countries to a group of 20 which will include representatives from the developing world. i urge that first the senate and the congress meet this important obligation of the united states by providing for the full funding of the third ida replenishment. i want to commend the appropriations committee and particularly the leadership of the foreign operations subcommittee for its decisive statement in its report saying that there is "justifiable reason for delaying action until fiscal year 1973." in closing let me say that it is particularly important at this period in our history and when a major international conference is underway at unctad iii where other developed nations are making new developmental assistance commitmentssuch as the "link"-that the united states carry its world responsibilities in this vital area. it is these burdensharing development programs which make a positive contribution toward the type of world we all would like to see.
. in reviewing dr. bums speech. two points must be recalled: first. that months continue to slip by without any substantial real progress in terms of the negotiations outside of some talk about the "shape of the negotiating table." second. that dr. burns chooses his words and timing carefully. this is only the second time that dr. burns has outlined a major ecoic program during his tenure as federal reserve chairman. the first time was at pepperdine college. on december 7. 1970. when he put forward his thoughts regarding an "incomes policy" and "productivity." among other matters. that speech was ahead of its time. but it had an emous influence on the course of our domestic ecoic policy. i expect that the montreal speech will have a similar effect. since those who see clearly the road the united states should follow in international monetary reform have a great advantage over the naysayers who have positive program other than continuing international uncertainty and tension between nations. dr. burns speech has moved the negotiations a step forward. and by this action a creative step has been taken toward strengthening the ties between the nations of the free world at this very difficult time in our international relations. i ask unanimous consent that dr. burns address of may 12. entitled "some essentials of international monetary reform". an editorial from the new york times of may 14. and a wall street journal article date may 15. be printed in the record.
. following a very perceptive article by james michener on the state of united statessouth african relations which appeared in the new york times magazine on january 23 of this year. i wrote to secretary of state william rogers urging the adoption of mr. micheners suggestion that a high level black american diplomat be assigned to our embassy in south africa. on february 10. the department of state replied that the assignment of such a black american diplomat "is in fact receiving our active and most serious consideration." on april 24. i wrote the department of state again to inquire as to what progress had been made in making this assignment and to reiterate my strong feelings that the united states should in way. expressly or implied. abet the unbelievable apartheid (racial segregation) policies  being followed as government policy in south africa. the continued refusal to assign a black diplomat to our embassy in pretoria solely because of his race would be such a concession. i recently received aher letter from the department of state assuring me thatthe department is moving forward. there is willingness or desire to make concessions to apartheid which all of us abhor. the letter also gives the names and describes the duties of three black american officers who "have been performing special tdy or other duties in and out of south africa for some time ." i ask unanimous consent that the complete texts of the aforementioned letters be printed in the record at this point.
 to insist on including in these negotiations. in addition to the four items already stipulated. the following: first. subscription by the u.s.s.r. to the fair trading rules of gatt--general agreement on tariffs and tradeor to join gatt itself. second. protection of patents and copyrights on a reciprocal basis through the international convention or by a special convention on the subject. third. freedom of access by business and techogical personnel to the business and industrial centers of both countries. fourth. a relationship with or membership in the international bank for reconstruction and development and the international monetary fundimpso that the u.s.s.r. may have a role in the international monetary system to be established following the smithsonian institution agreement and play a role with the rest of the developed world in aid to the developing world. it is eworthy in this regard that the u.s.s.r. has been since its beginning a member of the international labor organizationlo. the u.s.s.r. is obviously bidding for ecoic respectability and acceptance as a major world industrial power. this is the moment to invite the u.s.s.r. to join the world ecoy and  to remain out of it as agitator and critic as it has for 54 years. it is a time for boldness in the world ecoy and the united states can leapfrog the new protectionism which could develop here at home. and in the eec and japan. we can do this by bringing in the two communist giants. if we do  raise our sights to includes the u.s.s.r. and the peoples republic of china in the world ecoy. we will be missing the other half of the greatest chance for peace in this century.
. i thank the senator. i just need a small amount of time. we are all sophisticated here. we k that even if we do something that is right in principle. we have to do it in the proper way. and that is what the senator from nebraska is giving us an opportunity to do. to do this right. i asked our ambassador to the united nations. george bush. to give me an analysis of how the u.n. contribution works. i am in receipt of a telegram from him. i ask unanimous consent that that telegram be printed in the record.
. this is the way it works. in this fall the united states delegation will ask the general assembly to reduce our contribution to 25 percent in future years. ambassador bush is confident that can be done over a period of time providing we do  approach it on a coercive basis. that is what the senator from nebraska has in mind. at the time the general assembly so actsand he has doubt that it willafter the 3 years is over. we wil: reduce our contribution. to act alone and stop payments will  help. we will still owe the money and we will have a big assessment at the u.n. we should  go against our treaty and contract obligations and reverse those rules. hing is really accomplished by that action. so for the very fundamental reason that this is the right thing to do and the right way in which to do it. i hope very much that the senate will accept the amendment that has been offered to us in a very statesmanlike way by the senator from nebraska
 in the antihijacking bill. without any regard to how one stands on the problems of the mideast. the unlimited murders that have taken place in the world are encompassed within the concept of terrorism because it brings nations and all people and. indeed. the whole world to its knees by this technique which is intended only to seek to intimidate without any thought to reason. law. morality. or human experience. this must be resisted by the whole organized world. secretary general waldheim has recognized that as the principal issue of the united states and has approved its issue as an item on the agenda at once. i hope that the senate of the united states and other vitally important governments in the world will also do so. i hope very much that the effort will continue to be unremitting. matter where the chips may fall. the united nations is the most appropriate body in the world to consider this matter and to marshal the moral convictions of the world against such barbarism as these terrorist murders.
. the statements i have read in the pressand i have read a number of papers on the subjectmake it clear that a group of african nations have decided that they want to see the matter deferred and their spokesmen are described as a representative of mquritius and the representative of saiudi arabia. later on in the article it appears that the united states primarily supported this through our spokesman. george bush. and the only other speaker. the delegate for france. said that his government would support the inclusion of the issue on the agenda. so. we have yet to hear from other nations. i am very hopeful that. as ambassador bush expressed confidence on the floor that there were egh qualified votes to inscribe the item on the agenda. it will be done.
. upon the occasion of the annual meeting of the pan american development foundation in washington. i ask unanimous consent that the translation of an article that appeared in vision on the valuable grassroots work of this organization be placed in the record. the pan american development foundation is sponsored by the organization of american states and is responsible to an independent board of trustees composed of leading citizens from th and south america. i am hoed to be a member of this board and e that senator kennedy is also a member. i also ask unanimous consent that the list of members of the board of trustees be placed in the record.
. i would like to give this message to george bushhis very distinguished son. our ambassador and representative to the u.n.-to his family and his friends: that he is remembered most happily as a very distinguished senator and a very wonderful human being by one of his colleagues here. who had the privilege of serving with him and working with him in the u.s. senate.
 i just walked in the door as the chair said. "approved." i was downstairs in the foreign relations committee. where we were marking up the foreign aid bill. it just happens that i was engaged. and was unable to be here at the particular moment it was brought up. so i am trying to follow the chairmans suggestion that instead of having two votes. we have one. by the motion to recommit. if we have one vote. i do  think there are any other amendments to this particular bill to come up after it is reported back. the senate will manifest its will on one vote. and that will be the end of it.
 of the european communities commission to the united states. the comments made by ambassador soames during his 2day visit which  have been published in the march 2. 1973. european community news. in my view. puts u.s.-eec relations in proper perspective. ambassador soames judgment is most important in that too much was being made of the differences and  egh of the "very real common interest which should hold us together." it is my hope that the warmth of the reception of ambassador soames. the timing of the submittal of the trade bill which the administration  has under preparation and which submittal is responsive to western european wishes. and the administrations recent initiative in devaluing the dollar will clearly indicate to our western european friends that the united states is approaching the year of europe positively and with good will. it is my hope that western europe will respond in an equally positive fashion. i ask unanimous consent that the report of sir christopher soames visit to the united states be inserted in the
 up on his offer and take meaningful steps to insure that the congresss participation in the entire range of trade policymaklng is increased. i ask unanimous consent that ambassador eberles fine address entitled "world trade: american strategy." be printed in the record.
. i wish to express my appreciation to a number of assistants of my own and of the foreign relations committee. who rendered extraordinary help in respect to the bill. i would like to thank peter lakeland of my own staff. a former foreign service officer and a very gifted foreign policy assistant to me for some years. who did a monumental job. which any professional would consider a lifes work. in the preparation for this debate. the drafting of the committee report. and the research. all of which went with it. then to seth tillman. who is one of the assistants to senator fulbright. nh0 had a big hand in drafting the committee report. which i thought was a magnificant document. and mr. tillman worked under the direction of carl marcy. the very hoed and very much respected chief of staff of our committee. to whom i also wish to give every credit for bringing the matter to the floor and for the preparation on it.
. during. this week the annual meetings of the international monetary fund and the world bank are taking place in nairobi. kenya. this is the first time such meetings have been held on the african continent. while these meetings are crucial for the establishment of a new order in world monetary affairs. other important issues. such as the replenishment of funds for international financial institutions. are also being considered. unfortunately. the role of the united states in this critically important aspect of aiding world development has changed from that of unrivaled leadership. an excellent editorial from the wall street journal of september 21. 1973. points out clearly the costs to the united states should this mark a policy shift. i ask unanimous consent that the editorial be printed in the reord.
 in 1970 when i was a general delegate there. one other point. one of the excuses for cutting down. which we have already done with respect to a bilateral foreign aid program. has been the fact that we are building up and financing an international organization. like the world bank. the interamerican development bank. the asian development bank. but the fact is that we are  following through on these commitments. one of the crying needs for appropriations is precisely in those particular areas. it only compounds the deplorable situation in which our country would find itself were it to make this proposed further cut. finally. and i think this is a conclusive argument. we have a new secretary of state. we have a new posture regarding foreign policy. we have done our utmost to make a success of our foreign policy. most of us understand the grave deficiencies in our domestic policy. let us  make the mistake of putting in danger our progress in foreign affairs by such a shortsighted proposal as this. for these reasons. i believe the committee has done more than egh to accept the conception of an ecoy that proportionately will make certain that we have a wellplanned rather than an undeveloped foreign assistance program.
i have been reading the editorial opinion in the country. i have before me two editorials from leading newspapersthe washington post and the new york timesone captioned "a responsible foreign aid policy." the other "inative aid reform." the new direction of foreign aid has been widely hailed in editorial opinion throughout the country. does  the senator feel that it is a sheer construction of good faith in undertaking a totally new program directed to the most poor and the most dire situation. that because these amendments have been very carefully debated and considered by the committee. the senate ought to at least. for this once. abide by our judgment and give this matter a chance.
 was given broad authority. i personally would  see any great obections to it. however. i would want to point out to the senate that it does at least tell him we consider the first priority would be the various elements of humanitarian assistance which the senator from massa..husetts emphasized when he changed the word "include." which means that it has equal priority. to the word "especially." which would give the foreign relations committee in respect of legislative oversight the right to claim that it had a priority. that is one distinction. the other distinction that i think we ouglt to be aware of is. ". . . assistance for such purposes shall be distributed to the maximum extent practicable under the auspices of and by the united nations other international organizations. multilateral institutions. and private voluntary agencies with a minimum presence and activity of u.s. government personnel." i would like the senate to tell us why he feels he wants to be so restrictive. i would personally prefer it if he could say that assistance for such purposes shahl be distributed insofar as practicable under the auspices of and by the united nations. other international organizations. multilateral institutions. and private voluntary organizations. i see reason why we should bow out of it by restricting ourselves to a minimum presence and activity of the united states government personnel. that would be drawing into the woodwork. seems to me. i suggest that rather than leave it to the conference to try to define this. we do it right here and  and strike the word "to" at the end of line 2 on line 3 strike the words "the maximum extent" and say "insofar as practicable" and so forth. and put a period at the end of the word "agencies" on line 5. in that way. i would consider that the amendment would be entirely appropriate to give at least a claimed priority to these highly humanitarian purposes and  absolutely tie the hands of the united states in the administration of its aid program.
. we are advised and i say this because it is essential to make this very clear to the senate as the basis on which the miity side at least with the permission of the senator from vermont would take the amendment. that this amendment was adopted by the senate in a foreign aid bill which never became law here recently. it is to be understood that if we adopt this provision in the senate this aftern. as it is exactly identical with the one in the house bill. there will be opportunity to change it in conference. but on the representation. one. that we did adopt it before and. two. that the situation relating to the authorization remains the same. i would be prepared. if the senator from vermont is willing. to take it.
. i submit. for myself and senators humphrey. dole. and mcgee a concurrent resolution calling for a world food conference to be held under united nations auspices in 1974. we feel that such a conference is essential in order to discuss means of increasing food production. improving distribution of food. developing a world policy on food reserves. and providing for world relief efforts in cases of natural disaster. it is important .that the u.s. government lend maximum support to calling such a conference. secretary of state kissinger. in his opening address before the united nations general assembly. proposed such a conference. he pledged u.s. cooperation in an effort to assure that all the people of the world community be fed. he said: the growing threat to the worlds food supply deserves the urgent attention of this assembly. since 1969 global consumption of cereals has risen more rapidly than production. stocks are at the lowest levels in years. we  face the prospect thateven with bumper crops--the world may  rebuild its seriously depleted reserves in this decade. this call for action deserves the most urgent support of the congress for the reasons stated in this concurrent resolution. time is running out for dealing with the world food situation if we are to avoid a major catastrophe for millions of people around the world. senators humphrey. dole. and mcgee and i have introduced an amendment to the foreign aid bill. which would begin the first steps in dealing with world food problems. that amendment was a coordinated and related step that is fully in line with the concurrent resolution we are  proposing. there has been a great deal of concern recently with shortages of certain agricultural commodities. and the apparent inability of existing international organizations to deal satisfactorily with the pressing question of access to food resources. this will be a matter of increasing importance in world trade in the years to come. and it deserves immediate attention and long range planning. i call to the attention of my colleagues two statements i wish to be printed in the record. one is a statement from dr. a. h. boerma. director general of the food and agriculture organization of the united nations supporting dr. kissingers proposal for a world food conference. the other is an excellent article by anthony lewis on the world food situation. which appeared in the new york times on october 1. i ask unanimous consent that the concurrent resolution and these two documents be printed in the record.
. more than 6 years after the conclusion of the 1967 6day war. egypt and syria seem to have felt sufficiently strong to thrust aside the ceasefire agreement. strike across the agreed upon ceasefire lines. and resume open warfare against israel on the most solemn jewish holy day of yom kippur. that other arab states have  already joined in the invasion is indicative that  all arab leaders see warfare as the solution to their differences with israel. in a transparent effort to mislead world opinion and with regard for the coming united nations debates. syria and egypt sought to label israel as the aggressor even before the israelis had time to mobilize their armies and on the israelis prime religious holidaydefying all reason. united nations decisions since the 1967 war have been so one sided in favor of the arab side in the arabisrael conflict as to embolden them to feel that they could pursue this canard successfully. it is good to see that one has bought it. the situation presents a great challengeand with it a great opportunityfor u.s. diplomacy which is  entering a new phase with dr. henry kissinger as secretary of state. longer carrying the burden of vietnam. the united states can  more effectively move to bring about peace in the middle east.  who is similarly to be commended. has taken a very sensible and proper means of action which i hope will be pursued and will be very much aided by this resolution.
i thank my colleague. if i may present one other matter to him. i should like his opinion on it. it is a fact that the united nations has. on the whole. been considered by many others to have taken a biased view against israel. punishing it for all the actions it took on the territory of its neighbors. but it has  said a word to the arab states about the actions they took in harboring terrorists and guerrillas. who have been harmful to the whole world just to the combatant partiesin the taking of human life. i ask the senator if he does  think we might hope to see that some degree of fairness will be restored to the united nations itself so that nations will realize that it is  to their interest to encourage by their actions lawlessness in the world. terror in the world. that we may soon see an international agreement against terrorism. which has been impossible so far to obtain. also. that a number of the european countries which have  been sympathetic to a rather fair position in this struggle may take aher "think" on it. especially as it is considerably complicated by the energy crisis. and join the united states in the position which our country has taken about seeking negotiations face to face as the only way in which to bring this matter to a conclusion.
. in addition to the vital role played by the united nations in the containment and cessation of the recent outbreak of hostilities in the middle east and the crucial role the united nations has played in so many other world crisis situations. in recent years there has been an ongoing debate as to whether the united nations is more than a debating society. in my judgment. the u.n. has proved its worth many times over by its essential peacekeeping role and the settlement of disputes in areas such as cyprus. korea. the congo. and other areas. furthermore. the united nations has sponsored the declaration of human rights and numerous international conventions. such as the conventions dealing with geide. forced labor. and slavery. all of which serve to protect the undeniable human rights and civil liberties of all peoples. in an article published in the september 1973 free minda publication of the american humanist associationmr. jesse gordon has succinctly described why. in his judgment. the united nations is the useful and essential world organization that it. in fact. is. i recommend this article. "aha and the united nations." for the information of all senators. and i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record.
i would certainly favor their consideration. i do  k what the considerations might be which might induce the u.n. to believe. on balance. that it is unwise or wise. that depends on the particular case. but i am  begging the question as to the soviet union. i just point out that because they are getting away with itand maybe there is other way. for many reasons. including their power and their position in the worldthat is excuse for letting rhodesia get away with it. when the united nations has at long last acted. that is my argument.
. let us remember that the global figures cited in opposition to this report include an emergency resulting from a war in the mideast which involves $2.2 billion in military aid alone. this bill represents an effort to bring about the righting of a grave crisis which resulted in serious imperilment of the ecoy of europe and japanand damage to our own ecoyas well as our effort to prevent the soviet union from sitting astride the middle east and controlling its vital energy resources. which could "finlandize" all of europe. these are tremendous important issues. in looking at the foreign aid bill. i hope members will recall the towering example of statesmanship of great britain under churchill. who in 1940. when he was on the threshold of being invaded by hitler from the european continent. sent one of the two ready armed divisions in the british isles to th africa. king full well it is at such a time that one has to be bold. and that is the acid test of a nations purposes and intentions. that is what we are faced with here. there are some very admirable parts of the bill in addition to those already detailed by the senator from minnesota
. in addition to the vital role played by the united nations in the containment and cessation of the recent outbreak of hostilities in the middle east and the crucial role the united nations has played in so many other world crisis situations. in recent years there has been an ongoing debate as to whether the united nations is anything more than a debating society. in my judgment. the u.n. has proved its worth many times over in its essential peace keeping role and in the settlement of such disputes in areas as cyprus. korea. the congo. and other areas. furthermore. the united nations has sponsored the declaration of human rights. and numerous international conventions. such as the conventions dealing with geide. forced labor. and slavery. all of which serve to protect the human rights and civil liberties of all peoples. in an article published in the september 1973 free minda publication of the american humanist associationmr. jesse gordon has succinctly described why. in his judgment. the united nations is the useful and essential world organization that it. in fact. is. i recommend this article. "aha and the united nations." for the information of all senators. and i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record.
 as a matter of fact. it was directed against rulers. because it was felt hing could be directed against governments. which were sovereign. and a government could  be arraigned or tried. but ruler for the time being in any government could be arraigned or tried. and that is contained in article iv. which is defined as follows: persons committing geide or any of the other acts enumerated in article iiiwhich is the definition articleshall be punished. whether they are constitutionally responsible rulers. public officials or private individuals. and to that extent the treaty covers official personalities. but it can cover a government. and it is  seeking to. because of the point of governmental sovereignty. which is fully recognized in the united nations or its convention.
i would like to say just a word about the ination of joseph sisco to be under secretary of state. i k. as he is a personal friend as well as a government official. that he had hoped to retire to the presidency of a college. hopefully in my own state. and this was very dear to his heart. however. at the request of the secretary of state. in response to what has always been his giving the highest priority to calls to duty. he is remaining with the state department. he has. as a foreign service officer. both in the united nations and for the department of state. rendered great services to our nation and its people in the interests of the peace and security of our country. i believe it should be ed . at this stage of his career. that he is again sacrificing himself in the interests of our nation. and that we should express our gratitude to him for it.
. i commend to my colleagues a letter from five distinguished ecoists deploring the refusal of the house of representatives to authorize further u.s. support for the international development association. the "soft loan" window of the world bank for the poorest of the developing countries. the action of the oil producing countries in raising their prices for oil will add further aher adverse factor in the development plans of the developing countries. and promises to produce the most severe hardship unless concerted international action is taken to assist these countries. continued u.s. support for ida is essential. and is especially crucial in convincing the oil producing countries of the seriousness of the situation for the developing countries so that they will shoulder their rightful share of the burden they have themselves contributed to. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record an editorial entitled. "ida funds: to help the poorest nations."
. one of the real geniuses of our time in his world has just passed away at the wonderful age of 85sol hurok. the impressario. uficial ambassador extraordinary to the soviet union. and one of the most colorful figures who ever produced for the american theater. concert. and operatic stage in the united states. he certainly has earned national attention. and for his work in cultural interchange with the soviet union and the deeds of his whole life. national thanks and appreciation. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the most impressive obituary in the new york times of march 6.
. after extensive meetings with the foreign ministers of the latin american countries and members of congress in washington. which i attended. and the communique of which is appended. secretary of state kissinger addressed the general assembly of the organization of american states in atlanta. ga.. the opening session of which i also attended. here he put forward the succeessor policy to the "good neighbor of the 1930s as the new policy among equals of the "good partner." in my judgment. the secretarys address is a most significant one: a deep and far reaching development has occurred in latin america. latin america is industrializing and is molding a strong sense of national and regional self identity. this fact. taken in combination with the ecoic and political stresses the world is facing today makes the new dialog between the united states and our latin american neighbors imperative. secretary kissinger addresses these issues earnestly and cogently. i ask unanimous consent that his address to the general assembly of the organization of american states and the communique of the foreign ministers meeting in washington be inserted in the record.
. the real point of this resolution is that the united nations should speak out for peace for all the world. this should be done in spite of the very misguided point of view by some small nations or developing nations which are adopting almost a bias in favor of arab terrorism and constantly condemning actions by israel which is seeking to contend with that terrorism. however. there may be one small grain of comfort in this terrible tragedy. at least the u.s. senate lays siege to the situation in a realistic light by adopting a resolution like this which endeavors to restore a sense of justice to the feelings of outrage which the world must feel against acts of terrorism. whether arab or any other source. in addition. it is witness to a signal bankruptcy on the part of some countries in the united nations and outside the united nations in  dealing with the issue of terrorism which is a threat to all the world. a number of nations who are united nations members. act on the theory that to fail to condemn terrorism will help in the anticolonlal struggle. that is standing morality on its head. i. therefore. congratulate the distinguished senator from minnesota for the foresight and the world vision for which he is so famous. which has induced him to enable us to vote on this resolution today.
. during the past year i have been privileged to serve as 1 of 20 members on a united nations panel studying multinational corporations. on friday. june 7. the ecoic and social council of the united nations issued the result of our work entitled "the report of the group of eminent persons to study the impact of multinational corporations on development and international relations." the members of the group represent a distinguished crosssection of world leaders in business. government. and academia. with representatives from both developed and developing countries. the other u.s. participant. j. irwin miller. chairman of the board of cummins engine co.. inc.. rendered a distinguished and extremely valuable service to the group. the report was issued in three parts: part i consisted of the general report on the role of multinational corporations in developing countries. part ii contains more specific discussion on such issues as ownership. financial flows. techogy. transfer pricing. employment. consumer protection. competition and market structure. and information disclosure. and part iii contains the comments of individual members of the group who wished either to disagree or to expand on the first two parts of the report. the group held three sessionsin new york in september 1973. geneva. switzerland. in ember 1973. and in new york in march 1974. although my senate activities prevented me from attending all of the sessions i would have wished to have attended. i attended the key sessions and followed all the proceedings very closely through my staff. in order to contribute to the debate on the subject. and to present my own views on multinational corporations. and their role in the development process. i wrote considered news on the u.n. report which were incorporated in part iii of the report. because i regard this as an extremely important subject which should have the widest possible public discussion. i would like to share with my colleagues my comments on the report. i ask unanimous consent that my remarks be printed in the record.
. we face a world ecoic crisis. only a coordinated and cooperative approach to our problems can help us to avoid ecoic isolation and its dire consequences. i ask unanimous consent that ambassador malmgrens speech be printed in the record.
 of the united states to see. one. that he does  make that agreement unless he believes in utmost good faith that the russians will act in such a way as to enable him to comply with his agreement with us. and. second. that they will continue to do so. or that whatever he does with them will be susceptible of being cut off if they do . read within that context. what the senator has said is perfectly proper. the press asked us. "what happens if the russians choose to reject the trade agreement." then we go back to square one. the fight we have been waging for some years  under the united nations human rights convention. which the russians are a party to.
. adela. the latin american investment company. recently celebrated its 10th anniversary of successful participation in latin american ecoies. at a time when multinational corporations are under sharp consideration at home and abroad. adela offers a unique example of a foreign investment means that has both prospered and won the real backing of latin americans. adelas success is in large measure a result of its becoming closely identified with latin america. it has become "latinized" and this process has been made possible by its policy of taking only miity positions. and recycling its investments when the particular business gets on its feet and becomes prosperous. adela is certainly  the only model for investment in developing countries. but in a time of rising ecoic nationalism it is a model worth following on a worldwide scale. it was in that spirit that i proposed in october the development of a global adela. that would cover also companies  operating in africa and asia to provide new investment on a worldwide scale. adela is a particularly useful instrument for absorbing significant amounts of oil revenues for productive investment in developing countries. efforts are  underway to achieve a global adela. adelas success was recently discussed in an article in the new york times by h. j. maidenberg. i ask unanimous consent that the article be printed in the record.
and to urge those who go into that area in the coming few weeks that we will have in recess to have this in the back of their minds. with a view toward focusing the attention of the senate. which i am confident will have some recommendations from the foreign relations committee. on what could be a handle on this very trying and very dangerous situation in the middle east. or could. on the other hand. be an exacerbating factor. as we see from the dreadful performance of the united nations inviting a confessed terrorist to address it. i lay that before the senate because it is stated in the report of the committee. i thank the senator.
i thank my colleagues very much. i assume. because i heard the request. and i think it was a brilliant performance. the senator will have to make it clear as to how these breakdown times for amendments are to fit into the global time on different days for debate. but i am sure he will do that.
. i ask unanimous consent that an address by the hoable henry a. kissinger. secretary of state. before the seventh special session of the united nations general assembly. september 1. 1975. be printed in the record.
what senator gpr3fnn said is absolutely right. may i point out that we have civilians  with the united nations observer forces. it would apply to them as well. so there is hing that this resolution makes or unmakes in that regard.
. i have devoted my life. really. as a legislator to the united nations. i was the sponsor of the united nations loan bill. i literally handcarried it through the house of representatives. way back in 1949. when we loaned $65 million so its headquarters could be established in this country. i am devoted to it. and i do  say we should pull out of it or anybody should pull out of it. we should fight it through. but i think. as strong a friend as it has in this country. in any high place. it is my duty to speak out and to urge that this organization be  destroyed in fact as well as in spirit. but call a halt to this vicious brand of name calling to which i have referred. which brings back echoes of goebbelslike propaganda and nazitype propaganda of the 1930s. this resolution was adopted on october 17 in the third committee at the instigation of a number of the arab countries and by the soviet union and generally the communist bloc. which in this case. again. i say most regretfully. included the peoples republic of china. also it is sad to relate that earlier this year at the international womens year in mexico city a similar resolution was rammed through. again by a similar militant coalition of arab. radical and communist states. in my judgment. these resolutions should succeed only in holding up to ridicule their sponsors in the eyes of the worlds people. certainly the cynical effrontery of this latest resolution can only serve further to undermine the credibility of the united nations itself. our representative at the united nations. len garment. who was at the white house until fairly recently. spoke in the most eloquent terms in this one sentence: this resolution explicitly encourages the racism kn as antisemitism even as it would have us believe that its words would lead to the elimination of racism. so. i believe that all americans would share the moral loathing of this hypocritical resolution. and our representative. quite properly. characterized it as obscene. we are dealing here with a defensive doctrine of a people who have been the victims of the most unremitting racial discrimination in history. culminating in a holocaust equal to any of attila the hun or of the worst killers mankind has ever kn. and to sully the aspirations of the jewish survivors of the holocaust for a relatively safe haven. which has found expression in their urge toward a jewish national home in palestine called zionism. is really a terribly bad chapter in the life of man and an even sadder chapter in the life of the united nations. i ask unanimous consent that the text of my prepared remarks appear in the record at this point.
. the reason for my speaking is only to call attention to this resolution which i think has. unfortunately. had much too little attention and should have a great deal more. i believe it is a very interesting and a very important way to deal with a very subtle proposition and a very trying proposition. that is. that many businessmen claim that they simply can do business except in conformance with "local conditions" and yet these local conditions are absolutely unacceptable to us as a nation and as a people on moral grounds. the parallel is rather interesting with the work of the committee of eminent persons on which i serve. the committee of 20 appointed by the united nations for the purpose of dealing with this very problem and comparable problems of multinational corporations. we came to a conclusion. and. indeed. there is a continuing commission which is functioning in that regard right . that only a code of ethical conduct for multinational corporations could solve the problem and maintain some element of morality and of competition among these corporations. half of whom are american. similarly by this giving recognition to a very serious danger to american private enterprise throughout the world. i like very much the approach which is used and i simply wish to add my voice with all others which will be heard by the vote. which i hope will be unanimous. urging immediately the negotiations. as an element of gatt. and any other trade negotiations. to codify this conduct. if we give corporate representatives the ability to point to an obligation which has been undertaken. which makes it impossible to engage in these nefarious practices. it will be of emous helpfulness in gradually seeing them eliminated. if we do . we will simply sterilize great parts of american business in a very unfair way and because of ecoic necessity. because many people who would  dream of engaging in immoral or illegal activities would be stigmatized simply because they are businessmen operating abroad. so i simply add my voice to that of senator ribicoff. senator long. and others who have spoken. pointing out from my own experience in the united nations the absolutely insoluble quality of this dilemma unless it is done by international agreement. i hope that our country will take with the utmost seriousness the points which are made in this resolution
. on december 2. i participated in pacem in terris convocation iv at the sheraton park hotel in washington as a member of the panel on detente. on that day. our distinguished ambassador to the united nations. daniel patrick moynihan. in his own inimitable style delivered a most interesting speech on the ideological implications of detente. there exists even in the united states a wide divergence of opinion on the nexus of issues that generally are subsumed in the term "detente." an imperative for formulating a sound foreign policy must be the articulation of these sentiments in the expectation that out of the form of these differences will emerge the wisest approach to these international relations. in this respect. i believe that ambassador moynihan has presented an incisive and stimulating presentation of the parameters of detente as he sees them. i ask unanimous consent that the address of ambassador moynihan be printed in the record.
 giscard destaing or france on june 18. on the occasion of both visits. the youngest survivor of the holocaust. dr. samuel pisar. a u.s. citizen by special act of congresspublic law 8737. 1961made a brief address. i believe that dr. pisars statement is simple and yet moving. i believe that it is important to keep in mind that there are hundreds of nncx- 2551part 31 lions in other countries that continue to share our fundamental human values and our abhorrence of barbaric and malevolent threats to those basic values. if we needed a reminder we have witnessed it recently at the united nations in the effort to equate zionism with racism. i ask unanimous consent that the statement of dr. pisar at auschwitz be printed in the record for the reading of all senators.
 the flexibility to appoint good people who are  foreign service officers. by establishing this quota system. i oppose it. and i think it is absolutely wrong. and i do  think we ought to take it. with all respect to my colleagues. just because it is offered at a late hour and we do  want to be troubled. i. think this is a very serious thing.
it seems to me to an effort to meet the views of the senator from alabama and those who feel as he does. and i hope very much it may prove to be a way of resolving the situation in which we find ourselves. i think the senator has eliminated one very important provision. which is an implication of any general approval of the secretarys speech at lusaka which. whatever one may think individually. personally i think that was the right course for our country. second. i think the precaution suggested by senator allen is very appropriate. respecting the use of such funds as are provided in accordance with our intention. which is strictly for ecoic aid purposes which stem from an effort to deal with the implications of the united nations resolution on rhodesia.
. this provision is probably subject to a point of order on the ground that it is legislation. we will have a vote on germaneness after considerable debate. as i say. this matter at the moment is held in such delicate balance thht i do  feel it would be a service to carry it on . but i do feel that that level which i have described. to wit." that of the powers of the congress. and the second level. which is also very troubling to me. that is. that these are foreign relations and foreign affairs matters. yet the two committees of each house are excluded from these approvals by the fact that they are confined only to the appropriations committees. on one occasion. senator iye accepted an amendment to include foreign relations and the international affairs *committees but that was very promptly dropped in conference. this provision is  in the house bill. theoretically. it could be amended in conference to include the foreign relations committee and the international affairs committee. i am  encouraged that it will be included. by previous experience. under these very pragmatic questions of principle which i have raised. i would like to ask the manager of the bill the following: will the manager of the bill undertake to advise the foreign relations committee as to any actions which are taken by the appropriations committee of the senate under this particular section. if those actions relate to classified matters. obviously the senate committee on foreign relations has just as much standing respecting secrecy on foreign aid as does the appropiations committee. i address that question to the manager. i also advise him that at a meeting of the foreign relations committee this morning i was instructed by the committee. in the name of the committee. to make that request of the manager of the bill.
. i support the preliminary findings of the committee study which suggests that the united nations system of specialized agencies must develop more effective means for the coordination. budgeting. management. implementation. and the evaluation of projects and activities. i also concur that substantial improvements are needed in the way that the u.s. government formulates and executes our policies and participation in international organizations. while we can generalize about the entire systemand several agencies have already taken steps to make their operations more efficient and effectiveit is my belief that there are important objectives which the united states must and can attain within this system. the complex and frustrating problems of politicalization and duplication in overall development assistance strategy. however. must be effectively dealt with. it is a fact that the exercise of voting power for politican means instead of for the objectives of an international organization could make it untenable for u.s. membershipand that would be as disastrous for the united states as for the u.n.
. my colleague from new york has taken a very fine initiative. very much in character. he was himself a most creditable ambassador to india. and he ks that country very well. and he ks so very well the history of our doctrines of freedom in his professorial life and in his personal and political life. in return. i would like to assure my colleague that. as a member of the committee on foreign relations. i am glad he has had it referred to us. it is something we should do deliberately. i will do my utmost to bring about early but very thoughtful action on so fine an initiative as he has authored.
. on june 18 my distinguished colleague from new york was the guest of ho at the launching of our navys newest nuclear attack submarine. the new york city. quite appropriately. senator moynihan addressed his comments to the law of the sea conference. to which i am one of the senate advisors to the u.s. delegation headed by ambassador elliot richardson. senator moynihan points out the critical importance of this 114 nation effort to arrive at a mutually satisfactory convention and states his concern that a final text acceptable to the united states may prove to be unattainable. i share this concern and hope very much it will  turn out to be the case. this is a most important issue which appears  to be approaching a critical stage. i commend consideration of senator moynihans comments to senators interested in this issue and ask unanimous consent that his speech be printed in the record.
. the nation and the world have lost a great diplomat. a gracious and highly intelligent american. and. for many of us. a dear friend. our hearts go out to evangeline bruce. who has been ambassador bruces partner these many years. the obituary on ambassador bruce tells the story in his case. the facts are themselves a legend. the nation may truly mourn its loss. the obituary from the new york times. tuesday. december 6. 1977: i ask unanimous consent to print the new york times article in the record.
. since 1946 the task of drafting a declaration on the elimination of all forms of intolerance and discrimination based on religion or belief has been before the united nations commission on human rights. the declaration is supported by organizations of all religions and a wide political spectrum of nations. the completion of the drafting of such a declaration would do much to remove the negative steps the united nations has made in recent years respecting the deplorable action to equate zionism with racism. dr. isaac lewin of the agudas israel world organization recently addressed the u.n. commission on human rights concerning the drafting of this declaration. i believe this is an issue that merits the attention of senators. and i ask that dr. lewins statement be printed in the record. the statement follows:
. jim allen was reasonable. when you finally did find a formula. and we did. in respect of some prohibitions which he wished to place against participating in foreign aid by some of the african states. for example. for reasons which were very weighty. when you did find a formula. he was  one to haggle or niggle about it. when the formula appealed to him. he accepted it. when he was with you. he was just as strongly with you and just as effective as when he was against you. and we all k how effective he could be when he was against you and how. as a single and individual senator. he very often carried the power almost to the majority in terms of his kledge of the way things are done here and the rules by which they are done. so. i say of jim allen. a le son of his state. who has had a fine and very distinguished career here. that he fulfilled one of the primary obligations of being a senator: he contributed affirmatively to the total wisdom which we consider to be. when we are lucky egh to have it. our finest aggregate product. his family has every reason. in the midst of the tragedy of his having left them at so relatively young an age. as modern ages go. to derive deep consolation and satisfaction from the appreciation which he developed here. he did  seek it. as a matter of fact. often. he did many things which one would think would repel it. but we are a little over 21 around here and we did appreciate it. i extend my wifes and my profound condolences to his family and to the senate.
at this critical juncture in middle eastern affairs. the worldand especially we in the united stateshave been waiting for a significant signal from both egyptian president sadat and israels prime minister menachem begin. that each was ready to resume. in the name of his government. the stalled peace negotiations. we have heard. so far. hing but public rhetoricindeed some threatsfrom president sadat. but  we do have in hand the israel cgovernments statement of its position and it is for me a disappointment as the israeli governments response is the wrong signal. at the wrong time. and argues with the wrong party. i hope that this is  israels last word on the questions posed to it by the united states. the questions referring to the west bank and the gaza district are: first. could israel say that at the end of 5 years the question of the final status of these territories would be resolved. second. what could israel say about the mechanism by which this question would be resolved. as the mediator seeking to promote a resumption of the negotiations i believe that the united states was correct in its expectation of a more positive reply from israel. the israeli statement leaves up in the air the crucial question of egyptisrael or arabisrael negotiations concerning the permanent status of the west bank and gaza district. negotiations on this issue. which goes to the heart of the arabisrael dispute. can be left this way. i have ed the statement issued by the department of state on june 18. 1978. which refers to "a number of useful discussions with the egyptians" concerning the u.s. request to egypt for its "specific views on how the issues relating to the palestinians. the west bank. and gaza could be dealt with in the negotiations." as much as i feel israel must accommodate to new opportunities. i feel as strongly that egyptian president sadat has been unavailing and occasionally threatening since his historic original peace gesture last december. i am aware also that neither jordan  saudi arabia. the latter a beneficiary of recent u.s. arms support. has lent any public support or commitment to the moderate course of president sadats original initiative. the arab world bears a heavy burden of responsibility for its past history of unreliability and its present intransigence in these negotiations. so far. egypt has  answered the prime questions necessary to be asked of it: first. does president sadat still adhere to the two preconditions for even negotiating with israel. (that is. that israel must agree to complete withdrawal from the west bank and gaza district. and selfdetermination by the palestine arabs there which could include a plo state.) second. do we even k finally whether egypt will come to an agreement with israel on the west bank and gaza district so that the negotiations on sinai may go forward without jordan being present as a negotiating party. the absence of a formal egyptian counterproposal to the peace proposals tabled by prime minister begin at ismailia last december also has been a vital factor contributing to the loss of momentum in egyptianisraeli negotiations following president sadats historic visit to jerusalem in ember 1977. the formulation and presentation to israel of egypts specific views on the question of negotiations respecting the permanent status of the west bank and gaza district. and the role to be played by the palestinians in such negotiations could set the stage for a rethinking by israel of the position contained in the israeli cabinet statement of june 18. the situation requires a positive stance by israel to assist the united states in its role as mediator of the arabisrael negotiations. the possibility of achieving a real peace in the mideast. after 30 years of war. is sufficiently compelling to justify extraordinary efforts by all parties including the united states as mediator. to surmount procedural obstacles and secure the resumption of facetoface egyptisrael negotiations on the substance of the dispute. in line with its acceptance of united nations resolution 242 as the basis of negotiations respecting the west bank and gaza district. i believe that israel faces a real danger  if it fails to come forward with a more precise statement of its views as to the permanent status of the west bank and gaza. the danger is that the united states may well come forward with its own peace plan. as a substitute of united states thinking for israeli thinking on an issue so vital to israel this would be a negative development in terms of israels constant and proper insistence on achieving peace through facetoface arabisrael negotiations. and. being confronted with an american peace plan would raise the whole issue of a dictated u.s. middle east peace plan. time is only on the side of those who seek anarchy or war in the mideast.  peace. and the parties involved are the hope of the world for peace and this needs to be forwarded therefore most actively. what is essential to the security of israel must of course be determined by its government which is responsible to israels people. i speak here today only of what i see to be necessary for the united states to pursue its mediating role. which can be decisive if equipped with the necessary cooperation on the part of israel and on the part of egypt. according to press reports both the israeli cabinet and the israeli knesset were themselves sharply divided on the substance of the israeli cabinets june 18 statement which was preceded by a full month of vigorous debate. it seems clear to me  that it is therefore logical to expect that there will be divisions as to what is contributing properly to the mediation role of the united states among those who support the best in united statesisrael relations in the united states. i consider it the high duty of all friends of middle east peace in the united states  to come forward with their suggestions. ideas. and views as to what will be the most conducive to peace. and. it is my judgment that this requires a fundamental acceptance.  for ritualistic purposes but as the firm basis for negotiations. of the applicability of united nations resolution 242 and 338. the only way to negotiate at this rather late stage is to come forward with measures to implement these basic declarations of policy to which the parties have pledged their formal acceptance.
. much has been written about the pressures that we in the congress are facing to restrict governmental expenditures. recently the senate voted a 5percent cut in our bilateral foreign aid bill. had i been present i would have opposed such a cut. and it is important that we understand the value of foreign assistance. both bilateral and multilateral. to the u.s. ecoy. for we are talking  about philanthropy but about investment in the future growth of our own and the world ecoy. it is only through such growth that we can expect to find markets for the goods of the industrialized countries. i was particularly concerned to hear the view that foreign aid helps to weaken the dollar. rather than weakening the dollar. foreign aid serves to strengthen the dollar through a commitment to greater ecoic growth. the london times recently published an article on the role of the world bank in helping ecoic development. it is an extremely important article because it analyzes the world banks record and discusses the serious implications for the future role of the world bank that could result from restrictions that we in the congress have been putting on our funding for the operations of the ifis. i continue to urge my colleagues to support increased capitalization for the world bank and for the other international financial institutions. the regional banks. and the imf. i commend this article to my colleagues and ask that it be printed in the record.
we are trying to bring about a situation of legitimacy for the government so that either it is unified against the guerrillas or by the conference technique an agreement has been reached. as in namibia. which includes the guerrillas. both the contingencies are fully covered in our amendment. if the present rhodesian government says. "we are willing to negotiate in good faith everything. including the angloamerican plan and the salisbury agreement." and the guerrillas are willing to go to a conference on that basis. fine. then that condition is fully satisfied. if. however. the guerrillas say. " we will  go to a conference. withstanding the agreement of the government." then. etheless. if elections are carried through. and there is majority rule as called for by the internal settlement. and an elected government. under the salisbury agreement is installed in office. then the sanctions are lifted just the same. whether or  there is a conference. really thinking it through it is hard for me to imagine a fairer proposition. i think this is very intelligently drafted. i did  have the sole doing of it. senator case has been working on this for a long time. it is fair because it takes account of all relevant contingencies. the guerrillas can frustrate us. the internal government can frustrate us. really this is selfoperative and sets out what should be the policy of the united states. i do  k whether this is or is  the policy of the united states. i rather suspect it has  been up until . from the declarations of the various officials of our government including andrew young. the ambassador of the united states to the united nations. i felt a "tilt." toward the guerrillas. i would  sponsor this amendment unless i were confidentand i amthat this tilt is corrected by the amendment and that the united states is truly put in the position to be the honest mediator. the honest broker. and that its actions are conditioned upon the factors established in this amendment. one last point: to those who would oppose us i would point out that this is the truly moderate course because we are providing for a lifting of the sanctions. this is something that the most ardent proponents of the opposite side are against. senator clark has made that very clear. he believes that sanctions should only be lifted by the united nations. the fundamental thrust. and the reason why this is an honest compromise. is that we are adopting the proposition that the united states itself should lift the sanctions. as one of the central themes of our amendment. but. that should follow from the fulfillment of two basic conditions
. the issue raised by the parliamentary inquiry will  go unchallenged. it is a very key aspect of the bill because one of the amendments which will be proposed to the bill. we understand. is an amendment respecting appropriations. the position which the managers of the bill will takeat least this manager and. i believe. others. and there are four of us who are managing the bill because it comes out of two committeesis that this represents a change of assets. the united states simply buys an asset in the international monetary fund in the way of a subscription. and it does  represent an appropriation of money of the united states. if. as. and when the u.s. subscription is called on. other than the actual making of the contract. which is authorized by this statute. then there may be the need for an appropriation. but until such time occurs there is need for an appropriation. if what is desirable is that we shall say that in the text. to wit. that if. as. and when money is required an appropriation will be sought. and all this does is authorize one. that is aher matter. but if it is claimed that this represents an authorization for appropriation in the usual sense then we will have to challenge that. and it may very well be that we would have to. if the chair persists in that ruling. appeal from the ruling of the chair and leave it to the senate. i would rather hope. with all respect to the parliamentarian and the chair. that this question would have been put to the senate before it was decided on a parliamentary inquiry. but. etheless. that may be the way. because i have every confidence in the parliamentarian. in which the language which we have is construable. so i deeply appreciate. as always. the graciousness. fairness. and accommodation of my colleague. senator mcclure. and we will examine the language very carefully in the time which is allowed to us  with the idea in mind of making sure that as far as we are concerned. even under our construction of the law. this bill qualifies. to wit. that when. as. and if money is needed to back un our subscription there will be an aopriatlon. and the bill will make that clear.
madam president. is it  a fact. that the experience of the imf in regard to jamaica. is a relevant experience to our consideration of this facility. especially in view of the fact that it is admitted by the jamaican authorities that if the loan had  been made. the poor and needy of jamaica would have indeed been much worse off.
 to encourage and support international actions. including ecoic restrictions. to respond to conditions in uganda. would fully subsume instructions to the imf executive director. under this amendment. again. for the same reason that we tabled the principal amendment a minute ago. it is inadvisable to complicate our activities in this particular fund in the way which has been described in this amendment.
president sadats stated refusal last sunday. july 30 to resume facetoface peace talks with israel and his characterization of israels latest suggestions as "negative and backward" is the latest and perhaps the most serious of recent developments which show the deterioration in the mideast peace prospects. i believe that we have reached yet aher crisis and turning point in the negotiating process. even the viability of the continued u.s. mediating role has been called into question. president sadats latest remarks appear to culminate a progressive hardening of his position over recent months. underscore the harsh rhetorical tone he  seems to favor and makes the u.s. mediating role unnecessarily difficult and perhaps impossible for the time being. president sadatj is reported in the press as urging the united states to abandon its mediating role and to assume the status of a "full partner in the negotiations". it seems clear to me that president sadats stratagem is to force the united states to offer its own terms for a peace settlement. in the belief that a u.s. plan would be tilted to the sadat position. and that the united states would then be obliged to pressure israel into adopting those terms. in my judgment. it is  incumbent upon egypt and israel to bear in mind that they are negotiating  only between themselves. but also that they are negotiating in public under close observation by the american people whose goodwill is so important to israel and egypt alike. the people of the united states have a right to expect decorum. dignity. and goodwill in the statements and actions of the two parties  public sarcasm and name calling. if this is lost. president carter could lose also the broad mandate he  enjoys for the u.s. mediating role which is so essential to both sides and to hopes for some peace agreement for which the united states has invested so much of its diplomatic energies and prestige. president sadats statement demanding israels acceptance of his preconditions and his exclusion of any compromise on the issues of "arab land" sovereignty seem to transform "negotiations" into "capitulation" for israel. this is true for two reasons: first. it seems to me. president sadat equates the west bank and the gaza strip with "arab land" in the sense of the sinai and the golan heights. however. neither gaza  the west bank is egyptian. jordanian. or territory of any other arab country as recognized by international law. both were parts of the british mandate over palestine and of the area approved for partition by the united nations on ember 30. 1947. the population is preponderantly arab. but. for that matter. so at one time was the population of what is  israel. under such reasoning president sadat could still claim that pre1967 israel is also "arab land". if so. he would simply be presenting the mirrorimage of the "judea and samaria" theory of prime minister begin as to the west bank. second. it is well kn that for security reasons some ultimate territorial adjustment is required on irsaels eastern border. and that israel could  accept a hostile. irridentist salient in the gaza strip. even secretary of state rogers plan of 1969 included territorial adjustments for security reasons and. most importantly. united nations resolution 242 balances "withdrawal" with "secure and recognized boundaries". when he was in the united states earlier this year. president sadat reaffirmed his understanding of israels security needs. his present assertion appears to be a sharp departure from that position which seemed at the time to open real negotiating possibilities. in my judgment.  sadats hardline position is particularly unfortunate in coming as a reaction to significant new indications of flexibility in israels position. since the last egyptianisraeli meeting at leeds castle. israel has taken a more flexible stand on three important elements of its previous proposals: first. israel has stated its willingness to negotiate the issue of sovereignty of the west bank and gaza at the end of the 5year interim period. previously. in response to questions from the united states. israel had said that it would be willing to negotiate the "status" of those areas after the 5year interim period. second. israel has relaxed its demand that the negotiations must culminate in a full treaty of peace and has indicated that it would be prepared to negotiate for peaceful relations if the search for a final peace treaty proved unachievable at this time. third. israel has  stated its willingness to negotiate the issue of a territorial compromise. this. in my judgment is a major. positive evolution of the israeli position which previously emphasized prime minister begins election campaign promise to assert israeli sovereignty over all of "judea samaria. and gaza district". my discussions with responsible u.s. officials lead me to believe that our state department in fact sees the terms of an egyptianisraeli agreement gradually taking shape. in these circumstances. it is vital that the "moderate" arab governments. which have so conspicuously stood silently on the sidelines to date. to declare themselves in support of the negotiating process and on the side of compromise. i believe that the united states has fully earned the right to put it up to saudi arabia. jordan. and other "moderate" arab states which should  come forward on behalf of peace and the peace process. failure on their part to do sowith the negotiating process  at such a low ebbwill range them on the side opposed to a negotiated solution and the american people will have to draw the appropriate conclusions. i thank the chair and i thank my colleague from california for his courtesy.
