. today i am pleased to introduce a resolution. addressing the issue of the recent slaughter of 1.000 dolphins off the coast of japan. this resolution expresses the concern of the senate regarding the mass killing. and calls for increased participation by the japanese government in international discussions aimed at eliminating further problems of this nature. the task of creating and maintaining a balance between the workings of the global ecosystem. and those of the worlds ecoic systems is one of increasing importance to every nation. the dolphin slaughter in the sea of japan off iki island. and its subsequent social and ecoic reverberations provides a striking example of the complicated problems that such a task entails. the hunt on february 23 and 24. 1978. in which the dolphins were lured to shore areas. where they were stabbed to death. was undertaken by japanese fishermen in an effort to reduce the effect which these mammals have on their fish catch. and consequent profits. a similar conflict of interest between the wellbeing of oceangoing mammals. fishery stocks. and man has been encountered by u.s. fishermen. in dealing with this issue. the 95th congress asserted that the destruction of dolphins. however. inadvertent. is inconsistent with prudent resource management. it therefore developed stringent regulations to protect these intelligent mammals. however. by taking this step toward improved maintenance of the ecology. our domestic commercial fleets were placed at a disadvantage to those of japan. with whom they must compete in the u.s. tuna market. as global food requirements increase. the importance of the ocean as a source of high protein will. too. and the trade off between the needs of the ecosystem. and the socioecoic system will become even more bitterly disputed. ultimately. careful maintenance of a balanced marine environment will result in the most profitable harvesting of the oceans resources. in recognition of this fact. the japanese government will conduct research in fiscal year 1978 to develop methods of tracking and chasing dolphins from fishing operations. japan is to be commended for its initiative in this area. and encouraged to join in other international exchanges of information regarding the impact of marine mammals and socioecoic concerns upon each other. in the hope that the killing of dolphins as an ecoic necessity will cease. the resolution that i am introducing similar to h.r. 1065. which .as already been introduced in the ho.-.mz. strongly urges the government of japan to participate in the discussions to be held by the international whaling commissions small cetacean subcommittee in june 1978. further. it encourages japan to take part in an interchange of information concerning the rational use of living marine resources. with the national marine fisheries service. and to participate in the formation of an international cetacean commission. finally. it suggests the adoption of comprehensive marine mammal protection legislation by the japanese government.o
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the * text of a proclamation by mr. michael n. petito. supervisor of the town of oyster bay. declaring tuesday. october 24. 1967. as united nations day.
