. the house amendment to the senate amendment to ii.r. 3075 establishes certain limitations on this authority. the house amenidment does establish a 4 year time limitation on the new authority of the small business administration to cosponsor training activities with profitmaking concerns and requires the sba to take certain actions to ensure that this new authority is  abused to the detriment of small bustness. it is my expectation that during this 4 year test period. the small business administration will be able to maximize the potential opportunities of this new authority and document the benefits realized by small business. i want to thank my colleague from the state of massachusetts. senator tsongas for his leadership on this bill. through his efforts. the purpose of h.r. 3075 has been directed to the prevention of computer crime through education and training. a recent report of the computer crime task force of the american bar association concluded that "there is disturbing and undeniable evidence that the scope and significance of computer crime and its potentially devastating effects. are broad and deep."e
. the house amendment to the senate amendment to ii.r. 3075 establishes certain limitations on this authority. the house amenidment does establish a 4 year time limitation on the new authority of the small business administration to cosponsor training activities with profitmaking concerns and requires the sba to take certain actions to ensure that this new authority is  abused to the detriment of small bustness. it is my expectation that during this 4 year test period. the small business administration will be able to maximize the potential opportunities of this new authority and document the benefits realized by small business. i want to thank my colleague from the state of massachusetts. senator tsongas for his leadership on this bill. through his efforts. the purpose of h.r. 3075 has been directed to the prevention of computer crime through education and training. a recent report of the computer crime task force of the american bar association concluded that "there is disturbing and undeniable evidence that the scope and significance of computer crime and its potentially devastating effects. are broad and deep."e
. i rise in appropriate form of supported emtoday in support of s. 1417. the devel- ployment for individuals with severe opmental disabilities act amend- mental health problems. the commitments of 1987. in am proud to be an tee recognizes that other forms of suporiginal cosponsor of this legislation. port. such as worksite modification. aswhich will reauthorize the develop- sistive techogy or attendant servmental disabilities assistance and bill. ices. may be required for individuals of rights act for 3 years. and continue with severe physical disabilities. the to strengthen the federal mandate for committee clearly recognizes the indiincreasing the independence. produc- vidualized and evolving nature of suptivity. and integration of individuals ported employment as a potential emwith developmental disabilities in our ployment outcome for all individuals nation. with severe physical or mental impairs. 1417 contains numerous provi- ments. or a combination of such imsions to strengthen and refine each of pairments. the programs authorized under the s. 1417 makes numerous amenddevelopmental disabilities act. includ- ments affecting the role and responsiing the basic state grant program. bilities of the state planning councils protection and advocacy systems. uni- under the basic state grant program. verstity affiliated programs. and several amendments are added to projects of national significance. each ensure that state planning councils of these activities has contributed to are able to address the needs of all ir kledge of new developments in dividuals who meet the definition of the disability field. indeed. one of the developmental disability. specifically. important goals of the act has been to the bill requires state planning counkeep federal disability policy current cils to do a policy analysis- to deterwith our expanding kledge regard- mine the extent and scope of services ing how to best assist individuals with available to all people who are develdevelopmental- disabilities help them- opmentally disabled within the state. selves. s. 1417 will continue to this provision was added based on tesstrengthen and refine programs au-- timony indicating that many people. thorized under the act so that such a particularly individuals with a severe goal can be achieved. physical disability but mental disjuly 21. 1.987 ability. are  able to access services. either through state agencies. or. in some cases. through programs and services generated through the developmental disabilities act. the current definition of developmental disability is a functional definition which eliminates categories and is intended to make eligibility for services based on the interaction between a person and his or her environment. rather than on a specific diagtic label. the required policy analysis will include an analysis of eligibility criteria that may. albeit unintentionally. serve to exclude some groups of individuals with disabilities from service. it will also include an analysis of services. techogy or kledge which may be unavailable to assist people with developmental disabilities. the analysis will provide state planning councils the comprehensive information they need to better advocate for all eligible individuals under the act. and. it will provide the accountability necessary to ensure that a full range of support and services is available for all people with developmental disabilities. regardless of their categories label. s. 1417 also clarifies and strengthens the independence of state planning councils to carry out their advocacy role and responsibilities under the act. at present. most councils are unable to administer state grant funds. and must have some other state entity administer these funds. this can create an inherent conflict of interest. when the administration agency does  share the same goals and responsibilities as the state planning council. s. 1417 remedies this situation by creating a mechanism al allow the councils to administer the state grant funds. this determination is made at the govers discretion after consideration of the comments of the general public and the agency members of the state planning council on the ability of the council to serve as an advocate for all people with developmental disabilities. s. 1417 amends part c of the act. relating to protection and advocacy systems. to ensure the accountability of these systems. including requiring the establishment of a grievance procedure. the opportunity for public comment on priorities established. and special attention to miities and other underserved groups. in addition. the authority of the protection and advocacy system is expanded to include the ability to investigate incidents of abuse and neglect where there is probable cause to believe that such incidents have occurred. this change is consistent with the authority provided to protection and advocacy systems by the protection and advocacy for mentally ill individuals act passed last year (public law 99319). further. i share senator hariiins -view that the existing language authorizing protection and advocacy systems to pursue other appropriate remedies. in addition to pursuing legal and administrative remedies. should be interpreted to permit their participation in negotiations between federal and state officials with respect to an investigation conducted. or a civil action initiated or intervened in. by the united states under the civil rights of institutionalized persons act. to the extent that such investigation or action relates to the rights. privileges. or immunities of persons with developmental disabilities. the authority shall also be interpreted to permit review and comment by the appropriate protection and advocacy system on any proposed consent agreement resulting from any such investigation or action. protection and advocacy systems were mandated by congress 10 years ago to alleviate the abuse and neglect to which individuals with disabilities were frequently subjected. these systems served approximately 85.000 people in 1986. and have successfully resolved 97 percent of their cases without resort to litigation. in addition to their advocacy on behalf of specific individuals. many more people with disabilities have benefited through the information and referral services which they provide. indeed. in the 10 years since they were established. protection and advocacy systems have long since proved their benefit to those individuals in need of their service. s. 1417 will enable them to continue their important work. and ensure that the goals of the actindependence. productivity. and integrationare achieved. in part d of the act provides grants to support a national network of university affiliated programs and satellite centers. these programs provide a variety of services. including interdisciplinary training. exemplary services. technical assistance. and information dissemination. s. 1417 directs the secretary to consider expanding this system of university affiliated programs and satellite centers into unserved states. the bill also establishes a new grant program for university affiliated programs and satellite centers for grants to address the needs of people with developmental disabilities in areas of emerging national significance. such as in the areas of early intervention. communitybased services and programs. and programs for the elderly disabled. finally. s. 1417 amends part e of the act to change the title of this section for "special projects" to "projects of national significance." this change reflects the overall movement in the bill away from provision of direct service toward supporting projects which will ultimately benefit all people with developmental disabilities. the bill requires that the secretary consider public comment the setting priorities established for use of funds under this part. in addition. the secretary is authorized to award grants or contracts for  more than three projects to determine the feasibility and desirability of developing a nationwide information and referral system for people with developmental disabilities. the developmental disabilities program is one of the wisest investments this nation makes in human potential. testimony was provided during the hearings that in the first 2 years after the employment priority was added to this act. approximately 87.000 workers with developmental disabilities were employed in private sector jobs. earning approximately $400 million in annual taxable wages. and saving an additional $400 million in public support costs. clearly. the dollars provided for the programs and services under this act are a worthwhile investment. and more than justify the modest increase in the authorization levels provided for in the bill. i urge my colleagues to support the developmental disabilities act amendments of 1987. and i would particularly like to thank senator tom harkin. chairman of the subcommittee on the handicapped. for his able leadership in developing a thoughtful and wellcrafted reauthorization that enjoys strong bipartisan support.
i think the able senator would join me in publicly calling upon nbc. cbs. and abc to produce a television documentary on prisoners of war. it has  been done. at least to our kledge. if we are wrong. certainly the networks will correct us. i agree with the senator from west virginia that the news media has performed a great service in the past on a variety of subjects. i k whenever there is a riot there are always documentaries. i k they try to provide the news equitably and fairly. and that they try to use great pressure of the media to alleviate any horrible conditions within the country and around the world. but i believe that there are more deplorable conditions than the conditions in which these men and their families are required to live. perhaps 1.400 men is  many when one is talking about millions and millions of people. but if ones family were involved. it would  be thought of as a miity problem but rather a great majority problem. in many ways it is worse than death to be a prisoner of war.
in the boxing case the court expressly said that boxing itself was a local transaction. the boxing case came within the purview of the sherman act because the evidence showed that television pictures of the boxing match were shown all over the country. in those cases they made the coverage by the commerce clause depend.  on the boxing.  on the exhibition at the place. but upon what was done in transmitting pictures from one state to aher.
. this is my fourth term. since i have been here i have heard almost exactly this same discussion about the international information and educational program of the united states administered by the department of state. it is always said at appropriation time if it were only being run better it would get more money and more support. but it is  given more support or more money to help it to be run better. it seems to me that the way to resume is to resume. if we are going to make this vital program into the great arm of our foreign policy it needs to be. then every year it can be badgered and cut and well nigh destroyed. in my opinion. this business of dismembering the international broadcasting service.  in new york city. and moving it to washington. the attacks which have been made on the personnel of the voice of america. and the sharp cuts in its appropriations. all this is leading it to its near destruction. certainly one can complain of investigations of personnel under charges of being communist. communistcontrolled. or subversive and such investigations should be vigorously pursued. but there has also been real feeling that this legitimate investigation was from time to time lost in the efforts of investigators to make the information and education program of the state department what some individual thought it ought to be. this is one voicb that is raised in protest and that is advising the congress upon this vital program. and that will continue to be raised in protest. i am inserting in the appendix an inside view by raymond swing of the voice of america. it is unnecessary to agree with all he saysand i do .-to get a feeling of what is going on. the international information and education program is as important as military defense and ecoic defense. for which -we are appropriating billions. these threemilitary. ecoic. and informationare the elements of our security and that of the whole free world. yet here we are constantly arguing about five. ten. or fifteen million dollars for so vital a program to our national security. may i point out that the soviets and their communist satellites are spending upon these very activities. which to them are propaganda.  in the tens of millionsbut in the hundreds of millions. they seem to see its value and i can for the life 6f me understand why we can. let me give you one example of the importance of this activity to all that we are trying to accomplish in the world. here is a letter from franz bluecher. vicechancellor of the german federal republic. addressed to. mr. gordon ewing. who is the deputy administrator of rias. the voice of america and high transmission radio station in west berlin. this station broadcasts -into east berlin. east germany. poland czechoslovakia. hungary. and deep into eastern europe which is run by the soviet. union and communists. this station is entitled to a lot of credit for what took place in the way of the workers uprisings recently in east berlin and east germany. this is what he says. and the letter is dated july 7. 1953. just a few weeks ago: i should also like to take this occasion. my dear mr. ewing. to state that i regard the work you and your colleagues have accomplished over the years for the people of the soviet zone as praiseworthy to a high degree. i k from innumerable reports from the soviet zone the great moral value of riass broadcasts. which offer comfort and information. advice. and warning. in the work done by this station i see an example worth imitating of that germanamerican cooperation which is so bitterly necessary in repelling the deadly peril that threatens us in common. sincerely yours.
. title 18. united states code. section 871. second. communications in interstate commerce. threatening to kidnap or injure any person. title 18. united states code. section 875. that is by mail. telephone. or anything. would the senator say there should  be penal statutes to cover that.
. i invite the attention of senators to the aggressive antidrug campaign being waged by radio station wwrl. which is located in woodside. queens. and is much a part of the black community of more than 2 million in greater new york. wiwrls publicspirited efforts to erase the drug problem from the streets of harlem and other ghetto areas could serve as a model for communities large and small. white and white. throughout the united states. in ember 1969. wwrls advisory committee suggested that drugs were the largest problem facing the black community. the station decided to go all out in making the drug campaign its major public service effort for the calendar year the station has mounted a massive campaign on a daily. roundtheclock basis. designed to work on three aspects of the problem: prevention. aimed at youth. rehabilitation for those already addicted. and. education to convince citizens to turn in narcotics peddlers to the police. the backbone of the campaign is a series of 10.000 spot anncements being heard throughout the year which range from expressions of support by prominent people in all fields. to anncements giving a special police department narcotics bureau telephone number which citizens may call aymously to inform about drug pushers. in addition. wwrl editorializes on a weekly basis on various aspects of the drug scene in greater new york. the stations weekly "tell it like it is" telephone talk show. reported to be very popular during its sunday aftern time slot. features a special segment each week in which drug addicts call aymously and "tell it like it really is." the station is deeply involved in community efforts to help stamp out drug addiction and has participated in rallies in both washington. d.c.. and new york city. an extensive printed advertising campaign was mounted to back up and emphasize the stations dedication to solving this major problem. by . 40.000 "help a junkiebust a pusher" lapel buttons have been distributed. thousands of special kits aimed at preventing addiction among the young have been placed in various schools. and most encouraging of all. the new york city police department reports arrests of suspected pushers made as a direct result of the stations campaign. wwrl deserves every commendation for its work in combating the mammoth problems of drug pushing and abuse. also. i would like to direct the attention of the congress to an article in the june issue of ebony magazine. "blacks declare war on dope." which provides a survey of antidrug programs by the black community in the new york metropolitan area. including that of wwrl.. i ask unanimous consent that the text of three wwrls radio editorials and two of its printed advertisements. as well as the article in ebony magazine. be printed in the record.
