those who argue for the enactment of this bill may say that it involves a relatively unimportant matter in comparison with the great issue of war or peace or other great international issues. but certainly this matter is vital to our great neighbor. canada. in terms of her growth in size and productivity. and the canadians have become very sensitive on that score. furthermore. a potentially big political storm is developing in canada. just think what those in canada who might wish to use this matter as a political issue could do with it there. in fact. i understand that in the political campaign in which mr. diefenbaker was the winner. much emphasis was placed upon relations between canada and the united states. in terms of tariff relationships. investments. and so forth. just think of the storm which could be blown up if. in the teeth of these protests by the canadian government. the congress nevertheless were to put itself into the business of regulating matters which  are within the control of the supreme court of the united states. in order to show how strongly canada feels about this matter. let us consider what canada has said. through her ambassado. . mr. heeney. on april 9. 1959. i read  from a letter addressed by ambassador heeney to the then acting secretary of state. christian herter: because of the importance attached by the united etates and canada to the hoing of interrational undertakings in letter and in spirit. the government of canada views with serious concern any possible impairment of agreements and undertakings relating to thie great lakes basin. furthermore. the alarris created by repeated proposals for diversion which inevitably disturb the people and ndustry of canada are a source of profound. irritation to the relations between our two 2ountries which we can ill afford. i am instructed. therefore. to express the hope of the government of canada that the united itates will view this matter with equal concern and will be able to give satisfactory assurances that unilateral action will  be tlken which would imperil the present regime of the waters in the great lakes basin and the status of the agreements and understandings to which i have referred. please accept. sir. the renewed assurances of my highest consideration.
