the gentleman is correct. i was going to deal with that when i got on the subject of the regulatory aspects. but i think it should be put in the record at this point. and i will read from the prettyman report. specifically the report said: the commission recommends that the functions of the bureau of narcotics relating to regulation of the legitimate importation. exportation. manufacture. sale. and other transfer of narcotics. drugs. and marihuana be transferred from the department of the treasury to the department of hew. narcotic drugs would be regulated under the power to regulate interstate and foreign commerce.  under the tax power. and the importation. production. sale. or other transfer of marihuana would be prohibited except where expressly licensed for legitimate scientific purposes or for the emergency production of hemp. and it also recommended: the commission recommends that a unit be established within the department of health. education. and welfare to determine the safety and efficacy of and to regulate all narcotic and dangerous drugs capable of producing severe psychotoxic effects which can lead to criminal or lawless behavior when abused. this unit would also regulate the legitimate importation. exportation. manufacture. sale and other transfer of narcotic and dangerous drugs. so the gentleman from alabama is absolutely correct. the prettyman report as regards this aspect of regulation is clearly for this being placed in the department of health. education. and welfare. the attorney general in his testimony before the committee. however. urged that control and regulation should be in the department of justice as they are an integral part of the enforcement problem. for myself i have reservations about regulation being in the justice department. and i think there is considerable merit in this being placed in hew. on the other hand. this might involve a fragmentation of bdac or of the contemplated merged entity. to return finally to the question of education. the acting secretary said: it is our firm intention to maintain the departments efforts in both education and scientific investigation. we are already engaged in developing with the attorney general a mechanism which will continue the same effective coordination and operation between hew and the department of justice which  exists between the various agencies within hew. i might add that there is a budget of some $10 million. according to the fiscal year 1968 appropriation. for the national institute of mental health and for the food and drug administration which was allocated to education and research activities in this area. the department of justice has also observed that the reorganization plan will  affect in any way the research and educational programs  conducted by the national institute of mental health. the bureau of medicine. the bureau of science. and the national institutes of health. i think. however. in fairness to the members in considering this matter today that it is clear that insufficient emphasis has been placed on the importance of clearly spelling out where the education and health roles should be placed. the committee report observes that the justice department would  do the following: "plan and carry out intensive and varied target audience programs to prevent drug abuse and to create an attitude of respect for dangerous drugs." finally. i am particularly concerned with the fact that certain regulatory aspects of the drug problem would be moved to the justice department. i am happy. however. to place in the record the secretarys assurance. i think we have to keep in mind on the should be combated by a unified enment and for strong action against organized crime. but equally i think it is very important that we recognize that narcotics and. particularly. dangerous drugs are a medical. a human. and an educational problem involving  enforcement so much as education in many respects including guidance counseling in our schools and colleges. and therefore i think that has to be weighed very carefully.
thank you. . first of all. i would like to voice my support for the soldiers and sailors civil relief act amendments of 1991. this bill will update a law which dates back to i940. and certainly is in critical need of revision and expansion. i will just briefly touch on some of the items. and then i have a couple of questions that i would like to address. this bill would stay the eviction of a family or of a reservist called to active duty if the monthly rent is $1.200 or less. the current limit is $150. this is an updating. i believe we will discover in the questions that that $150 was set way back in 1966. the landlords would be required to get a court order to evict the individual or his or her family. the bill provides for 6 percent interest cap on loans or obligations of reserve members called up to active duty if those obligations were made while the service person was a civilian. it guarantees the immediate reinstatement of private health insurance for military personnel returning to civilian life and guarantees the right of the military reservists to return to civilian jobs after serving on active duty. there is one provision that i am particularly interested in. having talked with many physicians from my state. the problem they face. the very real one. is their liability insurance. liability insurance for doctors in some types of practice can run as high as $10.000 a month. you might think that $120.000 a year is unbelievable. well. it is  impossible. some of them are carrying burdens as high as that. and to continue the protection for past possible liability claims. they have to keep their insurance in force. so what happens. there is way in the world under a service persons salary that they can carry premiums of $10.000 a month. this bill addresses that problem and says that while on active duty. the suspension of those premiums will be in force. that is. there will be a suspension while the individual is on active duty. this bill also requires courts to suspend legal proceedings at the request of a reservist on active duty in the armed forces. and would stay payments such as taxes. premiums. fines. and penalties. those suspensions of payments can be used for a negative credit rating. i would like to ask the distinguished managers of the bill a couple of questions. if i might. the first deals with the point i raised in my remarks earlier. and that is the $150 limit. when was that set.
after all. this is the united states of america. i just do  believe this country would stand still and see 8 million people denied their vital services. such as police protection. fire protection. health and welfare. and the like. i just do  believe it would happen. the president of the united states who has been opposed to guarantee legislation. has said that the people of new york would  be allowed to be injured. that these vital services would be continued. and even under bankruptcy. under the courts. under the referees. the president proposed that we would pass legislation to let the city issue debt certificates. these certificates in my opinion obviously would have had to have been guaranteed by the federal government if anybody was going to buy them. so that new york could just maintain its services. so there is real option. and that is the point that i point out to the senator. what is the option. maybe the senator is saying that bankruptcy is the option. let us  fool with the people. let us  say it is something which it is . bankruptcy may be necessary but it is  going to solve the problem.
 of israel. speaking for the new state. that israel seeks improved conditions of health and education and a higher standard of living for the whole near east. recognizing that she is  part of a region and that her wellbeing is bound up with the wellbeing of that whole region. the government of israel is also to be commended for its enlighted statements regarding its full intention to cooperate to see that the holy placesholy to the three faithchristian. jewish. and moslemin palestine come under international safeguards for care and access. all peoples whether jews or  who have resisted great oppression will realize the stake for them in bringing about the success of israel. and in this spirit americans who have traditionally helped new democracies seeking their way to freedom can lend their strength and resources in aid of this success. for the jewish people in israel it is an opportunity  only to afford a safe haven for the martyred jews of europe. but to show that they k how to build a country and how to do justice to themselves and their neighbors. all hail to tha new state of israel and its people. and may the blessings of liberty be theirs.
. it has been my custom throughout my congressional career to report to my constituents in new york state on each session of congress and on my own activities during the past year. this is my 16th such report. and it is one of the most gratifying. for the year 1964 was a year of historic legislative performance on a number of issues of national concern to which i have been devoted during my terms in the house and senate. the principal achievement. a historic milestone. was enactment of the civil rights act of 1964. the most comprehensive civil rights legislation in history. this triumph was preceded and made possible by aher historic votethe vote to invoke cloture. thus cutting off a senate filibuster for the first time in history on a civil rights bill. justice and bipartisanship determined the issue. and it was the culmination of years of effort. in which i am proud to have played a hardworking role. the votes on cloture and on the civil rights bill represented the senates finest hours. votes could have done more to revive the nations faith in the senate and in the congress. for it was evidence that. at long last. we were prepared to do justice in our nation after decadesold wrongs of racial segregation and discrimination had gone unabatedand that we were master in our own legislative house. among the other major achievements in which i was particularly active during the past year were: a $11.5 billion tax cutthe biggest such tax reduction in historywhich was long overdue to revitalize our domestic ecoy. a federal program of aid to urban mass transit systems. which though modest was the first recognition by a mally ruraloriented congress of the urban mass transportation crisis. an extensive housing bill. an antipoverty program to deal with the appalling discrepancy between our national image of prosperity and the national reality of our poor and underprivileged. creation of a national commission on automation and techogy. to deal with the impact of techogical change upon production and employment. of special satisfaction to me was the enactment of a bill providing for a national council on the arts. a program which i have been sponsoring for the past 16 years. and the establishment of a fire island national seashore. creating new yorks first national park. other important measures enacted were: a mental health facilities act and mental health retardationchild health act. both firsts in a neglected field of federal action. a heretofore stymied national wilderness act. which preserved 35 million acres of federally owned land from commercial use. and measures to strengthen control over pesticides. in all. 23 measures which i sponsored and 24 others which i cosponsored were enacted into law during the 88th congress. an additional 25 measures which i either sponsored or cosponsored were passed by the senate. as were 3 of my "private bills."
. let me say that there is an improvement over the provisio. as it was passed here in the senate. in the sense that 115 percent as an upper limit is better than 110 percent. but the fundamental proposition against which i feel. as a senator from new york. i must protest is the fact that there should be a ceiling.  only a floor. because this defies the concept of a "hold harmless" provision. it is one thing to say we want to phase out the disadvantaged in the shift of population of needy children who are entitled to funds under title i of the esea. and we do  want to impact that too heavily on any educational district. but it is a very different thing to limit the amount which any district will gain by virtue of any shift in that population and which defies the rule which the senator from new hampshire said we should followto wit. that the money should go where the children go. this difficulty is compounded also by the fact that in both the house and senate versions of the laborhew appropriation bill to which this is applicablemind you.  by this conference report. which is only a continuing resolution. but it is inevitable if we take this conference repbrt as isthere is an increase of 20 percent. from $1.5 billion to $1.8 billion. so more money is provided. and with greater unfairness to the districts which have received the impact of the needy children by virtue of population shifts. in addition. it should again be clear that the fact that there is only a "hold harmless" floor insofar as states are concerned is really  very important. the key factor is the local educational agencies where you have a ceiling. and the reason for that is the following: under this distribution of money under title i of the usea. the state total is only the sum of what the localities received. it is hing but a transmission belt. and each locality is impacted separately depending upon its compliance with the criteria. but the state only gets a mi amount of the funds to administer it. the fact that there is limit on what the state gets is a mi matter. the fact that there is a limit on what the local educational agency gets is a very major and very unfair provision of the conference report. one ks better than i the good faith which is involved in the actions of the senator from arkansas and the senator from th dakota and the fact that they have tried to resolve this situation in the best manner in which they can. and to indicate my own good faith. the fact is that my state. as i began by stating. does better than it would have done under the senate version. the point is that if we begin to build on this concept a ceiling guarantee defying the basic criterion of substantive lawwhich is a very sound criterion based upon where the needy children arethen we get into the mischievous field of thwarting the purpose for which the legislation is passed. my position is that the floor is entirely proper in this particular area. i sought 85 percent. the general feeling was for 90 percent. i would  lose any sleep over that if i had to go that route for the ceiling. it was the basic objection to the legislation. for which the money of the united states is being used. that does  go where the children are. therefore. as it is going to be carried over in other legislationand that is already clear from the fact that it is probably going in the laborhew conference report as wellit is my duty to protest against it. i wish to make one other observation. it is eworthy and is a good change that. instead of applying the floor and ceiling for local educational agencies to the 1972 payment. it is  applied to the 1973 entitlement. which is a change for the better. the common deinator is more in line with the factual situation. however. it does seem to me that it also lifts that 115 percent ceiling perhaps a little higher than it ought to be in balance with the floor. and obviously is a strictly pragmatic problem having basic consideration to the funds going into title i of esca. there is more contained in this matter. there are a whole gamut of bills which represent federal aid in this field and in many other fields. including the health fieldably the hillburton actand the major population impacted areas and the major industrial states. we all k that about 50 percent of the population lives in eight states and most of them live in the big cities. and these formulas have been handed down in a way which on the whole. taking them all. are prejudicial to the heavily populated concentrations of the united states. i really feel that it is our dutythose of us in states like mine--to bring out in the most vivid way we can the injustices of these formulas which come from aher day. the day of great ruralization in our country. this concentration of population is in the states which  only pay the bulk of the federal taxes. but underwrite through their local taxationwhich therefore become very highthe demographic shifts which have taken place in our country. this has an ecoic effect upon the population of our states. because the competition between states for business is so keen that the amount of local taxation is a factor as to who gets what particular plant. what particular office. and what particular set of residential people. for all those reasons and because this is rather broad and operates on a broad form. i feel that men and women from states like my own are undertaking this struggle to right the formula situation as it affects the demographic shifts in population. because we must constantly appeal to the sense of justice of our colleagues who can outvote us and generally have. but who etheless. i believe. are susceptible to the demands of reason as well. i have therefore presented this argument and will record my vote in this way.
