. the recommendations we have made today for the conduct of our foreign assistance effort go beyond changes in administration. they. are designed to provide an entirely new dimension in our programs to assist the developing nations. development on the scale necessary if these countries are to become proud and stable members of the international community is principally a job for government of these countries: only government can provide the legal and institutional framework that is essential for the efficient application of techogical and other tools of development. we can. i believe. help these governments develop the capacity to direct and shape development. we must give our attention to two separate spheres. for a society to achieve growth it must. on the one hand. have a government with a highly developed capacity to perform. the government must be able to plan efficiently. to administer effectively. to communicate with the people easily and to engage the participation of the people in the development process. popular participation involves the ability to communicate with government. the capacity to organize and the competency to initiate and follow through on projects through techniques and instruments the people have developed for themselves. the governmental capacity to perform: many of the developing countries have only recently achieved self -government. many others have only recently become aware of the opportunities for advanced ecoic prosperity. it is understandable that they are still reaching for the capacity to effect change. they have experienced difficulties with various combinations of problems including a lack of a sufficient number of competent officials. inadequate kledge of their own geography and resources. rudimentary transportation and communications systems. and traditional political viewpoints and institutions. if the foreignaid program is to be successful. the united states must assist these nations in improving their performance. we should  seek to impose an institutional pattern. but rather to instill respect for a process of government that engages the people in decisionmaking. u.s. foreign aid must never be an instrument of uninvited interference in the domestic affairs of independent countries. the united states has a number of opportunities to influence quite directly the establishment and growth of some of the most fundamental instruments of government. our help is occasionally asked for in the drafting of national constitutions. legislators in the developing countries can learn a great deal from u.s. experience in developing staff and research support for the legislative process. our assistance in helping parliaments establish legislative reference services would be of important practical utility. decentralization of governmental functions and political power may also provide a constructive area for study. formal federalism may  be appropriate for many developing countries. but our experience may be useful in emphasizing that decentralization will  bring benefits in governmental capacity or popular participation unless the people are involved in the government that decentralization brings closer. although the administrators of our foreignaid program have recognized the importance of establishing effective. honest. and competent civil service and public administration. the united states has  given this field sufficient attention in our aid effort. technical assistance in the development of merit systems. examination programs. and inservice training could be extremely useful. this is the kind of thing the republican task force on latin america had in mind last ember when it recommended the establishment of an interamerican civil service academy. one of the most important tests of any governments performance is its ability to maintain law and order. both the armed services and the police have a role here if the civilian government employs these powerful tools with restraint. the training of law enforcement officials in the use of power and restraint would be an appropriate use of foreign aid funds. likewise in the military sphere. assistance in the form of hardware does  contribute directly to the development process. but assistance in the form of training can help transform the military of the developing countries from a feared vehicle of authoritarianism to a popular instrument of progress. here again u.s. experience with the army corps of engineers and the use of the military to enforce civil rights is relevant. the performance of a government will also be reflected in the strength of its mechanisms for channeling popular support. the political party structure need  follow a twoparty pattern. the experience of mexico demonstrates that a single party coalition can be a major instrument of development. in a multiparty system competition between parties for popular support can provide impetus for reform. communication between people and government. and a popular voice in governmental decisions about development. to be sure. many political leaders need greater understanding of the concept that elections involve  only victory. but a mandate from the people for the conduct of policy in their interests. new techniques for the training of leaders and the organization of support must be brought to their attention. much can be done even with simple programs of instruction in how to run a meeting. how to operate a mimeograph machine. and how to raise funds for political action. political participation of the people: it is at the point of governmental mobilization of support and opinion that the problems of governmental capacity and popular participation merge. i think that our experience with development over the past 20 years has demonstrated that sound development depends on the participation of the people. alexis de tocqueville commented more than once on the vitality of u.s. local government and private voluntary associations. of local government he wrote: local assemblies of citizens constitute the strength of free nations. town meetings are to liberty what primary schools are to science. they bring it within reach. they teach men how to use it and how to enjoy it. a nation may establish a system of free government. but without the spirit of municipal institutions. it can have the spirit of liberty. for a variety of reasons. both historic and philosophic. many developing nations have extremely strong central governments. it is difficult for a government that is distant to win the allegiance of the people. yet. even a government that is close must involve the people in its decisions. we can urge a drastic realinement of administrative and political power in the developing countries. but we can make available to them the benefits of u.s. experience with strong local government. we can suggest techniques of developing leadership in the villages and rural areas. we can assist in the development of recruitment programs that will provide the government with a source of personnel to be trained in the techniques of public administration and then set to work among their own people. we should certainly improve our kledge of the attitudes of people toward government. what steps should be taken to increase their belief in their own ability to effect change. how can government encourage and assist in the exercise of popular initiative. these questions may best be answered through the efforts of the private voluntary institutions and associations which contribute to the initiative. achievement and accommodation of change. de tocqueville commented on the range and effectiveness of such groups in the united states: as soon as several of the inhabitants of the united states have taken up an opinion or a feeling which they wish to promote in the world. they look out for mutual assistance. and as soon as they have found one aher out. they combine. from that moment they are longer isolated men. but a power seen from afar. whose actions serve for an example and whose language is listened to. such associations are practically unkn in the developing world. too often the kinds of associations. such as trade unions. which we k as both supporting and opposing participants in the democratic process. may be. in some of the developing countries. an instrument by which the government controls workers. our foreign aid effort should recognize the significance of private groupsin change and development and make an effort to bring to the developing countries the concepts of democratic participation. education. equality and public service that have informed u.s. private groups. the natural groups of societylabor. students. professional people. farmers. women. and so forthmust be encouraged to organize to serve their common purposes. they must be encouraged to recognize and analyze their common interests. and the advantages of joint action and selfdiscipline on behalf of the greater national development purpose. the sensitive teaching of these lessons and responsive understanding of them will contribute to the consciousness of group capacity to shape the future. aside from political parties. one of th( most obvious areas for voluntary association is in laborindustrial labor in the cities and agricultural labor in the rural areas. the communists k this lesson and have been busy. they have perceptively applied the marxist doctrine that the source of revolution was to be found among industrial wage earners to a theory of agrarian revolt. che guevara has written: in underdeveloped america the countryside must be fundamentally the locale of the armed struggle. this was also the burden of the chinese defense ministers statement of last fall on the inevitability of conflict between "the cities of the world" in th america and western europe and "the rural areas of the world" in asia. africa. and latin america. we began too late in this area. but we do k that in a very literal sense the modernizing of a society begins with the work of the labor force. those who work in the development process will be most attuned to its potential and its failure. their participation can be enlisted for the national program. or for those who promise a brighter future. organization is particularly vital and far more difficult in the rural areas. the organization of agricultural workers to initiate. administer. and support agricultural reform and techogical advance is imperative. per capita agricultural production in most of latin america has actually decreased in the past decade. cooperatives and other voluntary associations should be encouraged.  only as desirable vehicles of civic action but as sources of technical education as well. rural development requires. as aid administrator david bell has said.  just better agricultural techniques. but "improvements in marketing and transportation arrangements. in education and health facilities. in better institutions of local government. and of private cooperation." it requires housing. schools. libraries. hospitals. and savings and credit institutions. the development and channeling of initiative on the part of the rural population is a proper area for u.s. support. engaging the american people in foreign aid: in light of the tremendous impetus that has been given to reform by various forms of citizen groups in the united states throughout our history. it is ironic that this should be a missing ingredient in our foreign assistance efforts. the watson committee recently recommended: the role of the government groupsof business enterprises. labor unions. professional societies. and all the restmust be greatly expanded. while the committee had words of praise for aid officials. it pointed out: private organizations are generally capable of greater speed. flexibility and incisiveness than government agencies. in fact. it continued. without restraints of bureaucracy. "private organization can outperform official agencies."  only would a greater involvement of u.s. private groups increase the quality and volume of our foreign aid effort. it would help to create a larger constituency for the foreign aid program here in this country. decentralization of the aid process would involve sustained enthusiasm from the white house and a constant determination at aid to utilize all the private sources of influence in the task of promoting and sustaining a network of voluntary associations in the developing countries. if we believe that the development process will depend on the political effectiveness of those it seeks to serve. we must seek to engage the efforts of the people of the united states in its success. business: the extraordinary responsibility which american business has demonstrated in. its participation in local community affairs has proven to be  only an important key to community improvement but of ecoic benefit to business. the 3.000 u.s. businesses which maintain facilities abroad have increasingly realized that their practices and policies abroad have a direct impact upon the success of american foreign policy. business can build upon this hopeful record of public service by playing a more active role in support of foreign aid. business has. in three important spheres. an opportunity to become an active participant in development. while at the same time demonstrating to the developing world some of the gains that can result from efficient. ecoic. responsible private enterprise. first. u.s. private investment abroad can be increased. it is here that the recommendations of the watson committee are particularly important. and i am presently drafting amendments to foreign aid legislation that will reflect those recommendations. the magnitude of the need for additional capital is reflected in the committees estimate that the gap between the amount of capital available to the developing countries and the amount which they need ranges from $5 to $20 billion annually. increased public attention should also be given to the work of the atlantic community development group for latin americaadelaan association of united states and european government and business leaders who are attempting to encourage private foreign investment in latin america. just 2 weeks ago. britains foreign secretary. michael stewart. indicated that britain was considering ways to increase its capital export to latin america. second. u.s. business abroad can launch a program of management and vocational training in the underdeveloped countries. particularly in latin america. this would have an emous impact upon the capacity of modernizing societies to develop the skills necessary to accommodate growth. the international executive service corps provides one creative channel for such assistance. there are others. such as greater use of u.s. plants for the conduct of aid sponsored vocational and technical education programs. and support for institutions. such as the school of administration and finance in medellin. colombia. which will provide an increasing supply of technical and middlelevel management. the recent recommendations made to the white house conference on international cooperation year are also worthy of study. third. as the watson committee recommended. u.s. business can make available to government foreign aid operations some of its own highly competent personnel on a shortterm basis. this would  only be a significant business contribution to the foreign aid effort. but has potential for improving its administration as well. such an arrangement worked satisfactorily during world war ii and has been tried with outstanding results by gov. james rhodes of ohio. labor: the american labor movement has peer as a private institution devoted to participation in private international affairs. its contribution through the international confederation of free trade unions has been substantial. while there have been criticisms that labors overseas activities have  always been sensitive to internal political situations in the host countries. i think it is clear that the american labor movement has been unique in its willingness to contribute its services and resources in support of the purposes of american foreign aid. american labor will  always be welcome. particularly in latin america. where labor union development has followed the european pattern. there is some feeling that private european efforts are more appropriate. perhaps the most productive contribution that american free labor can make is to help instill the sense of national consciousness and national responsibility that has made labor such an effective force in u.s. ecoic growth. decentralization of the labor effort may be of value too. locals might beneficially be allowed more freedom to cooperate in communitytocommunity and peopletopeople projects organized for a variety of local organizations acting together. farm groups: the american farm bureau federation. the national grange. and the national farmers union fully recognize that the worlds population explosion imposes on american agriculture  just the potential benefit of increased sales. but the responsibility of helping to feed the hungry of the world. it imposes on them also the responsibility to extend the kledge of agricultural productivity and modernization to the developing countries. it is clear that  even the emous productivity of american agriculture will be able to feed a world population that is growing at the current rate. through private programs. extending the technical kledge of american agriculture to the rural areas of the southern half of the globe. american farmers can offer  only technical skills. but the means by which agricultural workers and farmowners can become an effective voice in public policy. groups such as the 4h clubs. with their youth and enthusiasm have a vital role to play and should be encouraged. educational institutions: american colleges and universities have an outstanding record of support for u.s. foreign aid. largely on contract to aid or philanthropic foundations. they have undertaken valuable research projects that have served the foreign aid program well. through exchange programs and the establishment of schools in the developing countries. they have brought skills and kledge. two of the most outstanding efforts are the schools for middlemanagement capabilities operated in peru and central america under contract with aid by stanford university and the harvard business school respectively. management administration. technical skills and teacher training are all so desperately needed that there is danger of doing too much. equally important. however. is expanded teaching of political science. this is a new discipline to many developing countries. but there is growing evidence that the younger generations are eager for the tools of social science to help them shape their future. american colleges and universities must be encouraged to accept every opportunity for bringing to the developing world a greater kledge of political science and organization skills. greater attention should be given to the law schools where the great u.s. tradition of the partnership between law and public policy can serve as a useful example to societies where the study of law is more narrowly conceived. private foundations: the contributions of the ford. rockefeller. carnegie. and other foundations to the development process k equal. the opportunities for such foundations are immense. they are uniquely equipped to provide the kind of financial and technical assistance needed to expand the teaching of political science and to help reshape university curriculums to reflect modern needs. the international development foundation has served as one kind of model for an experiment in creating independent private foundations. it is worth considering whether initial and supporting capital for such an operation could come directly from aid. of course. it would have to be made clear that both the foundations operations were consistent with the u.s. foreign aid program and that its policies and programs were established and implemented privately. national sensitivities in this field in efforts to increase popular participation may be aroused but the ends of development are too important for the means of development to be limited merely by fear of controversy. other voluntary associations: there are a number of other groups in the united states that have given form and shape to our own development as a modern society. it is impossible to think of a single segment of american society that does  have its institutional representation. all of these groups. the league of women voters. the knights of columbus. the american bar association. and the national council of churches. to name just a few. represent the interests of their members. independently. these groups are effective. collectively they have undeniable strength in a democracy. they are a creative and vital force that must be engaged in the foreign aid program. political parties: the most obvious voluntary public associations in the united states are. of course. the two major political parties. their potential in support of foreign aid is immeasurable. it is important that whatever they do they try to do collectively. merely a greater facilitation of contact between u.s. politicians and their counterparts in the developing countries would be extremely beneficial in building an understanding of the developmental process. but more broad and specific programs could be designed. the shortlived institute for political education established in costa rica to teach political skills and public policy kledge to progressive latin american political parties may have provided an important clue as to the most valuable contribution which the republican and democratic parties collectively can make. proposals in this country have been made for a latin american institute for democratic development to aid latin american political parties in the identification and training of new leaders. in education in political science and organization skills. it would be an important and appropriate initiative taken collectively by the two great u.s. political parties to found such an institute. to finance it and to sustain it. a further important role could be served by both parties at the national and local levels if they would take it upon themselves to encourage other private voluntary associations to participate actively in the foreign aid program. the republican and democratic parties  reach into every community in the united states. they have a responsibility to engage themselves and to seek to engage others in support of development in the developing countries. a new role for the states: there are  28 partners of the alliance programs which have enlisted american states. or portions of them. in mutual development efforts with nations or regions of latin america. the purpose of the partners program is  to build roads and bridges. but to build the confidence of the private sector. in the united states and in latin america. in the goals and purposes of the alliance for progress. my own state of massachusetts has a partners program with the department of antioquia. colombia. the goals are modest. but the dividends are great.  only for mutual understanding. but for a new faith in the development process. this program. in my judgment. has been given too little attention and too little support. its potential for increasing the foreign aid constituency here in this country and for providing the high impact support perhaps most needed in many parts of latin america is emous. aher example of successful decentralization of responsibility for foreign aid is the chilecalifornia program of technical cooperation. by which the state of california. under contract with aid. has undertaken to assist the people of chile in the planning and research of development projects. since the program was undertaken in the spring of 1964. eight technical assistance project studies calling for a u.s. contribution of $1.367.000. have been negotiated. the projects cover research. in chile and at california universities. in transportation. agricultural development. education. budgeting. and regional planning. when i visited chile last fail. i was impressed by the enthusiasm and support the program was receiving. historic ties and similar geographic conditions have increased the responsiveness of the chileans to the californiaadministered program. certainly. this pattern can be repeated successfully. one of the reasons for the partners of the alliance program between massachusetts and antioquia was the similarity of our mutual development patterns. the commonwealth of massachusetts has the educational facilities. the business community. the labor movement. and the church. professional. youth and political groups to undertake a broad collective effort to participate in the development of colombia. the states would  be in competition with aid. but would cooperate fully with aid guidelines and coordination. aid should welcome their initiative and the opportunity to engage the people in a direct and beneficial statetostate program that can facilitate the participation in development we believe is so necessary to meaningful ecoic growth. a clearinghouse for private aid efforts: in 1955 the technical assistance information clearinghouse. a private center for the collection and dissemination of information on overseas private development programs. was established and supported under contract by the predecessor of aid. the clearinghouse has served as an information center on the programs and operations of u.s. voluntary agencies. missions. and foundations engaged in technical assistance abroad. it maintains comprehensive files on more than 400 organizations and their technical assistance programs. aid contract information. and related material. this information is available to government and private agencies for their use in planning programs and to individuals and groups seeking channels for using their special skills and resources. this limited concept of a clearinghouse may have been adequate in 1955. it is inadequate today. and if the private sector of the american ecoic and political communities is to be engaged in support of development abroad in a more active way. as has been proposed here. the existing clearinghouse will prove to be obviously insufficient. it is necessary to have this information exist within aid itself. for the coordinationas opposed to directio the multitude of private aid efforts by a multitude of voluntary associations in the united states will require extraordinary emphasis and attention. with over 400 agencies in the private aid field already. with over 3.000 private u.s. business concerns operating with facilities abroad. and with an everincreasing participation of local communities and other voluntary groups. it is essential to establish a clearinghouse and coordinating office that will be able to minimize the duplication of effort and maximize the information available on what efforts are being undertaken and what efforts need assistance. the program to engage the private sector in the development process in the support of foreign aid imposes a new obligation upon aid to provide the administrative framework within which such a vastly expanded program of personnel and communications can be effectively and orderly managed. conclusion: we believe that the recommendations we have made here today will contribute to the strength and effectiveness of our efforts to assist the developing countries. insofar as they reflect a sharp break with the past. we recognize how little we really have learned about the development process. we have learned a good deal about programs and policies that will  work. we have learned a good deal less about those that will. we really do  k to what extent the experience of u.s. voluntary agencies will be transferable to a situation which differs so sharply from our own. we really do  k just what it is that will give people in the rural backwaters of latin america. asia. and africa a sense of their own political effectiveness. but we do k that there is a revolution going on. either we will use our resources in an effort to channel that revolution in a direction that promises freedom. or we will leave it to those for whom freedom has value. if we truly believe that the principles of freedom. liberty. equality. and selfgovernment have relevance for all people in the modern world. we must. as a matter of national interest and moral conscience. move in the direction we have proposed today.
we calculate a difference of $326 million under the committee amount. the amount proposed by the committee is $2.550 million. the amount we propose is $2.224 million. we deeply feel and submit that the $326 million is unnecessary. it simply gives to a group of 20 states an additional sum in terms of their own school population. when we analyze what the states are spending per pupil  and what percentage that is of their income. namely. the income of the people of the stateit indicates that those states are  being strained. therefore. it is hard to understand why it is necessary suddenly to move in with a sum of $81 million. which is what is added on in the committee version of the bill to those 20 states over and above the figure which the senator from kentucky and i have given.
