. it had been my hope that many of my colleagues would have reconsidered their previous vote amputating the model cities and rent supplements funds and  thought through the alternatives to it. the senate had given members of this house a chance to do just that. decent housing for lowincome families is an urgent need in nearly every city in the nation. if business can fill that need. then it logically follows that government will do so. sooner or later. the fact is that the business communitybuilders. bankers. and brokerssupport the rent supplement program. so do mayors. city managers. labor. churches. and other organizations. the program has this widebased support because it represents a working partnership between government and private enterprise. the features of the program are: it is available for new or rehabilitated housing. privately financed. and privately managed. the property stays on the local tax rolls. only the really poor are eligible. income limits are the same as for public housing. but tenants are  required to move if income rises. the supplement is simply reduced or eliminated. therefore  discouraging selfimprovement. it tends to reduce government control over housing construction and management. it stimulates private investment. to date. $500 million in private financing has been triggered by the $32 million of federal funds approved for rent supplement payments. recently. thelife insurance industry comnitted$1 billion to attack the problem of urban slums. most of which will be used in the rent supplement program. in short. the program joins public and private resources in a common attack on developing the housing which lowincome americans in the cities. large and small. so badly need. both local and federal tax burdens will benefit in the long run.
these are  traditional public works programs which need a time lead for preparation. but the programs i am talking about . fortunately. fit in with going concerns. as it were. we have seen some evidence of that in the action we have already taken this week on the housing bill. i might say. in explanation of my own vote on yesterday with reference to va mortgage interest rates. that i feel that process needs to be facilitated by lower interest rates. i express the hope and the expectation that we shall see lower rediscount rates than we have seen. they should have been cut drastically when they were cut. in order to give the necessary lift to the ecoy. i think it needs to be emphasized again that an income tax cut is essentially a oneshot operation. hence. when it is done. the timing is all important. added to additional antirecessional expenditures already contemplated. it could easily give us. if we provided a large incometax cut. a $10 billion deficit in the next fiscal year. it could cancel out all its gains. and more. by inflation. such an income tax cut could  be repeated. in addition. if defense necessities or expenditures for survival became necessary. which was the dominant e only 6 or 8 weeks ago. it would be extremely difficult to raise the rates again. we need more turnaround time. by way of conclusion. in view of our excellent efforts toward stimulating employment. through federal appropriations for all types of construction which can fit in with work already under way. i do  feel at this timeand i emphasize thiswe should run the risk of a "quickie" incometax reduction. i conclude by paying tribute to the stimulation provided by and to the dynamic thinking which the senator from illis has brought about in this situation. i have doubt it will accelerate very materially. matter how the vote on the amendment goes. vigorous action which we must and will take in combating the recession.
