. are a marvelous combination in terms of their longrange effect. they contribute emously to the process of developing common views and attitudes between east and west and to the overall goal of expanding freedom of thought and communication. by cutting off u.s. participation in such programs we remove our most effective weapon in the struggle to expand the free market of ideas.
. i rise in support of extending the life of the renegotiation board. but i would like to say . for the legislative history of this bill and this board. that having looked into its operations to some degree. i think its powers should be increased. at present. the renegotiation board. established in the korean war to review certain government contracts relating mainly to defense matters and to judge any "excessive profits." is virtually powerless to act on thousands of contracts due to a complex system of exemptions. in my judgment. the jurisdiction of the board should be increased to review additional areas where the renegotiation board has estimated that billions of dollars worth of contracts have escaped government scrutiny. specifically. it is estimated that by the renegotiation board that $11 to $13 billion in prime contracts have evaded review due to these loopholes. for instance. there is a section in the law which exempts from scrutiny all contracts for "standard commercial articles." although both the renegotiation board and the administration in 1968 recommended the abolition of this exemption. it was only tightened up by the congress. this broadlanguaged section precludes the review of bulk sales of such articles as tools and computers. but what is important to realize is that it is just as easy to make large profits on commercial articles as it is on strategic weapons. abolishing the exemption could save the government billions of dollars. in addition. there is also a provision in present law which precludes the review of contracts for under $1 million. in my judgment. a small defense contractor is just as likely to make excessive profits as is a large one. a contract of $500.000 can bring in the same proportion of profits. if  a greater proportion. than can a contract of over $1 million. further. the board should be directed to make periodical and thorough spot checks and reviews. and in general should review all contracts where excessive profits may result. because over 50 percent of the defense departments contracts are singlesource contracts. special attention should be directed at these. the house government operations committee. and specifically the subcommittee on government activities. has held hearings on this issue. and may well in its wisdom report out a bill. consistent with the hearing record. corporate profits are certainly justifiable and in addition are an excellent incentive for progress in our free enterprise system. however. excessive profits are clearly  in the public interest. one should be allowed to make excessive profit off the national defense. off the government. and thereby off the taxpayers money.
. why do we have a honey program. let me go back just a minute if i might. the honey program grew out of the difficulties. if you can believe it. of world war il all this took place nearly 50 years ago. during the war. sugar was rationed and honey became a highly sought after sugar substitute. furthermore. the beeswax produced by honey bees was important to use to waterproof ammunition and military equipment. so honey was. therefore. in high demand in the early 1940s. during the war. and honey bee colonies and domestic honey production grew by leaps and bounds. in fact. honey was characterized. if you can believe it. as war essential. however. that is longer true for a variety of reasons. since then. substitutes have been developed for beeswax that are more ecoical and much easier to produce. so the beeswax as war essential argument is gone. america returned to peacetime in 1945 and 1946. and honey prices dropped dramatically. so what should happen but the honeyproducing industry turned to congress for help. the result was the establishment of a honey price support program in the agricultural act of 1949. the overall purpose of the act was to provide ecoic stability in several agricultural crops. it is important to remember what the purpose of the honey price support program was. it was to ensure an adequate supply of honey bees for the purpose of pollinating many fruits. seed. nut. and vegetable crops. that was the rationale. how did the original program work. support for honey was accomplished through the recourse loans to the honey producers. through the u.s. department of agriculture. agriculture stabilization and conservation service. the ascs. loans were provided at any one of 2.800 ascs offices on the basis of the honey that was produced domestically. this is the way the program worked. participants were allowed to borrow an amount at the specified loan rate up to 90 percent of the honey pledged as collateral. the secretary of agriculture was directed to set the loan rate at between 60 and 90 percent of parity. parity. as my colleagues k. is a measure of the purchasing power of commodities today compared to the purchasing power in the early 1900s. the loan rates differed slightly depending upon the quality of the honey but the average had to equal the specified support price. all that is a mass of words. of complexity. this the way it worked. honey was put up as collateral to the commodity credit corporation. there it was put into storage. the honey producer then waited to see when the market would be good for selling the honey. if the market never looked good egh to enable the borrower to repay the loan. the borrower simply forfeited the honey to the ccc. (commodity credit corporation]. and the loan was considered repaid. this is the way the system worked. they put up the honey as collateral for a loan. they could take it out again if the price of honey rose. but the price was set so high by the commodity credit corporation that there was point in redeeming it. in other words. as we can see in this chart. this shows by millions of pounds how the commodity credit corporation was storing up this honey. which was turned in to it. we had 6 million pounds in 1980. then it jumped to 35 million pounds. then it jumped in 1982 to 74 million pounds. this is really a pretty good deal for the honey producers. then in 1983 it went up to 106 million pounds. in 1984. 105 million poundsover 100 million pounds. this stuff was pouring out of the ccc storage area. we see in 1985 forfeitures then began to drop. and i will explain how that worked. do  think this was salvation. yes. it dropped but the cost to the government. on the other hand. in dollar output. increased. i will review this briefly. at the start of the 1980s. as i said. support prices rose above both the domestic and the world honey prices and honey began to be forfeited to the commodity credit corporation for the first time in a decade. it started with a very modest amount. 6 million pounds. the next year it went up sixfold. to 35 million. then it doubled to 74 million. all this occurred in the early 1980s. by 1984. as i pointed out on the chart here. the annual ccc stock of honey had reached an alarming 105.8 million pounds. a pheenal increase since 1980. this represented 98 percent of all honey under loan. people would take it. get a loan. get a nice. handsome loan. see the honey price was  anywhere near that and leave it.
 about the dangers of the war powers "in the hands of others." i think we should constantly examine those powers and their exerciseand check every single abuse we unearth. and. in my judgment. this exercise of power these last 45 days has been a patent abuse. in defiance of congress individually and collectively. in complete indifference to the results visited upon hundreds of thousands of americans in loss of work and wages. in loss of production. in discomfort. in illness. and even in some reported deaths. i hope you will join the 143 of your colleagues tomorrow. if it is in the interest of your constituents to do so. if you will authorize your secretafy to call extension 625. my office is preparing a second. identical telegram. and i shall be glad to add your name. this list of signers to 9 p. m. tonight follows. with a copy of the telegram. at the suggestion of several. i am sending a copy of the record in the morning by special messenger to dr. steelman. to secretary harriman. and to  of the review committee: washington. d. c.. february 24. 1948.
that is the issue. let us  kid ourselves about it or be confused. whatever members choose to do. is there own judgment. but they should realize that this is the decisive question and that it is being decided on the anderson motion. i am very grateful that. withstanding all the sound and fury of yesterday and today. we shall have a clear opportunity to vote yea or nay on this question whenever the majority leader makes his motion to table. that is the decisive vote. that is the vote that ought to go on the records. that is the vote that ought to go in the rule books. that is the vote that should be cited in the arguments. if i have done hing else in my brief discussion this aftern but to point out the fact that this is the decisive vote. i shall be well satisfied by what i have done today. the next question is. what is so important about the proposed change of rule xxii. why is it so vital. an examination of all the efforts which have been made to protect the filibuster will show why it is so vital. in the first place. until some of our colleagues realized that there would have to be some kind of civil rights bill in 1957. the prospect was that the debate would be protracted or difficult. except for the civil rights bill. rule xxii would have been quickly amended. and we would have had a better civil rights bill in 1957. the fact that the threat of a filibuster overhung members of the senate resulted in many compromises. the principal one being the excising. by a relatively close vote. of the socalled part 3 of the civil rights bill. we have  found. much to our national difficulty. that the absence of part 3. which deprives the attorney general of the right to initiate civil proceedings in courts to deal with questions in connection with desegregation of public schools and in other fields. has brought us into great national difficulty. as shown by little rock and by the closing of schools in virginia and in other states. and has created a great situation of tension. because it is hard for moderates in the south to feel other than that they do  have adequate backing. so. therefore. i say we ought to profit by experience. i realize that filibusters have  only prevented civil rights legislation. but they have also thwarted the enactment of all kinds of other legislation. as a mere reading of a list of such proposed legislation will show. successful filibusters were conducted in 18 out of 22 efforts. eighteen is a very large number out of 22. filibusters have succeeded in thwarting legislation dealing with officers of world war i. the colorado river development. the banking act. the british loan. public housing. and other measures. that gives a concept of the fact that we are dealing with the basic climate in which legislation shall be passed. it is a question whether that climate shall be dominated by a section or whether it shall be free of such shackles. that is the fundamental issue which confronts the senate. we have an historic opportunity to decide that issue. and i hope we will  forego that opportunity. . this is an extraconstitutional power which we can tolerate in this day and age. the change which is proposed by the majority leader is  even a sop. it is absolutely meaningless. and is intended to divert us from the fundamental purposes involved. * there are  many members present in the chamber at the moment. however. there are certain human values involved. there are certain things we must express. do we wish to manage our own destiny or . are we going to do meaningless things when we are able to bring about some real change. are we going to do a meaningless thing. which will be put forth as a rule change. when all intelligent men must k that it is meaningless. i hope the senate will  debase its own high character by doing a meaningless thing. it would be much better to table both proposals than to adopt the johnson resolution as an effort to do anything meaningful about the situation. it would be better to do hing than to do something to which senators could  point as being a realistic effort to change rule xxii so as to stop filibusters. that would be worse than hing. and an affront to our own character. i conclude as i began. by emphasizing the importance of the vote on the anderson motion. i emphasize it. this is the payoff in this controversy. the vote on the anderson motion will determine whether the senate can work its will in a meaningful way. if the anderson motion is turned down. the result will be a weak and completely inadequate solution of this whole controversy. this is the first time a senate committeeby a vote of 5 to 4. it is true. but still by a vote of a senate committee. the committee on rules and administrationhas reported a meaningful resolution to change rule xxii. this is the first time that it has been done in conjunction with and immediately followingor relatively immediately followinga vote on the floor of the senate. when we have the benefit of all the hearings. the benefit of all the consideration. and the benefit of the determination of a majority of the committee. if we kick that away at this time. a historic opportunity will be missed to do something which is meaningful. we will miss the opportunity of doing something which will better equip the senate and better equip our country in terms of the danger of complete extinction which faces our nation and the rest of the free world.
i. too. voted in committee. and it was a different vote from the one i cast last year on the very same question. i should like to state the reason i did so in fairness to myself and the committee. especially the senator from pennsylvania . who worried about this problem as much as i did. i felt that such action would be a discrimination against the veteran. we would be cutting out around him and preventing him from having access to the money market. to which he was entitled to have access. there simply is  egh money around for this purpose to supply him with the direct loan. which is all this amounts to. in order to give the veteran who wants it a real opportunity to get a home under the va bill. the market under the va bill had dried up. yet if we put up more dollars. which was what was wanted in order to go forward. that money would be used up. and the source would dry up again. i do  k whether this proposal will work. but we can give it a trial. when we come to some broadscale proposal on interest rates. even if it is 41/2 percent. i will pledge my vote  against a raise. but in this particular detail we would be discriminating against a particular group of people. that. i think. is  fair.
while the peace bond campaign. based in large part on patriotism needed to win the cold war and widespread concern with inflation. will have a vast popular appeal. it is a fact of life that americans are much more sophisticated today regarding investments and return on their money. this is shown by many investment columns and advertisements in the popular press. and by the large number of families participating in mutual and other investment funds. and buying securities. most americans k they can receive 4 percent interest on savings bonds and savings and loan association deposits in many places. deposits which are insured by the government. also most americans k that banks and trust companies are getting 5 and 5% percent on mortgages which are guaranteed by the united states. and on other obligations guaranteed by the united states. other than from a patriotic standpoint. there is very little practical inducement to invest in savings bonds at 3.26 percents. savings bonds and other investments.
. the united states is today engaged in an intense cold war struggle with the soviet union. among the chief areas of contention are the ecoically underdeveloped regions in africa. asia. and latin america. the soviet union. a totalitarian state. can and is throwing all its resources into the struggle to win the loyalties of the populations and leaders of the developing countries on these continents. in order to prevail in this intense competition. the united states must marshal the maximum strength of the private ecoic system as well. since our private enterprise system comprises the heart of our ecoic strength. its full participation in the development of the less developed areas is imperative. otherwise we may be crippled in our efforts to promote freedom throughout the world. because we will be deprived of the use of the principal part of our strength. our foreign policy can succeed without the active and dynamic participation of the private sector of the american ecoy. there are varied ways in which our private enterprise system can fulfill this role. the u.s. businessman and manufacturer needs to take an increasing interest in the possibilities of the developing areas as markets. we need to increase direct private oversea investments. and our great corporations need to provide a constantly available supply of management and technical personnel for longterm oversea development projects. in addition. u.s. private business should cooperate with our government and with foreign governments and enterprises and international investment institutions in largescale development projects. in an article in the wall street journal of july 14. 1961. james n. wallace describes the make up and activities of international basic ecoy corp.. a private u.s. firm established by the rockefeller brothers whose record in venezuela demonstrates how private business can further our foreign policy goals. spread the benefits of u.s. management. capital. and technical kledge. help raise living standards. and at the same time earn profits. this corporation carries on a variety of activities in venezuela and elsewhere. it operates supermarkets and shopping centers. sells fertile eggs to chicken raisers. writes insurance policies. pasteurizes milk. roasts coffee. and soon will be turning out powdered milk. refrigerators. and auto parts. the author suggests that this type of private company is widely applicable and necessary today in the developing areas of the world. i ask unanimous consent that this article be printed in the record.
i so deeply believe that even what we are doing here is still  egh. considering what needs to be done in order to win the cold war decisively. that with a whole group of my associatesand i am proud that the senator from connecticut has been especially helpful. with his banking experience. in working with me in drafting the amendmentwe have drafted an amendment which would-
that is correct. and $140 million in japan. i point out also. as bearing exactly upon that point. that the bill would make exceptions for underdeveloped countries. both latin american and other less developed countries are listed here collectively in round figures for a little over $100 million. so what is left is western europe to the extent of $270 million. and other developed countries to the extent of $17 million. for that we would strike a blow at the credit leadership and banking leadership of the united states from which we might never recover. i believe the proposal is most illadvised and  at all worth what it would cost. as i conceive our role in the senateand the senator from ohio has emphasized itwhen we have some degree of specialization. when we are operating in an area about which we allegedly k something by virtue of a lifetime of training and experience. it is more than a responsibility to lay that fact before the senate. it is a duty. all my adult life. with the exception of the 4 or 5 war years. i have been active in the financial world. king the subject as i do. and seeing what we would do to ourselves in such an illadvised way. it would be the height of irresponsibility if i did  lay the facts before the senate. the senate will then work its will. but senators ought to understand. if any one senator can make them understand. precisely what it is aboutwe would be striking a damaging blow at american financial leadership with real benefit to the united states. it is one of those reckless ideas that someone picked out of the air because he did  k what else to do with it. time and events have passed it by. still the proponents of the bill cling to it because they put it forward and there is hing else to do.
. i send to the desk on behalf of the senator from massachusetts and myself. a bill to amend the war -claims act so as to give profit social welfare. religious. charitable. and educational organizations the same payment priority  given to small business concerns. i ask that the bill be appropriately referred.
. the war claims act provides for the payment of claims of u.s. nationals for certain losses arising out of world war ii. awards are to be paid out of the war. claims fund. since the funds available may  be sufficient to discharge all claims in full. the law provides for certain priorities. and thereafter a pro rata payment distribution scheme. section 213(a) (1) of the act provides: payment in full of awards * * * to any claimant certified to the commission by the small business administration as having been on the date of loss. damage or destruction. a small business concern. within the meaning  set forth in the small business act. as amended. the purpose of this provision. as described in the senate debates. was "to put small business ahead of big business." it was the feeling expressed in the senate that since large corporations have in effect already "been repaid as a result of tax deductions and other businesses they operated" it would be just to  give priority to small businesses "which thus far have  had any concessions whatever in respect to the claims." a number of american agencies organized primarily for social welfare. religious. charitable. or educational purposes have filed claims under the war claims act for the destruction of their properties in europe. these include church groups. bnai brith and others. it is felt that these claimants should  be put in a worse position than small business concerns. the reasons which moved congress to give priority to small businesses are at least equally compelling. if  more so. regarding the claims of profit organizations serving the public interest. such organizations have never been able to recoup their war losses by deductions from u.s. taxes or by offsets against other businesses abroad. their combined claims will probably  equal the $5 million estimated as small business claims when the provision to favor small business was enacted. failure to grant profit agencies at least the same priorities given to small business concerns which are conducted for personal profit would be inequitable. this measure seeks to correct that situation.
. an editorial in the august 15. 1966. ecoic opportunity report. an independent weekly newsletter on ecoic opportunity programs. supports the ecoic opportunity corporation which i have proposed as a privateenterprise addition to the war on poverty. i ask unanimous consent that the editorial be printed in the record as a part of my remarks.
the reason for the request is that we have to deal  only with the overall sums but also with what is being researched into to be sure there is proliferation and to be sure there is an emous market. a market in the multibilliondollar class. for such research. i am satisfied. as i have pointed out. that this is too sensitive and too important in the national interest to change until we really have the basic facts.
the senator ks that i have taken a position very strongly for gun control. i am also the ranking member of the small business committee which is deeply interested in the proliferation of paperwork. let me tell the senator what troubles me.
