perhaps we can resolve this problem. three questions are involved. one is money. that matter the senator from arkansas has covered very well. i think. the second is the fiduciary relationship established when an investment is made by a union organizer. let us say. in a business in which a union employs him and he makes money out of it. the third is where he gets something surreptitiously. he may get a bribe or something else. the senator has covered that. those are our suggestions. it could be said. i believe. that they are all covered by existing law in one place or aher. but i am satisfied that to create a federal statute. such as the senator desires. with respect to money relationship. will still leave the question of the remedy open. the question is. do we want to leave the question of the remedy open to any suit aside from a federal court suit which might lie by reason of diversity of citizenship or any other ground outside the statute. or do we want to have a section of the bill which concerns itself with the right to sue. and to provide in that section a right to the individual member to sue when the union itself does  act. given a decent period of time. i am laying the matter on the table. so that we can discuss it and determine whether it needs to be included in the bill in order to make airtight the question of fiduciary responsibility and the recourse.
. i have today joined as a cosponsor of s. 1872. a bill introduced by senator case of new jersey. to amend the immigration and nationality act so as to provide 30.000 refugee visas to soviet jews wishing to come to this country. similar legislation has been introduced in the house by congressman koch of new york. while it is  expected at this time that such a large number of soviet jews will either receive exit permits from the soviet union or choose to come to this country instead of israel. it is the intention of the sponsors of this bill to remove all doubt and all possible impediments to a fair share coming here. present law limits the number of political refugees who can be admitted from the soviet bloc annually to 10.200. and we want to make it perfectly clear that we can and will admit more as necessary. it should also be pointed out that even in the absence of this legislation. the attorney general has the discretion. under section 212(d) (5) of the act to parole into this country an unlimited number of political refugees. indeed. prior to the passage of the 1965 act which first established quotas for refugees. section 212 (d) (5) was used to admit tens of thousands of refugees particularly hungarians and chinese. since 1965 it has been used to admit large numbers of cubans and czechs. i have doubt that should an emergency arise before this act can be passed. the attorney general would use his power of parole for the benefit of soviet jews. but because i believe that the intention of congress should be made clear and a certain and orderly means of issuing visas provided. i urge passage of this bill. the soviets are denying to their citizens of jewish faith. fundamental religious and cultural rights which are guaranteed them by soviet law itself. therefore. if the soviet union will  permit its jewish citizens to enjoy even these religious and cultural rights guaranteed them by soviet law or those human rights guaranteed by the u.n. charter. human decency demands that they be permitted to go and live elsewhere in freedom. the soviet union should look deeply into its own soul and learn from the experience of the worlds reaction how much it can profit from letting these people go. and it would introduce a e of humanity into its own operations.
