. i e the authors of this amendment and the supporters of it were experienced politicians. i say that word in the most favorable light. these senators have held office in their states and in this body for some years. so they are practical people. they k what can be achieved and what can be achieved. the facts are. i say this to them. that in the united states of america today. as a result of the supreme court decision in 1976. state can control the flow of interstate municipal waste. those are the facts. what we have done in this bill is to provide significant authority to govers and municipalities to control that flow. if these senators in favor of this amendment should prevail in the motion to table. i can guarantee that those major exporting states would filibuster this bill. we would have bill whatsoever. so in their desire for perfection. they are going to end up with zero hing. those are the facts. that was 3 years ago. i have been there. i have been where the authors of the amendment  are. the garbage is still flowing. the argument just made by the senator from rhode island is the pertinent argument. and that is do you want to do something about the flow of garbage interstate with a realistic chance of enacting protection into law. or reserve all authority for the state. and go back to what i originally tried to do. unfortunately. that legislation has never been enacted. i wish it had more chance. more ability to be enacted into law. but it does . i strongly believe we ought to adopt the best we can because. as thesenator from montana has pointed out. we spent 8 days on this.  debating amendments and tabling them. adopting others and accepting others. we spent 3 full days trying to get an agreement. who has been involved with the agreement. the major exporting states. they can survive with this amendment as presented by the distinguished proponents of the amendment. so. therefore. they would filibuster it and we would have hing. so i hope they withdraw the amendment or that we can get on with a time agreement and vote very soon on the motion to table. because if they prevail. we are  going to have any legislation whatsoever.
. the proponents fail to recognize that the 8515 percent formula means that the 85 percent must go according to population. there is discretion. it must be according to population. and population is the only criterion under that formula. under the formula of twothirds to onethird. that gives more flexibility and other criteria than population can be usedthe quality of the present police force. the quality of law enforcement in a municipality or locality. then there is discretion to give to either the state or municipal government. if that is  provided. there will be only 15 percent which is flexible and which can go to municipalities. it does  have to go that far. but only up to 15 percent. i hope my amendment is adopted. i ask for the yeas and nays.
that is the next step in this unusual series of resignations which. as i say. appear as circumstances in the record. first. judge meaney resigned from the court of common pleas and went to the bank as counsel for the liquidator. then judge walker resigned from the court of errors and appeals and went to the court of common pleas. then frank hague. jr.. went to the highest court of the state. the court of errors and appeals. after a short period a vacancy occurred on the federal bench. and judge walker was then inated and appointed to the federal bench. on the same court which we are  discussing. the united states district court for the district of new jersey. judge walkers ination was conlifrmed. and. as has been pointed out by the senator from nevada. protest was made. at that time gover edison was  gover of new jersey. and. as i understand it. protest was brought to the senate. although the circumstances were as i have recited them. after about 1 years service on the federal bench. judge walker. who. the record shows. had rendered excellent service on the bench. resigned from the bench to accept appointment as general counsel for the new jersey bell telephone co. under those circumstances a vacancy again occurred on the federal bench. and a ination was made of a man who i think. without dispute. is mayor hagues candidate. he was  appointed to the federal bench to fill the first vacancy. but is  inated for the federal bench. which makes the fifth link in the chain of circumstances. again i say to the senate that we are  required to consider those circumstances as we would consider them in trying an impeachment. we are  required to determine the intent of the individuals concerned. with the better kledge which people have at close range. we are entitled. however. to recognize that the gover of the state has considered these circumstances as a primary ground for his protest to the senate. along with other grounds. we certainly should take ice of the fact that the people of the state are aroused and that when we confirm a inee to the federal bench and make it the last link in the chain of circumstances to which i have referred. we are contributing to a most dangerous lack of confidence. whether it be justified or unjustified. on the part of that entire district. to say hing of the united states. in the judiciary of the united states. our obligation in sitting in review on this appointment is to see to it that we do  ourselves take a step which would lead to lack of confidence in the courts. in the presentday condition of crisis it is of the utmost importance that the chain be broken. the only way to convince the public at large. particularly the people of new jerseyincluding the gover and those he may representwho are objecting to this appointment. and restore full confidence that the judiciary and the senate are independent. is to appoint to the bench in new jersey someone who is  connected with that series of appointments and changes. it seems to me that the circumstances do  justify selecting from among all the people of new jersey this one man. strongly supported for this appointment. as he is. by mayor hague. it would be a healthy thing for the united states government. and particularly for the senate. under its constitutional obligation at this time. to end the chain at this point. that brings me to the fourth point. which relates to the general circumstances arising out of the connection of mayor hague with the case. and the connection of mayor hague with conditions in general. i do  happen to k mayor hague personally. i may say that in municipal fields his work with juvenile delinquents has been recognized as exceptionally fine. i have examined into his procedure in connection with juvenile delinquency in the city of jersey city. but  into the circumstances connected with his administration in general. he has been mayor of jersey city for 30 years. he has been elected eight times. the events which have taken place clearly indicate that he has ruled that city throughout that period. i do  rely on personal or controversial testimony but on the open records of the united states courts. in 1937 there arose a condition which became common kledge in the united states. it arose from violations of constitutional rights of the people of the united states. in 1937. mayor hague. under an ordinance passed during his administration. attempted to override the rights of freedom of speech in that community in a way which called forth an injunction from the federal courtthe very court we are  discussing. the action of that court was affirmed by the circuit court of appeals. and the legal points were affirmed by the supreme court of the united states. we in the senate should take ice of the fact that in 1937. regardless of all other controversies about the administration of mayor hague. this constitutional issue arose in that court. in order to make that situation clear. i wish to read a few statements from the opinion of the circuit court of appeals in that case. these. i believe. will provide sufficient ice to the senate as to what is involved in confirming this ination. this opinion was rendered in january 1939 by circuit judge. john biggs. of wilmington. del.. and concurred in by circuit judge. albert b. mars. of philadelphia. pa. for such value as it may have. there was a dissenting opinion by circuit judge j. warren davis. of trenton. n. j. before i read from the opinion of judge biggs i wish to read the introductory paragraph to the opinion so as to give a clear statement as to what the case was about. on page 777 of volume 101 of the federal reporter. second series. judge biggs states in the opening paragraph: the question presented by the appeal at bar is whether or  certain fundamental civil liberties safeguarded by the constitution of the united states shall be observed and protected in jersey city or shall there stand abridged. mayor hague is still in office. and  is urging this appointment to the membership on the very court which issued the injunction in this case. upon this issue judge biggs said this at page 781 with regard to the conditions in jersey city under mayor hague in 1937: when members of a police force remove individuals from a picket line. deport them from the territorial limits of a city. or detain them in police custody under guise of arrest and release them without charges and without trial. the police are acting in defiance of due process of law as guaranteed by the fourteenth amendment. when. as in the case at bar. such conduct receives the consent and approbation of those charged with the conduct of city government justice is destroyed. such a condition is abhorrent in a democratic community.
. i merely wish to join with my colleague in the correction with respect to the jurisdiction of the municipal court and with respect to matrimonial cases in the district court. i also wish to point out that this illustrates what i meant when i said earlier that we always run into trouble and danger when we try to do these things with our eyes shut as to what the outermost limits are of what we are trying to approve as legislation.
 of cornell university. the mayor of ithaca. the chief of police of ithaca. members of the ithaca common council. members of the ithaca board of education. members of the ithaca rotary club. the 15 chaplains at cornell university. who represent all the major american religious faiths. and many. many other persons. including many university administration and faculty members. including a el laureate in chemistry. as well as hundreds of housewives. teachers. physicians. students. lawyers. laborers. and businessmen. i ask unanimous consent that their petition be printed in the record. it was handed to me at the fine convocation held at the new senate office building by the several hundred representatives of cornell university and ithaca. n.y.. who came to this city to express the deep feeling of the people of that community in regard to the pending civil rights bill. let me state that the petition has the original signatures of more than 3.000 members of that very distinguished educational community.
the senator is correct. as the supreme court strikes down "freedom of choice" and segregation by zoning ordinances. and so forth. he still persists in his diew this was right.  wrong. i feel if he is a zealot on this subjecti am  trying to assail his convictions. his belief. or his characteri do  have to vote for confirmation.
. i send to the desk for introduction today. and it is being similarly introduced in the other body. a bill relating to the fire island seashore in new york. a federal development of which we are extremely proud. the bill would increase the authorization figure in respect to the fire island seashore by $10 million. and it would give the secretary of the interior the authority to go to the appropriate u.s. district court for injunctive relief against any action covered by the fire island seashore act which is inconsistent with the purposes of the act or which is considered adverse to the protection and development of the national seashore. the $10 million figure is attributable to the estimate of the national park service that it will take $7.15 million to complete acquisitions and condemnations in respect to the seashore. that is an estimate and could. of course. go up on further condemnations. and the power to the secretary to seek injuctive relief is because there is very serious threat to the seashore in respect to certain uses of private property which are part of or contiguous to the seashore. in 1964. the fire island national seashore was established: for the purposes of conserving and preserving for the use of future generations certain relatively unspoiled and undeveloped beaches. dunes. and other natural features within suffolk county new york. which possess high values to the nation as examples of unspoiled areas of great natural beauty in close proximity to large concentrations of urban population..." 16 u.s.c. ยง 459e(a). the seashore. a long narrow stretch of unstable sand reef varying from several hundred yards to a half mile in width. forms a barrier separating the ocean from the bays and protects the bays and the mainland of southern long island from the atlantic ocean. it contains an impressive array of seashore resources of an extremely fragile nature. the ocean beaches were and where  eroded are wide. clean and gently sloping. the dunes were and where  eroded are stabilized by beach grass. bayberry. other vegetation and some low lying pitch pine. on the bay side. wetlands and marshy areas contribute to the ecological resources of the bays which run almost the length of the southern shore of long island. except for facilities at smith point county park and robert moses state park. there are roads. highways or parking lots within the seashore. a factor which imparts a special character to the seashore. access to the seashore is primarily by means of scheduled ferry service and private boats. motor vehicles gain access to the seashore by bridges at smith point county park to the east and robert moses state park to the west. the eastern portion of the seashore is. for the most part. undeveloped and in its natural state. the western portion. however. contains several predominantly summer communities. while inholdings of private property within a public park are  desirable. especially on a resource as fragile as the seashore. a compromise was worked out to reconcile the local interests with the national interest of preserving fire island. the then secretary of the interior stewart l. udall. reported this compromise to the congress: also located in the western half of the island are several small but rather intensively developed communities. under the provisions of the enclosed draft bill these communities. as well as the owners of more scattered improved properties. could retain their present state of development as long as adequate zoning approved by the secretary of the interior is in effect. and the development remains compatible with the purposes of a national seashore. consequently. the act directs the secretary to issue regulations specifying zoning standards with which local zoning ordinances must conform and gives the secretary the right to approve local zoning ordinances16 u.s.c. 459e2. the development of any property  in accordance with approved zoning is subject to condemnation by the secretary. thus. any development taken pursuant to a variance or exception from approved zoning laws. which variance or exception is  approved by the secretary. subjects the property to the power of condemnation of the secretary16 u.s.c. 459e1. pursuant to the act the secretary promulgated regulations--36 c.f.r.. part 28. the regulations establish minimal standards which must be met if private property is to be exempt from condemnation. four local governments have zoning jurisdiction on the seashore. since the passage of the fire island national seashore act in 1964. the secretary has approved only one of those zoning ordinances. that of the town of islip. consequently. the secretary can condemn any development.  only comforming developnent. in any of the three other jurisdictions. during the period of 196573. the local jurisdictions granted at least 320 variances. of these. the superintendent of the seashore received ice of 86 and objected to 65 as  consistent with the purposes of the seashore act. nevertheless.  one piece of property has been condemned for violation of the seashore acts zoning requirements. in 1972. 17 individual property owners on the seashore brought an action against the secretary of the interior. national park service officials and the local governments on behalf of themselves and 12 civic associations on the seashore which have a membership of about 1.500 persons. this action sought to enjoin any further development inconsistent with the act until such time as the secretary prepared. issued. and implemented an environmental impact statement as required by the national environmental policy act (nepa)-42 u.s.c. 4321 et seq. after a hearing on plaintiffs motion for a preliminary injunction to stop any further inimical development on the seashore. the district court found: plaintiffs demonstrate beyond peradventure that the period since 1964 has seen continuing development of the residential use of the portions of fire island  taken in condemnation. and has witnessed the granting of a very large number of variances. it is estimated. on the basis of aerial surveys. that a 32% increase in building has occurred from 1964 through 1973. the affidavits demonstrate that such intensification of use. and the corresponding expansion of commercial uses. in the opinion of eminently qualified experts. has materially increased the ecological effect on the islands limited water resources and has increased the risk if  the actuality of water contamination from septic tank ruf and sea water intrusions. and that for all that appears the burgeoning use of the island may already have resulted in exceeding the ecologically optimum population of the island. and must continue to do so if residential and related commercial development is suffered to continue. withstanding. the court denied the preliminary injunction on the ground that it lacked jurisdiction to do so. this decision was affirmed by the u.s. court of appeals for the second circuit. biderman v. morton. 497 f. 2d 1141 (2d cir. 1974). the circuit court began its opinion by stating: "efforts by environmentalists to preserve our natural habitatin this instance. fire islandcan help but strike a sympathetic chord. indeed. this is particularly true where. as here. this laudable purpose appears frustrated by a federal statutory scheme which. despite its lofty terms. provides a mere chimera of environmental protection . . ." 497 f. 2d at page 1142. the court concluded its opinion by stating: "... in their justifiable frustration. plaintiffs have sought relief from the courts but it is clear that only congress can provide the remedy .... nevertheless. precatory though our words must necessarily be. we can help but urge those with the power and authority to presrve this gem of an island to halt their procrastination and get on with the urgent business of saving this charming and fragile outpost of nature before the encroachments of haphazard development irrevocably despoil it." 497 f. 2d at pages 114849. despite the fact that the seashore act was passed in 1964. master plan to govern development  any environmental impact statement as required by nepa yet exists. a draft master plan was prepared in 1965 but found inadequate. a second draft master plan and draft environmental impact statement was prepared in 1973 in response to the lawsuit but were also recalled as inadequate. a third draft master plan and second draft environmental impact statement has just been prepared and released. they have  yet been approved by the secretary. when and if they are. they will then be the subject of public hearings after which they may or may  become final depending on whether or  they have to be modified. thus. a final master plan and final environmental impact statement are still more than a year away despite the fact that the seashore act was passed in 1964 and nepa in 1970. it is therefore necessary for congress to provide the fire island national seashore with improved environmental protection. such additional protection is of great importance . since final master plan or environmental impact statement is in existence to govern future development. and building could be rushed to completion before implementation of the master plan. wholesale building and development continue on the seashore without regard to the requirements of the. seashore act. for example. a large piece of land kn as tract 2203 was sought to be condemned many years ago by the secretary. over vigorous local opposition this property was revested. and the present owner has filed plans to subdivide and develop the tract. the superintendent of the seashore has opposed this development and recommended that the secretary condemn it. however. the secretary needs additional funds for this purpose and also needs the power to halt the development without the use of the condemnation power. this bill would provide both the funds to condemn this land and the power to enjoin development. giving the secretary the injunctive power to further the purposes of the seashore act is clearly constitutional. there exists a paramount federal interest in the preservation of fire island. this paramount national interest is expressed  only specifically in the fire island national seashore act but also generally in the national environmental policy actnepa. these statutes establish the overriding federal concern with the protection of such an ecologically unique and valuable resource. to carry out this paramount national interest. courts may enjoin the action of private parties or even local governments which are inconsistent with the national interest or prevent its fulfillment. perez v. campbell. 402 u.s. 637 (1971). radio station wow v. johnson. 326 u.s. 120 (1945) . savage v. jones. 225 u.s. 501 (1912). courts have enjoined the actions of private persons which interfere with the paramount national interest as expressed in nepa. silva v. rommey. 473 f. 2d 287 (1st cir. 1973). citizens for clean air. inc. v. corps of engineers. 349 f. supp. 696 (s.d.n.y. 1972). furthermore. it has been specifically held that zoning restrictions can be imposed on private property for esthetic or environmental considerations. berman v. parker. 348 u.s. 26. 33 (1954). city of st. paul v. chicago. st. paul. minn. and omaha rr company. 413 f.2d 762. 767 (8th cir. 1969). the restrictions imposed by the national seashore act. which is  being backed up by injunctive powers. are eminently reasonable. only development which is inconsistent with the seashore act would be subject to injunction. development which conforms to the zoning standards spelled out in the act and regulations would be allowed. recently. the national park service has suggested in the latest draft master plan that the western part of fire island be dropped out of the national seashore to avoid problems of condemnation and presumably to save money. this is  an acceptable way to deal with the protection of a valuable resource such as fire island. if the fire island national seashore is to be preserved as congress intended in 1964. the additional money and powers provided in this bill are a basic minimum to achieve that end. i intend to seek early hearings on this bill and the entire problem. i ask unanimous consent that a copy of an interior department memo containing pertinent information on fire island and its administration and the text of the bill be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
