. while vehemently disagreeing with the court decision. i will nevertheless abide by it. however. i intend to press the cause of confidentiality of an individuals bank records against fishing expeditions. as a cosponsor of the financial privacy act of 1975. i urge the senate banking committee to expeditiously consider this important measure. i commend senator cranston for his leadership in this effort to restrict access of government officials to the records of customers of financial institutions.
. if we fail to enact this eeded reform by the end of this year. t is my firm belief that we will revert o business as usual and future gener.tions will remain unprotected from the iightmare that we knew as watergate. the nightmare will also present itself in the form of reports relative to the cia and other law enforcement and intelligence agencies. i can emphasize the point strongly egh that there are really two parts to the legislative oversight function: that of factfinding and that of action relative to the facts discovered. we have been woefully negligent in the latter duty. everybody wants to move on an investigation in this country. but one wants to legislate and do the dreary work necessary to make sure that these horror shows do  occur again. i can too strongly urge that we act. that we  wait any longer. our business is to protect the american people. to protect their privacy and their individual liberties and rights. that is  something that can wait until march of 1976. it should be done in june of 1975. indeed. it should have been done in june of 1974. the fact is that the law enforcement and intelligence community has way overstepped its bounds. i k. for instance. the interest that people have shown relative to the raising of a russian submarine by the cia. one questions that type of activity as being necessary. everyone tends to overlook the larger issue of the involvement of the cia with our free enterprise system. it is deeply involved with the entire corporate world of the united states of america. that is the type of matter which ought to be of concern to us the senator from tennessee . who was probably the first to report the overstepping of the bounds that had occurred. and who. with me.  believes and has believed for a long time that legislative action is just as important as factfinding.
. i deeply believe this is the way to proceed. only one other question i would like to deal with. and that is the length of time of the statute. we felt by  egh experience had been gained in the operation of the legal services corporation so that we could give it a life which would encourage young lawyers. who work for very little. as senator nelson has just pointed out. to embrace it as an early career with some assurance it will  be in jeopardy every short period of time. as it has been before. so we believe this represents a recognition that the program has come of age and. of course. we control the appropriations every year so that it is by means beyond the control of congress. in addition. this is a program which can engender controversy we all understand thatthey are litigated cases involving the rights of people. and all the more reason for settling. at least. the proposition that people shall have a right to get into court. whatever the court may do with their cases once they are before the body which can do justice. for all of these reasons. we. in the committee on human resources. consider the 5year extension  under the circumstances. and  having had very considerable experience both with the program and the method of its administration. to be the appropriate time and. hence. incorporated that in the bill
