. first i commend the gentleman from new york for the thoughtful tone of his statements. and for his statement that we should  make final judgments or prejudgments . but that there should be very careful analysis of the need to take certain steps and to make recommendations. obviously some are contained in the constitution or in the laws of the state of new york. which quite obviously should be implemented promptly.  only at attica. but also throughout the country and for the prisoners of new york state as well. i commend the gentleman from illis for taking the time in this special order to bring up this special subject. we do need to get certain laws on the books providing for certain standards consonant with the support that is being provided by the federal government. finally. i think all of us are indebted to the gentleman from new york for his service in an extremely difficult task. i am sure we all share the anguish the gentleman went through. and yet i am sure that if there were opportunities for viable communication. he was one of those who made it possible. and the least we can do is promptly to try to carry out that which he and others feel is the result and consequence of the tragedy and to see that it does  happen again. i believe all of us owe him a vote of thanks for his efforts in this regard.
but i want the recoad to show. just so we do  use this as an occasion to continue to mislead the american public. that.  1. anybody is free to pray in the schools of this nation today as an individual. anybody can pray as an individual in the schools of the united states today. but what i have consistently argued against is  whether it is silent or vocal. but whether it is organized. that is thz key word. if government can organize silent prayer. government can organize vocal prayer. and if government can organize the content of vocal prayer. then we are off to the races. so. please. we are  going to get into a debate on this. but i want to make clear that the senators observations art what they always have been. he has led the fight. but i can let it go unchallenged as to what the substance of his comments are. the only point i am trying to make is that i am trying to establish the fact that those of us. the principal drafters of this legislation. have a meticulous concern and care for the sanctity of ones faith and the manifestation of that faith. this legislation in way impedes upon that. what it does do. it does  permit you to use in a frivolous way an association with religion in order to discriminate.  that is it. it does  allow you in a frivolous way to use an association with religion so that you can discriminate against women. so you can discriminate against the handicapped. so you can discriminate against miities arid discriminate against the elderly. that is all it does. and that attaches to each one of us personally. there is hing in this legislation. absolutely hing. which curtails the freedom which we  have under the constitution as americans and king his schedule. that is probably all he has i would also like to use this as an occasion to say that. as you k. i always like an underdog. i always like somebody who has all the odds stacked against him and just comes out there as a winner. i want to give to you my personal congratulations on your achievement of a few days ago.
farbstein. and podell. from pennsylvania. messrs. saylor. dent. and eilberg. from new hampshire. mr. cleveland. from new mexico. mr. walker. and from california. mr. edwards. this amendment. when adopted. will establish a basic right under the constitution to things which we have until  taken for granted. but which are threatened by todays techogy and increased population pressures. and which we are in real danger of losing. we are frank to say that such a provision to the constitution would have been meaningless to those attending the constitutional convention in philadelphia almost 200 years ago. indeed. this amendment would have been altogether unpersuasive 20 years ago. although the handwriting was then visible on the wall. if one cared to look for it. today. such a bill of rights is  only meaningful and persuasiveit is one of the most significant steps that we could take today to provide our children and grandchildren tomorrow with something approaching a sane environment. secretary udalls foreword to the department of interiors recent yearbook. "man: an endangered species." states the problem succinctly and well when he says: we have mastered the arts of animal husbandry. we k the life laws of crops and insects. we k how to plan our agricultural output. in effect. we have enhanced the future of everythingexcept the overall future of the human race. * * * one could contemplate the united states a century from  with equanimity if our growth rates and growth patterns reflected a mature. purposeful national will. arrogant events and the headlong pace of material progress have left us little time to ask what people are for. or to agree on longterm societal aspirations. we have learned neither how to grow.  at what pace. and that is our failing and our future trouble. if we are to establish the secure foundations of an equalopportunity society and master the sensitive arts of building a lifeencouraging environment. then at this moment in history we need to realize that: bigger is  better. slower may be faster. less may well mean more. the resolution that we introduce here today will  solve the problem confronting us. but it will move in that direction. we believe that this will be an important movethat it will focus national attention upon the problem in dramatic fashion. the central thrust of this resolution is to declare. as a matter of constitutional principle. the right of every citizen to an unpolluted environment. to implement this right. the congress is directed to prepare and maintain an inventory of our existing resources. and to provide for their protection. actions which adversely affect these resources must be first subjected to a public hearing on their effects. this somewhat oversimplified summary of the resolution serves to illustrate the scope of concern to which it is directed. it does  and it can give any indication as to the serious nature of that problem. for that information we must look elsewherevirtually anywhere. to breathe. we need a supply of clean airyet we live in a country in which close to 10 million vehicles. supplying more than 50 percent of the pollutants in the air. have real controls built in to inhibit that pollution. to live. we need a supply of drinkable wateryet we tolerate the pollution of lake erie to the extent that it will longer support marine life. and recognize that it is likely to be only the first of many. to stay sane. we need at least occasional freedom from the incessant din of what we choose to call the civilized lifeyet we are willing to live in an environment in which the air compressor. the power mower. the scream and occasional sonic boom from the passing jet are commonplace and longer even the subject of vigorous public protest. vision is perhaps the most highly prized of the sensesyet we litter our parks with disposable bottles. our roadsides with beer cans and billboards. our countryside with abandoned and rusting automobilesall in the name of progress. the miracle is that we tolerate these affronts to our sensibilities without making any serious effort. on a national scale. to estimate what they are costing us. even in dollar figures. the costs of pollution are astroical. or would be if we bothered to add up the total figure. and all of these costs can be assessed by reference to the dollar. what is the value. for example. to america and to mankind of a grand canyon through which the colorado river continues to flow without benefit of our ability to dam and thus to condemn our waterways. what is the value of a clean. clear hudson river. the banks of which are  lined by a sixlane expressway. the waters of which are unspanned by unsightly powerlines and transmission towers. although precise costs can be assigned to these resources. who among us is prepared to assert that they are therefore without value. it is timeit is past timethat we take measure of where we are and where we are going. the resolution which we introduce today provides a firm basis on which we may begin to assess the problem confronting us. it requires a continuing inventory of our natural. scenic. esthetic. and historic resources. and directs the congress to provide for their protection as a matter of national purpose. as an educational exercise aloneboth for the congress and for the american peoplethe existence of this inventory would justify congressional action. as a basis for proper protection of these resources. this inventory would serve an even more valuable purpose. section 3 of the proposed article requires. in essence. that state and federal executive and regulatory agencies must provide adequate public ice and hold public hearings before taking steps which will adversely affect resources held in public ownership. it does  and. in our view. should properly  operate to prohibit those agencies from acting. its only purpose and its only effect is to assure that the public is given an adequate opportunity to discover what actions have been proposed. and to make its views kn to the agency which is contemplating action. i am aware of a temptation to stand before the house for hours. citing chapter and verse on specific instances where. for one reason or aher. our resources have been given less than adequate protection or consideration by persons or agencies pursuing ends which are in themselves entirely legitimate. but the cumulative consequences of which are potentially catastrophic. i will resist that temptation. king that many of my colleagues are as aware of these cases as i. and that this is  the time for that kind of indictment. it .s the place. however. and i hope to be able to stand before this body at a later date. when the amendment which we are introducing today is before it for passage. to cite examples of need for passage of this legislation. and ultimately to vote for its approval. the longer we wait for that date to arrive. the smaller will be the resources that we are still able to protect. the text of the joint resolution follows:
i should like to join with senator fuluright and senator mathns and others who have said that this is really an appeal to unity through clearing the books of anything which might give anybody an idea that they have a legal right beyond the constitution. the constitution presumes a working harmony between the president and congress in many things. certainly in respect of war. i hope very much that we will be able to reach this as regards phasing out of vietnam. several senators addressed the chair.
