. the military conflict between the federal government of nigeria and its eastern region has taken a grave turn. despite u.s. efforts to keep the struggle within the area. the soviet union has  internationalized it. recent press reports indicate that about 20 jet fighter planes of russian or czechoslovakian origin have been delivered to nigeria and are  being assembled. it has been reported that russian pilots and technicians are on their way to nigeria. the secession of the eastern region has  become a matter  merely of concern to the people directly involved. but to the world at large. we have far too much experience in the congo and other countries  to realize the full implications of the soviet involvement. the united states has refused to supply either side in this conflict with arms or personnel. it has likewise refused to issue export licenses to enable either side to buy weapons in the united states on a commercial basis. unfortunately. others have  chosen to follow this course. a problem of significant international dimension has emerged. the military conflict must be resolved quickly. if it is  resolved. the worlds leaders will again find themselves confronted with decisions critical to the peace of the world. the regional development of west africa may be delayed for years to come. the department of state should. in my view. encourage the organization of african unity. or the african states individually to endeavor to bring about discussions between the parties directly concerned. discussions which. hopefully. may lead to peace and stability.
may i go on. if the gentleman will permit me. aher question that has been brought up is that of counterpart. counterpart funds represent internal money in each country participating in eca. counterpart will  buy imported iron ore. imported coal. or imported leather. or machine tools or others of the things which these european nations need for rearmament. but only to such extent as it can be bought by such one country from aher under their trade relations. that is the nature of the counterpart money referred to by the gentleman from ohio . and counterpart funds could  be used to make up a halfbilliondollar deficiency if we cut the bill. we took that into consideration. one further point. you have been told about the increased production in europe. production in europe has increased up to approximately 142 percent of 1938. but that is absolutely essential to europe because of the fact that they have to import their raw materials and much food and raw materials and food have gone up very much in price. so much so. in fact. that despite all this emphasis on increased production. the standards of living of the people today in the western european countries to participate in this program is just about what it was in 1938. and has  improved at allthat is the standard that counts.
i would like to address myself to that. i will say to the gentleman. i must get in this information about strategic trade. and if the gentleman will bear with me. i will cover the subject. first. as to the strategic trade. the facts show that within the last 2 years the shipment of strategic materials behind the iron curtainand this is  weapons but what could be otherwise useful in waramounted to slightly under $15 million. of which 74 percent was in prior commitments. that is. contracts which had already been made. and the president in each case found that the cessation of aid to the country which participated in any such shipment would clearly have been detrimental to the security of the united states. he made a specific finding in each case to that effect. e of the $15 million was munitions or atomicenergy materials. and incidentally. only $98-- thousands or millions. but $98went to communist china. all the rest went to the european soviet bloc. this $15 millionand this brings me to the point which the gentlemen have raisedthis $15 million in strategic materials over a 2year period compared with exports from the entire free world to the soviet bloc in the same 2 years of $2.700.000.000. that. in turn. must be juxtaposed to imports from the soviet bloc in excess of that amount. the figures are. for 1953. estimated exports of $1.575.000.000 to the soviet bloc. including communist china. and an estimate of imports from the bloc of $1.929.000.000. this is the nub of the controversy. if we are to prohibit completely all strategic trade with iron curtain countries. then we have to be prepared to proceed with dispatch with legislation such as my colleague the gentleman from illis referred to. which will tend to integrate the free world and give the countries of the free world the opportunities and the facilities for trading with each other so that they can supplant this trade with the iron curtain countries. and we have to open up new markets and new demand for goods in the free world. if we do . we have to put up that amount of aid. because it is a fact that there has been a tremendous reduction in the volume of export and import business between the 12 free european oeec countries and the european countries behind the iron curtain. it is 2.6 percent west european exports and 2.5 percent of such west european imports compared with 10.2 percent of exports and 11 percent of imports before world war ii. and if we do  want these countries to deal with the soviet bloc in terms of the timber and the grain for which the soviet bloc has been the traditional source of supply of western europe. which has been so very materially cut . as i said a minute ago. then we have to either make it up in aid or we have to do an infinitely better job of integrating the free world in terms of trade. the fact is. the essential determinant today for the trade which we countenance with the iron curtain countries is trade upon which the balance of necessity and convenience and value is in favor of the free world as against the communist world. it is purely a selfish proposition and evaluated in that way on each specific item of trade. i think it is extremely important that the people understand that. one would like better than i to embargo completely all trade with iron curtain countries. i think it would be a tremendously effective weapon to liberate the enslaved peoples behind the iron curtain. but i submit that if we are going to have to face that. we have got to face a bill for several billions in additional foreign aid ourselves which our people will  accept.
i hope the senator. in the course of his important talk. will also develop the situation of textile exports. because the classic problem which assails people in new york. such as myself. is that we have both kinds of business. and that the opportunities for exports today are probably greater than ever. various factors. such as the balance of international payments. and so forth. lead to the need for an export drive. therefore. i think we ought to haveand the senator from rhode island has performed a great amount of work on the subject only a general picture. but also a composite picture. which the rest of us can discuss. from the senators specialized kledge. perhaps as he goes along he might tell us what has happened to textile exports.
to summarize my own position. it is true that the provisions of the conference report as  before us would give to the president the very discretionary authority which we ought to exercise ourselves. the senate should vote down the conference report. there are certain considerations upon the basis of which the president will suspend the operation of the quotas. such considerations include the overriding ecoic interests of the country and the inadequacy of the domestic demand at reasonable prices to meet the situation of production here. what we are doing is providing a structure in the bill which will only lead cattlemen to believe that they have something when in fact they should  have that kind of relief if the president follows these instructions. and therefore they will  adopt other methods to deal with the situation. i am interested in them as american businessmen. the conference report represents legislation which we should  pass. and therefore i shall vote " on the question of agreeing to the conference report. . i shall   ask for a quorum call. i shall make the suggestion. unless some other senator does so. before the vote on the conference report. i want to make one final point. the conference substitute provides in section 2(c) (3 for allocation by the secretary of agriculture of the total quantity of meat to be imported among supplying countries on the basis of the share such countries supplied to the united states during a representative period. as the language  stands. this provision is susceptible of a construction that supplying countries will be able to control how and who shall buy and distribute the beef. veal. and mutton that may be imported into the united states under this bill. representatives of the importers involved expressed deep concern over this provision in the bill as it may result in unnecessary and continuing confusion and uncertainty with disruption or constant threat of disruption of longestablished mal channels of trade. it is my interpretation. however. that section 2(e) of the billdirecting the secretary of agriculture to issue regulations to enforce the billgives the secretary ample authority to issue regulations controlling the administration of the meat import quota.
s actions today indicate that the united states is giving these recommendations sympathetic consideration. with respect to the united states granting preferences to latin american exports to the united states. my own personal feeling is that in line with the ciaps request and the may 1963 gatt ministerial declaration the united states could  call on the industrialized nations of gatt to extend preferential treatment to specified latin american exports. in a statement of may 1963. the ministers of the contracting parties of gatt agreed that in the forthcoming gatt negotiations every effort would be made to reduce barriers to the exports of developing countries and that the more advanced industrialized countries would  expect to receive reciprocity from the developing nations. the united states itself could take the lead by taking such a step. provided that the other gatt nations involved follow suit and that in exchange latin american nations would agree to accelerate the process of latin american ecoic integration in a competitive atmosphere. lowcost. efficient. modern industries. established in regions which offer the best combination of accessibility of markets. resources. and trained manpower and ready to face competition from abroad. are the best assurance that competitive conditions would prevail during this process. in view of the complex ecoic issues involved and in view of its special expertise in this field. i would like to see the whole issue of latin american integration. and u.s. trade policies toward latin america. carefully examined by the joint ecoic committee at the earliest opportunity. this committee. and its subcommittee on interamerican ecoic relationships. of which i am the ranking republican member. has a distinguished record in the field of latin american ecoic affairs. in view of its responsibilities for the nations foreign trade policies. congress should play a full and constructive part in any reconsideration of u.s. trade policies toward latin america.
. i find it particularly impressive that the supporters of an agreement represent a broad spectrum of national interests. they include individual companies with significant domestic production and export interests. such as general electric co. and dow chemical co.. organizations representing similar domestic manufacturers. such as the manufacturing chemists association. the synthetic organic chemical manufacturers association. and the aluminum association. spokesmen for substantial importing interests. such as the national council of american importers and the american institute for imported steel. and organizations representing wide segments of national industry. such as the united states chamber of commerce. the committee for ecoic development. and the committee for a national trade policy. these and many other groupsably the united steel workers of americaand individuals spoke in favor of an international antidumping agreement. . on the other handthose who offered an international agreementwere the same special interests. essentially protectionists. for themselves who have generally opposed the liberal international trade policy which this country has followed for the past several decades. such spokesmen included the cement industry committee for tariff and antidumping. the american iron and steel institute. the cast iron soil pipe institute. and others who have been driven by their fears of foreign competition into an ideology of protectionism rather than into a determination to meet the test of competition. the tic hearings have clearly shown that the proponents of an international antidumping agreement speak for a broad national constituency. while the opponentsvocal and persistent as they may bespeak only for a limited group of special interests with essentially protectionist purposes for their own enterprises. the tic hearings have put the. protectionist sentiment into true perspective. and revealed significant support in the american ecoy as a whole for the negotiation of an international antidumping agreement. exhibit 1
