 of the united states to ask the united nations to request that the u.s.s.r.. first. withdraw all troops from lithuania. estonia. and latvia. second. to return all baltic exiles from siberia. slave labor camps. and prisons. and. finally. to conduct free elections in the baltic countries. in doing so. it is my prayerful hope that it will play some part in fulfilling the objectives of my good americanlithuanian friends who have written me as follows:
. the gentleman from pennsylvania was very helpful in the 1964 foreign aid act. in securing its passage with a provision to employ a little more utilization of these foreign currencies. of course subject to the wishes of the congress and of the committee on appropriations.
. we have a whole new group of people determining what is law. i mean. i hired on in this job to use my judgment. the people sent me here. i did  hire them. they hired me. i am an employee of the people of the state of rhode island. they sent me down here to take some responsibility.  to turn it over to some unkn in some department. i stood up and i said i am against cfcs. i think they are dangerous to what is happening to the global environment. i do  want them. the people in rhode island k i feel that way. so i took a vote. as did the senator from ohio. the senator from utah. and the senator from montana. we all did. we passed that bill. as the senator will recall. it passed something like 87 to 11. or something in that fashion. clearly. in that. we are going to get rid of cfcs. we are  leaving it up to some fellow over in epa to determine whether we are going to get rid of cfcs. we made that decision. indeed. as the senator recalls. it was  just a part of a great big bill. we had specific votes on that very subject. as the senator from montana so clearly remembers. the cfcs were added to the legislation when it came to the floor. we had an upordown vote on it.
i thank the senator from vermont for his gracious remarks. i have tried to deal in my speech with the points which he has made. including those which he has reiterated. but i must say. with all deference and respect. that it appears to me the senator from vermont expresses a point of view which almost seems to come down from mars. because it is outside the context of everything with which we have been living during all these years. to take one practical example. because i think it is very important. let us consider the matter of the willingness to negotiate. what the arab leaders or the arab representatives may have said privately to my colleague from vermont. i do  k. but the fact is that. on the record. for 10 years there has been  the least indication of a willingness to negotiate in any way. senators do  have to take my word for that. i refer to an editorial published in the new york times of june 2. 1956. in the very recent past. in which that authoritative journal commented upon the arab attitude in the united nations security council as follows:  one arab speaker said one word to indicate that he felt the awful responsibility of restoring or maintaining peace in the near east.  one showed the slightest understanding. or desire to understand. the urge that drove so many abused and harassed individuals into the ancient land of palestine. to set up a new commonwealth and labor for a new hope.  one welcomed the kind of peace that might result from accepting israel as a neighbor. each. without exception. seemed to be waiting for the ultimate catastrophe that by wrecking the mediterranean world. and perhaps all the western world. might destroy the tiny state of israel. and so on and so on.  only in this journal. but in almost all the other representative journals of the world. for the last 10 years. how in the face of that. one can say the arabs still want to negotiate. is beyond my understanding. furthermore. . i am being frank about this matter. i am  attempting to pin rosettes on anyone. i respectfully submit that these are the facts. and that we can suddenly say that they are new facts and are  to be considered in connection with the factual record in this situation.
. i am proud to join in the observance marking the 45th anniversary of the independence of the ukraine. which was proclaimed on january 22. 1918. this independence was the culmination of a centuriesold struggle by the ukrainian people to achieve their freedom from moscow. but their victory was short lived. the country was quickly overrun by the bolshevik armies. and once more ukraine became a captive nation. in spite of deportations. imprisonment. religious persecution. labor camps. ruthless executions and other soviet repressive measures. the spirit of the people has  been broken. and the hope of regaining their independence continues to burn brightly in their hearts. the right of the oppressed people of the ukraine to liberty and independence is upheld by the principle of selfdetermination. which the united states has championed. in the fight against communism. this principle of selfdetermination is a potent force and in support of it. the united states is bringing to bear all the resources of diplomacy at its command. i have deep sympathy for the people of the ukraine and will do all i can to bring nearer the day when their hopes for freedom and independence will be fulfilled.
like other members of the senate. i was tied up in the committee in executive session on the minimum wage bill. and voted "nay" against the motion to table. precisely because i would like to k what the amendment is about in greater detail. i haie reason for  voting as the senator from california says he proposes to vote. if we could get some answer to the factual basic question as to whether there is any serious basis for this amendment. those of us who did  have the benefit of hearing the debate have idea. perhaps the distinguished chairman of the committee or the sponsor of the amendment can enlighten us. the senator from california has raised a most serious issue. i have always stood against the idea of a censure role on the part of the congress in the foreign aid bill. we ought to k what is involved. that is the reason for my opposing the motion to table.
that is optional with us. we do  have to go into any of the technical assistance programs involved. but apparently we thought we would get a lot more out of it. otherwise. i assume we would  have gone into it. the figures on that element of the work are marginal. in these international organizations we are bound to run into these situations. it is  a moithic situation. we have to decide what we will do directly and what we will do through the united nations and what we will do through the international labor organization. taking all factors into consideration. but in this instance we have undertaken the commitment and the assessment having been made we intend to repudiate it and i think that is unwise in the interest of our country. and that is what i am arguing.
