. i rise as an original cosponsor of the handicapped transportation amendments of 1987. this legislation is essential in order to overturn regulations promulgated by the department of transportation which are discriminatory against individuals with disabilities. on may 23. 1987 dot issued final regulations to carry out provisions of the urban mass transit act designed to prevent discrimination on the basis of handicap in federally assisted transportation programs. unfortunately. the final regulations issued by the department do discriminate against the disabled. specifically. they exclude persons with mental disabilities from eligibility for special transportation services. the regulations also place an unauthorized cap on state transit operating budgets for services to individuals with disabilities. whether or  those amounts actually result in sufficient. accessible services. congress made it clear discrimination on the basis of handicap is  permissible in federallysupported programs when it enacted section 504 of the rehabilitation act of 1973. section 504 states in part that otherwise qualified handicapped individual in the united states shall be "excluded from participation in. be denied the benefits of. or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving federal financial assistance * * *" this certainly includes public transportation services. yet as recently as february 1986. the report of the national council on the handicapped "toward independence" concluded that the nation is "far short of a truly accessible system" of transportation. further. the council ed. "persons with transportation handicaps have lower incomes than other americans" and "a major impediment to employment for people with disabilities is their inability to reach the job site." at a time when so much more needs to be done to allow disabled individuals the mobility others take for granted. dots regulations serve only to further restrict that mobility. therefore. the bill we introduce today amends the urban mass transportation act to prohibit any limitation as to the types of disabled people served. prohibit the unauthorized capping of amounts which can be spent to comply with discrimination provisions. and provide a private right of action for persons with disabilities to insure appropriate civil rights law enforcement. a nation can afford to discriminate against any of its citizens. least of all a nation founded on the principles of equality of opportunity. accessible transportation is fundamental to ensuring that individuals with disabilities enter the mainstream of american society. through employment and full integration into community life. and every day that the current dot regulations remain in force. we are permitting discrimination to continue. i am proud to be an original cosponsor of this legislation. and urge its prompt passage. disabled individuals have already waited too long.e by mr. durenberger (for himself. mr. chiles. mr. hatfield. mr. boscxwrrz. mr. kerry. mr. moynihan. and mr. simon): sj. res. 116. joint resolution expressing the sense of the congress that federal aid for refugee assistance programs should  be reduced. and for other purposes. to the committee on the judiciary.
. how have we gotten into such a mess that reasonable people. like senator javits. can open their mouths without getting into trouble. the suspicions between the israeli and the united states governments have reached an all time high. so has the concern of the american jewish community.  only about israels future but even about their own status in america. why. one hesitates to venture into a situation like this unless he feels he has something to contribute. i hope i have. it seems to me that a major cause of these difficulties has been the increasing effort of the united states to shape the actual terms of a final settlement in the middle east. contrary to our long standing position and to the dictates of wise statesmanship. we had better drop this approach and start again. that means we leave such matters to the parties directly involved and insist only that negotiations take place between the parties without preconditions of any kind. israel should  be pressed to state what its ultimate positions are. the arab countries should  be pressed to do so either. we should insist only that both of them. without preconditions. get to work on the practical questions that can be discussed and dealt with. shall the borders between israel and the west bank and gaza remain open borders. will thousands of palestinians be permitted to continue to earn their living working in israel but living in the west bank and gaza strip. will israelis be allowed to travel and live on the west bank and if so under what rules. will the border between jordan and the west bank remain open. and if so who will control the border. will israel be permitted to keep a strategic presence in the area. and if so for how long and under what conditions. how will threats of terrorism be controlled and who will have responsibility for it. how will the different groups cooperate and what will be the ground rules. by finding answers to these questions. the larger issues may be far easier to resolve. however the israelis may differ among themselves on details. israeli government is going to make concessions that would prevent it from defending itself so long as hostile forces demand israels extinction. it is futile to demand from israel or from the arabs for that matter immediate solutions to the question of the palestinians. or their ultimate destiny. it does good to proclaim that the united states would  press for a palestinian state on the borders of israel if the practical result of the concessions the united states currently demands of israel could result in hing less. we must neither press israel for concessions she can make without selfdestruction  the arabs for concessions moderate arab can presently make and survive. let us drop the search for ultimates and concentrate on practical issues that can be dealt with .o
i hope that at some time the truth may break through to the russian people themselves. finally. i wish to say that presentation of this matter would be complete without paying tribute to the very great restraint being exercised by israel itself. as counseled by our majority and miity leaders and the president. israeli prime minister eshkols suggestion that the troops on each side of the border be drawn back. and equally. israeli forbearance in  pressing the issue in the strait of tiran. either with reference to an israeli ship or ships going to israel. is most commendable. i hope this israeli statesmanship will be reciprocated and make a contribution to maintaining peace in this area. finally. i hope the nations of the world will  be satisfied only with a settlement of this immediate crisis. but will insist that there must be a settlement of the underlying troubles in the middle east so there can be enduring peace and prosperity for all in that area.
