 of the humane society of the united states. has testified: in general. conditions at the dealers establishments have been found to be positively filthy. with many evidences of neglect in feeding. watering. and control of diseases. humane society officials. veterinarians. law enforcement. officers. and concerned citizens have testified as to the abominable conditions that exist at dealers establishment in all parts of the country. here. too. state laws are woefully inadequate to bring about badly needed reforms. . where convictions have resulted under state and local laws. they have  succeeded in putting the dealers out of business since. in most cases. the maximum fine is $50. in fact. lester w. brown. the baltimore dealer whose "indescribably filthy" junkyard was pictured in life magazine. had previously been "convicted of cruelty to animals in ember 1962" according to humane society testimony. . it is my understanding that the livestock and feed grain subcommittee of the committee on agriculture is holding hearings on this legislation today and tomorrow. as a major supporter of scientific experimentation. the federal government should be a partner in the acquisition of animals used for experimentation through legitimate means. it should  condone the practice of permitting laboratories to use animals acquired from dubious sources and unscrupulous dealers. a sectionbysection analysis of my bill follows: section 1: statement of purpose. section 2: definitions. section 3: makes it unlawful for any research facility to purchase or transport dogs. cats. and other animals in commerce except from a dealer licensed in accordance with this act. section 4: makes it unlawful for a dealer to buy. sell. or transport in commerce dogs. cats. or other animals unless the dealer has obtained a license from the secretary of agriculture in accordance with this act. section 5: (a) provides that the secretary of agriculture shall promulgate standards for the humane care of dogs. cats. and other animals by dealers. humane care is defined as that ordinarily given a household pet and shall include housing. feeding. watering. handling. sanitation. ventilation. shelter and separation by species. sex. and temperament. section 5(b) provides that the secretary shall appoint a panel of lawyers. deans of medical and veterinary schools. and other distinguished citizens to advise him on the promulgation of these standards. section 6: provides that all dogs and cats bought. sold. or transported in commerce shall be identified by a photograph. section 7: requires research facilities and dealers to make and keep for a period of  less than 2 years such records with respect to their purchase. sale. transportation. and handling of dogs. cats. and other animals as the secretary may prescribe. these records will be open to inspection by representatives of the secretary or officers of any legally constituted law enforcement agency. section 8. authorizes the secretary to take appropriate action to encourage the states to adopt such laws and take such actions as will promote the purposes of this act and authorizes the secretary to cooperate with officials of the states in implementing this act. section 9: prohibits dealers from selling or disposing of dogs. cats. or other animals within a period of 5 business days after the acquisition of the animals. law enforcement officials are authorized to assist the owner of any animal who has reason to believe that the animal is in the possession of a dealer. section 10: prohibits sale or purchase of dogs. cats. and other animals by weight or at a public auction. section 11: authorizes and directs the secretary to promulgate such rules and regulations as are necessary to require compliance with the standards for humane care and treatment called for in section 5(a). representatives of the secretary or state law enforcement officers shall make adequate inspections of dealers facilities and shall regularly inspect the transportation of animals by and from dealers to research facilities. section 12: provides that a violation of this action is punishable by imprisonment of  more than 1 year and/or a fine of  more than $5.000. section 13: provides that the failure of an individual to comply with this act shall be deemed a failure to comply on the part of the research facility or dealer by which he is employed as well. section 14: provides that the secretary shall suspend a dealers license temporarily if he has reason to believe that the dealer has violated this act and the license shall be revoked after a hearing has determined that such violation has occurred. licenses of dealers convicted under state laws may also be revoked. section 15: provides that if any section of this act is held invalid. the remaining sections will be in force. section 16: provides that the secretary shall charge fees for dealers licenses in order to finance this act. section 17: provides that the act will take effect 120 days after enactment.
