. have been apprehended five times before under similar circumstances. they are sent home and they are back up here on the next boat. so. what does all this mean. what are we being called upon to do about it. i do  have any visions about ridding the world of heroin. cocaine. marihuana. and other contraband. but i do think that we in congress have the responsibility to bring the individuals who manufacture. possess or distribute illegal drugs for import to the united states. both our citizens and foreign nationals. as far within the grasp of u.s. criminal law as possible. the legislation i have introduced will accomplish a large part of that objective. i am also happy to be a cosponsor of a bill by senator culver which takes other important steps in that direction. my bill has been carefully worked out over the past 6 weeks with officials of the u.s. customs service and with the senate legislative counsel. and i would like to take a moment to outline its provisions.
. on march 12. 1984. the subcommittee on international trade conducted a hearing on a request for authorization of appropriations for the u.s. customs service. during that hearing i questioned commissioner of customs von raab about proposed changes in the treasury department longstanding rules regarding imports into the united states where the importers decline to sell through their domestic subsidiaries but sell directly to large merchandising outletscommonly called "grey market" goods or "parallel imports." the longstanding regulations allow an exception to the general rule based on section 526 of the tariff act of 1930. that general rule provides that articles bearing a recorded trademark may be denied entry into the united states. for over 30 years customs interpretation of this law. and its regulations providing the exception. permitted entry of goods into the united states where the u.s. trademark owner is affiliated with a foreign trademark owner. owns the corresponding foreign trademarks. or has authorized application of its trademark abroad. a change in this longstanding policy would increase substantially the pricls of certain goods to the american consumer. at the time of the subcommittee hearing several court cases. challenging the customss existing regulations. were pending. the customs service agreed to take action until these five suits were concluded. the opinion in one such case. vivitar corporation against the united states.  84100067 u.s. court of international trade. filed january 19. 1984. was rendered at the end of august. and concluded that the custom services longstanding interpretation of the tariff act should  be disturbed because of commercial reliance on this policy and the fact that substantial business had bten based on this interpretation. further. after an exhaustive review and analysis of the legislative history of section 526. the court decided that customs construction of this section is fully consistent with congressional intent. i request that the full opinion of the court of international trade be printed in the record. the opinion follows:
. on march 12. 1984. the subcommittee on international trade conducted a hearing on a request for authorization of appropriations for the u.s. customs service. during that hearing i questioned commissioner of customs von raab about proposed changes in the treasury department longstanding rules regarding imports into the united states where the importers decline to sell through their domestic subsidiaries but sell directly to large merchandising outletscommonly called "grey market" goods or "parallel imports." the longstanding regulations allow an exception to the general rule based on section 526 of the tariff act of 1930. that general rule provides that articles bearing a recorded trademark may be denied entry into the united states. for over 30 years customs interpretation of this law. and its regulations providing the exception. permitted entry of goods into the united states where the u.s. trademark owner is affiliated with a foreign trademark owner. owns the corresponding foreign trademarks. or has authorized application of its trademark abroad. a change in this longstanding policy would increase substantially the pricls of certain goods to the american consumer. at the time of the subcommittee hearing several court cases. challenging the customss existing regulations. were pending. the customs service agreed to take action until these five suits were concluded. the opinion in one such case. vivitar corporation against the united states.  84100067 u.s. court of international trade. filed january 19. 1984. was rendered at the end of august. and concluded that the custom services longstanding interpretation of the tariff act should  be disturbed because of commercial reliance on this policy and the fact that substantial business had bten based on this interpretation. further. after an exhaustive review and analysis of the legislative history of section 526. the court decided that customs construction of this section is fully consistent with congressional intent. i request that the full opinion of the court of international trade be printed in the record. the opinion follows:
well. . i think we really better go back a little way here. and discuss what are the concerns of the congress of the united states. and. indeed. going way back to the framers of the constitution. about states having the arbitrary right to cut off interstate commerce. that was decided when this country was founded. when this country was founded. those who drew the constitution very. very wisely said that one state does  have the ability to shut off commerce coming from aher state. the senator is a thoughtful individual and a student of history. and he well ks that the commerce clause is an integral part of our constitution. and. indeed. this nation would just be a bunch of satraps if we did  have that. instead of being a massive unit. where we all grow. because of the exchange of crops to one state. going across the borders and back. from its machinery and equipment. with tariffs. intercessions whatsoever. tariff trade barriers. this country is going to be the richest in the world. then we come to the very real problem of what about the power to intercept things that might be considered distasteful. namely. trash. and so the supreme court has dealt with this in a very. very careful fashion. the supreme court has said that a state can arbitrarily just decide that they will refuse to accept imports from aher state. they then said that if the congress gives certain powers. then that is possible. and we. in this congress. approach this very carefully. because. as we have pointed out innumerable times in this discussion. 43 states of our states are exporting states of trash. and 42 are importing states. and it is a matter that there can be each tub standing on its own bottom. we can have a situation where each state will say: hing doing. we are neither going to export  import. we are going to keep it within our boundaries. because we believe that would create tremendous additional expenditures and  be a wise way to proceed. so as the senator well ks. the courts have decided thatindeed. in the supreme court case shown to the senator earlier today. it is very clearly pointed out that a gover. within his state. can say at a landfill: you are going to be reduced. it is going to be capped. how much can you take. the only point is that that must apply equally to outofstate trash. as it does to instate trash.
i would read the amendment to my colleagues: at the bottom of page 4. add the following: sec. 3. (a) the congress finds that(1) the government of uganda. under the regime of general idi amin. has committed geide against ugandans. (2) the united states maintains substantial trade with the republic of uganda. and (3) the relationship of the united states with uganda is unique and justifies an exceptional response by the united states to the actions of the government of uganda. (b) it is the sense of the congress that the government of the united states should take steps to disassociate itself from any foreign government which engages in the international crime of geide. (c) withstanding any other provision of law. after date of enactment of this section. corporation. institution. group or individual may import. directly or indirectly. into the united states or its territories or possessions any article grown. produced. or manufactured in uganda until the president determines and certifies to the congress that the government of uganda is longer committing gross violations of human rights. (d) section 4 of the export administration act of 1969 is amended by adding at the end thereof the following: "(m) article material. or supply. including technical data or other information. other than cereal grains and additional food products. subject to the jurisdiction of the united states or exported by any person subject to the jurisdiction of the united states. may be exported to uganda until the president determines and certifies to the congress that the government of uganda is longer committing gross violations of human rights." (e) the congress directs the president to encourage and support international actions. including ecoic restrictions. to respond to conditions in the republic of uganda.
. the american consumer simply can wait that long. we are reaping the unexpected and bitter rewards of past policies designed to protect our domestic sugar producers in times of world surplus. these surpluses longer exist. such international agreements as those taken under the u.s. sugar act which allocated quotas to u.s. sugar importers on a nationbynation basis  are working against the american consumer. they must  be renewed when they expire at the end of next month. we must be able to purchase all the sugar that foreign nations want to sell us. moreover. present tariff schedules that are levied on imported sugar must be eliminated. such tariff fees are eventually passed along to consumers in the form of higher prices. world shortage and its effect on price is understandable. however. the accompanying huge profit being annced by this nations sugar producers make the consumer justifiably skeptical. profits of major sugar companies have increased by as much as 1.500 percent. and yet. they continue to raise prices. i think that the consumer has a right to ask how much more than the increase in world prices he is being asked to pay. for this reason. i have asked the federal trade commission and the justice department to undertake an investigation of the processing. refining. and marketing activities of the major sugar companies of this country to determine if their continuing high profits are justified or should be considered windfall. i would hope that such an investigation could begin forthwith so that we in the congress can determine the need to proceed legislatively at the earliest possible date. the council on wage and price stability begins hearings today on the reasons for this increase in sugar prices. however. these hearings. coming so close to thanksgiving. make it difficult for both bakers and other consumers to participate. nevertheless. i hope the council will be aggressive and resourceful in its investigation. and i look forward to seeing its findings by year end. sugar is basic to many of the foods we eat. with the present levels of food prices already placing an intolerable burden on the budgets of low- and middleincome families. it is imperative that sugar be available to industries and consumers at fair and reasonable prices. it is little comfort to the consumer to say that in a year or two the price of sugar may return to the 20 to 30 centsperpound range. many bakers are being driven out of business by the present cost of sugar. for them. these prices are  simply an inconvenience. they mean a desperate fight for survival. whether it be baker or homemaker. all possible price relief must be sought .
. the trade expansion act of 1962 was heralded as the start of a new era of liberalized world trade policy. yet it has riot prevented protectionist forces from attacking this policy in congress since the act has been in effect. i have fought protectionist legislation. as protectionism only hurts the consumer and weakens the competitiveness and efficiency of our domestic ecoy and that of every other country that participates in this practice. increasing pressures have been brought on congress in recent months to amend the antidumping act in a fashion that would make it so restrictive as to prevent legitimate forms of international competition and to induce foreign countries to retaliate in kind. in my view. the best approach to stop this protectionist spiral is to negotiate an international antidumping agreement during the current gatt trade negotiations. and in a recent speech i gave a full exposition of my reasons in support of such an international agreement. i ask unanimous consent to insert into the record the speech i delivered on this subject before the international trade and customs law committee of the federal bar association. september 9. 1966. at the statler hilton hotel in washington.
congress has an absolute right to change what the tariff commission may be doing under the law. or under the code. at any time it chooses to amend the law. but if it does  choose to amend the law. and if the court sustains the code as being a valid exercise equivalent to regulatory power. then i think the procedure is perfectly proper. i might say to my colleague that he would be at perfect liberty to do sowe do it all the timeto introduce legislation in accordance with the antidumping law to prohibit or to require the particular thing which the commission may be doing as a matter of practice under this code. i may agree with that. i may  agree with the substance. but he has a right to do it. we do it all the time.
