. i have long believed that the congress should provide a code of ethics for its members and employees. and that the public good requires it. accordingly. together with my colleague . i have submitted senate concurrent resolution 5. to establish a joint committee on ethics. which would develop and recommend such a comprehensive code for congressional adoption. and i have introduced s. 281. to make congressional communications with federal regulatory agencies matters of public record. senate concurrent resolution 5 provides an interim code of ethics for the guidance of members and employees during the period prior to the adoption of a comprehensive code. one of its requirementswhich comes from the new york state codeis that members "having a financial interest. direct or indirect. having a value of $10.000 or more. in any activity which is subject to the jurisdiction of a regulatory agency" make a matter of public record the nature of such interest. by filing a statement with the comptroller general. since senate concurrent resolution 5 has  yet been agreed to. the comptroller general does  have authority to receive and maintain such lists. however. in order to demonstrate my concern with the matter. i am  making a statement for the record. as of this date. my holdings of the described nature are as follows: as trustee of a family trust. i have an indirect interest in the following companies or their subsidiaries or affiliates. these are mal investments in publicly owned corporations. with element of control alone or in combination with others: american & foreign securities corp.. cities service corp.. criterion insurance co.. government employees corp.. government employees financial corp.. government employees insurance co.. government employees life insurance co.. sinclair oil & gas co.. south carolina electric & gas co.. southern co.. and transamerica corp. of delaware.
. under the senate code of ethics. i filed on may 15. 1972. with the secretary of the senate a formal "statement of contributions and hoariums." in which i disclosed all substantial contributions or hoariums received by me during the last calendar year. the form is a public document to which the press has access. in addition. i filed under the senate rules a "confidential statement of financial interests." which includes lists of companies in which i have a direct or indirect financial interest. as that statement is filed with the comptroller general under the rules of the senate and is  open to public examination. i hereby publish a list of companies subject to some form of regulation by the federal government--or which i feel may be doing some appreciable business with the federal government--in each of which i have an interest. direct or indirectgenerally in a family trust of which i am trusteeas of this date. in an amount exceeding $5.000. these are mal investments in publicly owned corporations and constitute element of control alone or in combination with others. directly or indirectly: american & foreign securities corp. american telephone and telegraph. american water works. cenco scientific institution. cities service corporation. coastal states gas prod. co. criterion insurance co. first chicago corp. first national city bank of new york. flying tiger corp. government employees financial corp. government employees insurance co. government employees life insurance co. kerr mcgee. marion laboratories. south carolina electric & gas co. southern co. transamerica corp. of delaware. telco marketing services. white shield oil & gas.
