 and the congress went along with a gradual nibbling away of any assistance to those cities. which i have referred to. whatever problems new york city has. be they housing. be they education. be they transportation. these are all problems that are shared by my smaller cities in the state of connecticut. i am  here to try and get a slice of the pie for connecticut. i believe the legislation as drafted by the chairman of the committee and by the able ranking member is excellent legislation. it should  be tampered with. it should go through just as it is. but i want to k what is on the other side of that hill. i think i do have a sense of the misery that  exists. i think i do k what will happen unless we get on the stick. both the administration and congress alike. and determine what it is we are going to have to do next week. next month. a year from  to prevent aher new york city fiasco. rather than be put under a gun. such as we are  being put under. i want some advance ice before we get legislatively sandbagged. this is  in any way a criticism of the work of the committee. the fact is that there is an urgency. if you will. relative to the needs of new york city that has to be met on this floor. the situation that created it is one that we should have been apprised of a long time ago. before the emergency actually manifested itself. so the nature of the amendment which i present to my colleagues is to give us that kind of ice. i think what is going to happen in the report of the secretary of the treasury is that we are all going to learn exactly what the cost has been of our urban neglect of the past 8 years. and it is mounting. so the amendment is in the sense of good legislation and good planning. and that is all that is involved here. it alters  one bit the arrangements that have been worked out by the committee. it would give us a true picture of the urban crisis in this country. i understand that good legislation and good planning are  making political points in this day and age. apparently there are other matters which seem to gain more votes. but misery is misery and. believe me. it does exist in those urban areas. this is  the frothy thinking of some academic liberal. just get in an automobile and drive through those cities and take a look at that misery as it manifests itself in human beings. derelictshomes. health care. nutrition. job opportunities. indeed. yes. i am trying to accomplish two things here:  1. to give us a kledge upon which we can act rationally and reasonably. and  2. to highlight the fact that this administration. which went into office on a promise of assistance to the urban areas. has done hing. and there is possibility of anything being done until the next election comes along.
. i thank the distinguished manager of the bill. i have been much concerned. as has he. about the aircraft se abatement problem. several years ago. i presented to the senate a program for retrofitting. because i believed we all understand that we will  get rid of the existing fleet overnight. it will take some time. retrofitting represents an investment of hundreds of millions of dollars. although i have been encouraged by what we have done with the new "widebodied" jets. nevertheless. we must be concerned with the excessive se from the great majority of aircraft flying today over the united states. i recall that the distinguished senator from california went to school in cambridge when he was in massachusetts and i can assure him that the people of cambridge do  suffer as much as do those of south boston. east boston. revere. and winthrop and other surrounding towns where one literally can sleep at night. when the planes take off and land. it sounds like they are coming into your own house. the value of these residential properties has decreased. and this phee has taken place  only in towns surrounding logan airport but at other airports across the country. there is also a health problem and a psychological problem affecting the children who live close to airports. of course the ecoic costs of sy airplanes has already been discussed. i believe the financing program and the official commitment to retrofitting are matters that can be resolved separately. what i hope can be achieved through the useful discussion of this amendment is to get the senate on record as making a commitment to retrofitting by a time certain. i think that that time certain is  next year or the year after because as a practical matter it just can be done. we k that. but i do believe. and i hope that my colleagues agree. that 1978 is a realistic and attainable target. i understand the position of the airlines. i k retrofitting will be costly. but as i have indicated. even one of the airlines agrees that 1978 is an achieveable goal. i am  going to belabor this matter. i will  ask for a rollcall vote on this amendment. i have great faith in the senator from californias personal commitment to the program. i am very much encouraged by the fact that he will hold early hearings next year. the distinguished ranking member. the senator from delaware has made a similar commitment that we will have hearings and see if we can move to making it certain that by 1978. all u.s. aircraft which do  already meet federal se abatement limits. will be retrofitted. at least the american people will k of the federal governments plans for enforcing aircraft se limitations. and they are clearly entitled to have some kledge of when they can expect that this will be done. instead of people repeatedly saying to them. "well. it is coming. it is coming." with the assurance of the senator from california and the senator from delaware that we will have early hearings next year on this matter. and that the senator from california will consider making a commitment for a time certain for retrofitting. i would certainly agree to withdraw the amendment.
