 bush and ambassador zoellick their hard work in negotiating these agreements. and for upholding the principle that ecoic engagement worldwide works for the betterment of all the worlds people. like most of our friends and neighbors throughout the world. the united states faces serious ecoic challenges. particularly as we strive to work our way out of a period of recession and growing budget deficits. one means. and certainly  the only one. of strengthening our own ecoy while lifting others around the world. is to lower trade barriers and open markets. the promotion of free trade has characterized ecoic relations among the nations of the world during recent years. our competitors in europe. asia and latin america have sealed deals on about one hundred and thirty preferential trade compacts. some within our own hemisphere. yet the u.s. is party. to only three of these agreementsnafta and respective free trade agreements with israel and jordan. i was astounded to learn that the european union  exports more to south america than the united states. congress would do the american people an injustice if we allowed the u.s. to continue to be left behind as the force of free trade go on benefiting others around the world. free trade. rather than imposing u.s. values and robbing peoples of their culture. creates new ecoic opportunities and helps raise the standard of living for millions of people. our experience with nafta. for example. shows how profoundly this agreement has boosted exports and created jobs. indeed. u.s. merchandise exports to mexico were up almost 170 percent in naftas first eight years. well above the overall u.s. increase. for mexico. the news is also positive. as the naftarelated export boom was responsible for more than half the 3.5 million jobs created there since 1995. free trade is also a successful poverty reduction tool. consider this: since 1987. 140 million people in the tradedependent ecoies of east asia have been removed from he ranks of abject poverty. on the other hand. ecoically isolated south asia and much of africa experienced an increase in poverty during the 1990s. but the ecoic potential of regional and bilateral free trade agreements tell only part of the story. it is my view that strengthening ecoic bonds between the u.s. and developing nations will concurrently strengthen and encourage the forces of political reform as well. the experience of mexico is illustrative. most observers give at least some credit to nafta for encouraging mexicos political maturity. which saw the peaceful replacement of a political party that had a 70year lock on that nations presidency. future free trade initiatives in asia. latin america and the middle east could encourage the kind of dramatic political gains that. in recent decades. have transformed many of the worlds nations from authoritarian regimes into functioning democracies. trade in goods and services between chile and the u.s. is growing and today amoufits to more than $8 billion. under this fta with chile. more than 85 percent of bilateral trade in consumer and industrial products becomes tarifffree immediately. with most remaining tariffs eliminated within four years. enactment of this agreement will improve an already strong u.s. relationship with a nation that has overcome a legacy of political division. chiles military coup and resulting dictatorship in the 1970s and 1980s has today been replaced by a functioning. outwardlooking democracy. and it is  surprising that chiles commitment to free trade has taken place concurrently with its political reconciliation and growth. the singapore free trade agreement is the first u.s. fta with an asian nation and could spur future similar initiatives in that important region of the world. it will strengthen an already strong ecoic relationship with americas 12th largest trading partner by guaranteeing zero tariffs immediately on all u.s. goods entering singapore. the $40 billion in twoway trade in goods and services between the u.s. and singapore will surely increase through this fta. and both of these agreements do far more than simply encourage additional free trade. like our free trade agreement with jordan. these agreements with chile and singapore include strong provisions related to labor and the environment. under them. all three countries agree to: one. support international labor organization (ilo) core labor standards and internationally recognized workers rights and. two. effectively enforce their own labor laws in the traderelated matters. penalties for violations are $15 million annually. with failure to pay leading potentially to suspension of benefits. these agreements also do  forget the need to ensure protection of the environment. under them. parties are to ensure that their domestic environmental laws provide for high levels of environmental protection and are effectively enforced. parties must also strive to continue to improve their environmental laws. finally. theagreements make clear that it is inappropriate to weaken or reduce domestic environmental protections in order to encourage trade or investment. these environmental provisions are  just words: they are obligations enforced through each agreements dispute settlement procedures. approval of these two ftas today is an important early step in implementing a bold freetrade agenda. other such agreements with a great many other nations are either being negotiated or are under consideration. i am hopeful that todays strong vote in congress will encourage increased u.s. ecoic engagement and bring about additional marketopening. jobcreating free trade agreements. i urge all of my colleagues to support this much needed legislation.
 bush and ambassador zoellick their hard work in negotiating these agreements. and for upholding the principle that ecoic engagement worldwide works for the betterment of all the worlds people. like most of our friends and neighbors throughout the world. the united states faces serious ecoic challenges. particularly as we strive to work our way out of a period of recession and growing budget deficits. one means. and certainly  the only one. of strengthening our own ecoy while lifting others around the world. is to lower trade barriers and open markets. the promotion of free trade has characterized ecoic relations among the nations of the world during recent years. our competitors in europe. asia and latin america have sealed deals on about one hundred and thirty preferential trade compacts. some within our own hemisphere. yet the u.s. is party. to only three of these agreementsnafta and respective free trade agreements with israel and jordan. i was astounded to learn that the european union  exports more to south america than the united states. congress would do the american people an injustice if we allowed the u.s. to continue to be left behind as the force of free trade go on benefiting others around the world. free trade. rather than imposing u.s. values and robbing peoples of their culture. creates new ecoic opportunities and helps raise the standard of living for millions of people. our experience with nafta. for example. shows how profoundly this agreement has boosted exports and created jobs. indeed. u.s. merchandise exports to mexico were up almost 170 percent in naftas first eight years. well above the overall u.s. increase. for mexico. the news is also positive. as the naftarelated export boom was responsible for more than half the 3.5 million jobs created there since 1995. free trade is also a successful poverty reduction tool. consider this: since 1987. 140 million people in the tradedependent ecoies of east asia have been removed from he ranks of abject poverty. on the other hand. ecoically isolated south asia and much of africa experienced an increase in poverty during the 1990s. but the ecoic potential of regional and bilateral free trade agreements tell only part of the story. it is my view that strengthening ecoic bonds between the u.s. and developing nations will concurrently strengthen and encourage the forces of political reform as well. the experience of mexico is illustrative. most observers give at least some credit to nafta for encouraging mexicos political maturity. which saw the peaceful replacement of a political party that had a 70year lock on that nations presidency. future free trade initiatives in asia. latin america and the middle east could encourage the kind of dramatic political gains that. in recent decades. have transformed many of the worlds nations from authoritarian regimes into functioning democracies. trade in goods and services between chile and the u.s. is growing and today amoufits to more than $8 billion. under this fta with chile. more than 85 percent of bilateral trade in consumer and industrial products becomes tarifffree immediately. with most remaining tariffs eliminated within four years. enactment of this agreement will improve an already strong u.s. relationship with a nation that has overcome a legacy of political division. chiles military coup and resulting dictatorship in the 1970s and 1980s has today been replaced by a functioning. outwardlooking democracy. and it is  surprising that chiles commitment to free trade has taken place concurrently with its political reconciliation and growth. the singapore free trade agreement is the first u.s. fta with an asian nation and could spur future similar initiatives in that important region of the world. it will strengthen an already strong ecoic relationship with americas 12th largest trading partner by guaranteeing zero tariffs immediately on all u.s. goods entering singapore. the $40 billion in twoway trade in goods and services between the u.s. and singapore will surely increase through this fta. and both of these agreements do far more than simply encourage additional free trade. like our free trade agreement with jordan. these agreements with chile and singapore include strong provisions related to labor and the environment. under them. all three countries agree to: one. support international labor organization (ilo) core labor standards and internationally recognized workers rights and. two. effectively enforce their own labor laws in the traderelated matters. penalties for violations are $15 million annually. with failure to pay leading potentially to suspension of benefits. these agreements also do  forget the need to ensure protection of the environment. under them. parties are to ensure that their domestic environmental laws provide for high levels of environmental protection and are effectively enforced. parties must also strive to continue to improve their environmental laws. finally. theagreements make clear that it is inappropriate to weaken or reduce domestic environmental protections in order to encourage trade or investment. these environmental provisions are  just words: they are obligations enforced through each agreements dispute settlement procedures. approval of these two ftas today is an important early step in implementing a bold freetrade agenda. other such agreements with a great many other nations are either being negotiated or are under consideration. i am hopeful that todays strong vote in congress will encourage increased u.s. ecoic engagement and bring about additional marketopening. jobcreating free trade agreements. i urge all of my colleagues to support this much needed legislation.
. i want to commend my distinguished colleague from new york for the foresight he has shown in regard to our ecoic foreign policy and for his constructive leadership in proposing solutions consistent with our policy of expanding. rather than contracting. world trade. there is question of the severity of foreign competition in an increasing number of fields. the only major question is the type of response we shall make to it. there are those. who. as always. would have us raise a high wall of tariff and quota restrictions and thus preserve the american market for american products. to do that indiscriminately. on an acrosstheboard basis. would. in my judgment.  be in the interests of our country. for one thing. tariffs and quotas amount to a tax on the american consumer. resulting in higher prices here. but the basic reason we must  again retreat into the high tariff protectionism of the 1920s is that this would lead other nations to follow the same course. they would clamp down on their own imports of americanmade goods in retaliation. this would have much wider consequences than the obvious fact that it would bring about unemployment in many american industries which produce goods for export. it would add up to a major decline in all world trade. there is widespread agreement among ecoic historians that our own high tariffs in the period just before the world ecoic depression of the 1930s had a great deal to do with causing that depression. the nations of the free world could be committing ecoic suicide if they were to follow that course again. we need a cooperative effort to make american products fully competitive in our own and in world markets. our government has a major responsibility here. for one thing. our tax and depreciation policies must be revised to make it possible for american industry to modernize its obsolete plant and equipment. and make it possible for us to compete. in that respect. on equal terms with our foreign competitors. of course. both industry and labor have got a major responsibility. tooto cooperate in increasing our productivity and efficiency. and i am convinced that so far as labor is concerned. it will do its part fully. once it is convinced that its efforts would  be used by management for the purpose of harming the legitimate interests of the trade union movement. our existing procedures. through which an industry faced with serious foreign competition can  get tariff or quota relief. are helpful in some cases. but. in others. relief may  be available or it may be inadequate. tariffs and quotas are clumsy instruments which apply to whole industries rather than to the individual plants. communities. and workers most in need of assistance. i think we have a major responsibility. as a nation. to help those americans adversely affected by our liberal foreign ecoic policy. for this policy is so clearly in our national interest and that of our trading partners in the free world. the proposed national import policy act. introduced this year by the senior senator from new york. is designed to make assistance available to businesses. individuals. and to communities injured by foreign competition. business firms would be eligible for special loans. technical and managerial assistance. and for special tax treatment. with liberalized depreciation allowances. this assistance would be designed to help them to adjust to the new situation and to become competitive once again. the bill which i was glad to join in sponsoring would make workers who are unemployed as a result of increased imports eligible for a higher rate of unemployment compensation. and for longer periods of time. it would also establish a program of retraining and vocational rehabilitation under the supervision of the secretary of labor. if job opportunity occurred where the unemployed person worked. the federal government would assist him in locating and in moving to aher job opportunity elsewhere. i commend my distinguished colleague for his leadership in putting forth these principles at a time when pressures are strong to abandon our commitment to an unfettered and expa:ading world trade. i hope that his remarks will receive the most careful consideration in every quarter of our land.
subsequently said:  the authority to "phase out" over a period of 7 years new tariff protection afforded by a tariff commission recommendation to any product. and. second. it provides adjustment assistance to enable individual businesses. individual workers. and communities to adjust to the national policy which dictates increased imports. in order to accept these imports. we must meet the needs of businesses and workers who may be seriously endangered by them. basic to this issue is the point that. while we have an estimated 200.000 to 400.000 workers concerned in businesses like some branches of textiles. and certain fabricated metal items. gloves. and so forth. which may suffer seriously from import competition. we have an estimated 4 to 5 million who are engaged in the production of everything from autos to medicines for export. aher vital factor is the communist challenge. for the communists. through state trading. are in a position to take many of the products we  import off the hands of our supplier nations if we do  do so. khrushchev said in 1955: we value trade least for ecoic reasons and most for political purposes. he has indeed declared war upon us "in the peaceful field of trade." we declare a war we will win over the united states. the threat to the united states is  the icbm. but in the field of peaceful production. we are relentless in this and it will prove the superiority of our system. the communistbloc trade. with 41 nations in the less developed areas of the free world. more than doubled between 1954 and 1958. and by the middle of last year. 1960. the bloc had doubled its trade and payments agreements with free world nations. indeed. sovietbloc trade expansion with the free world nearly doubled in the last 6 years. while our share remained. though much greater in size. generally stable. the concept of adjustment assistance to workers. business. and communities adversely affected by the increasing flow of imports concentrated on a few sectors of the u.s. ecoy is basic to the ability of our nation to continue its role of free world ecoic leadership. the responsibilities of this leadership include the maintenance of the stability of the dollar upon which the free worlds currencies are based. and which is therefore the primary medium of ecoic progress. the $35 billion annual rate of u.s. tradeimports and exportsis the major determining factor of dollar stability. representing more than 60 percent of our international transactions during 1960. these responsibilities also include ratification of u.s. membership in the oecdorganization for ecoic cooperation and developmentwhich is to come up for senate approval in the very near future. the u.s. gross national product represents more than half of the $900 billion annual product of the 20 oecd countries. and u.s. trade represents more than onefourth of the oecd countries annual trade. in the last analysis. the full effect of u.s. ecoic weight can be translated into effective action in the oecd only through expanding trade. although imports may cause some injury to segments of the national ecoy. we can afford to reduce our 16 percent share of free world trade since it represents quantitatively. after defense expenditures. our largest commitments to international affairs. neither. however. can we afford to permit such injury to take place without doing everything in our power to alleviate its consequences. the national import policy act of 1961 is designed to meet this situation and it would do so at an approximate cost of between $100 million and $150 million per year or an amount equivalent to the tax revenue derived from $1 billion in u.s. exports. on the other hand. a reduction of $1 billion of imports could help probably more than 2 percent of our present unemployed. while many times that number of workers would lose their jobs if there was any substantial slump in u.s. exports. under the terms of the national import policy act of 1961. assistance to alleviate serious injury from imports would be available from the federal government in the form of loans. tax incentives. and technical aids to qualified businesses. communities. and industrial development corporations. together with special unemployment compensation. retraining assistance. provisions for early retirement. and rblocation allowances for workers. for workers unemployed as the result of increased foreign imports. the act would set up a program to assure unemployment compensation for at least 6 months at a rate of .70 percent of the average weekly wage in their respective states. with the difference between state unemployment payment levels and the compensation provided under this act to be made up by the federal government. those among these unemployed workers who can find new jobs because of their advanced age would become eligible to receive their regular social security retirement benefits at age 60. with such payments to be made out of general revenues. and  out of the social security trust fund. perhaps. 10.000 workers would  be able to find suitable employment because of advanced age. and would want to retire. at the rate of $1.000 per worker. this would cost about $10 million per year. even at the end of 5 years. this should  exceed $30 million per year. in addition. vocational training would be available to workers. as well as relocation allowances. should they be unable to find new employment in their own labor market areas. at present. the governments bureau of apprenticeship and training promotes and services the training of more than 200.000 apprentices and thousands of other workers. at the cost of slightly more than $4 million a year. a doubling and intensification of this effort would be called for. especially with respect to grants. subsidies. and contributions. the cost may amount to $10 million a year. in addition. perhaps 50.000 workers could be enrolled in fulltime courses. costing $150 per worker. the cost to the federal government would be $7.5 million a year. relocation assistance to help workers move to other labor market areas may have to be given to 10.000 workers. at an average cost of $200 per worker. the total cost would come to $2 million. larger businesses. communities. and industrial development corporations found eligible under the bills criteria would have recourse to a $100 million revolving loan fund. so that they could finance the adjustments necessitated by our policy in support of increased trade. a $50 million fund to supplement the present small business administrations disaster loan fund would be authorized to help smaller companies adjust to the same circumstances. in addition. the bill amends the internal revenue code so that more liberal depreciation allowances and more rapid amortization would be available to seriously affected enterprises. i ask unanimous consent that summary analyses of both bills may be included in the record as a part of my remarks.
. i recently received a copy of a study on "the contribution of the u.s. oil industry to the u.s. balance of payments." which i feel is most enlightening and would be. of interest to my colleagues. the study is of particular significance in light of the administrations proposal to place a tax on u.s. capital outflows. it is apparent from the data contained in this study that while u.s. foreign investment represents an outflow of u.s. funds in the first instance. subsequent income from such investments overseas results in major revenues for the united states. the study points out that the foreign activities of some 200 u.s. companies engaged in international oil operations produced a net inflow of more than $638 million in 1962a figure sufficient egh to substantially affect our balance of payments. this inflow is the result of several elements: first. profits returned to the united states. second. exports of petroleum and refined products. equipment. and supplies for the operation and expansion of u.s. oil companies. third. purchases made by foreign governments and business firms made possible as the result of the income received from the u.s. companies. and fourth. proceeds from exports of oilbased chemicals. this substantial contribution to our balance of payments by the foreign activities of u.s. oil companies serves to indicate that great caution must be exercised in considering proposals which would in any way slow up this inflow. in weighing the balanceofpayments effects of such proposals as the interest c. equalization taxa tax designed to restrict the outflow of u.s. capitalwe should look at the effect on our balance of payments of the substantial contribution of the oil industry to the plus side of our payments ledger. i ask unanimous consent that the report to which i have referred be printed at this point in the record.
