. the greekturkish ecoic cooperation project has demonstrated several things. one of these is that there is a will to cooperate. and that a project such as this. political in its motivations. relying chiefly on the enlightened selfinterest of the peoples of these two nations. and aiming at cooperative and mutually beneficial accomplishments of the private sector. can have important effects. in 1965 and the several succeeding years. all concerned with the project were advised by "realists" that progress was possible. that greeks and turks could neither trust  cooperate with each other. the contrary has been proven. cooperation between businessmen. industrialists and bankers. on the two sides. has been ongoing. though honesty compels recognition of the fact that the road to such cooperation has on occasion been a rocky one. but the results are thereshown in cooperation  only on a governmental levelan incidental but important result of the projectbut also increased cooperation between the private sectors of both countries. thus. before there was communication. outside the language of invective.  there are regular meetings of the chambers of commerce and industry and joint ecoic surveys are conducted by the development banks of both greece and turkey. with special liaison working parties of ecoists. also where previously visas between the countries were a matter of prolonged diplomatic negotiation. they are  routine. and one may with reasonable confidence look forward to the day when visas will  be requireda state of affairs that existed in the days before the cyprus crisis. the second important conclusion demonstrated by the greekturkish ecoic cooperation project is that a common sense of the mutual interest. and especially the mutual interest of these two eastern mediterranean countries which are vital members of the nato alliance. can overcome the monetary difficulties of a situation like that of cyprus. clearly. outside force can compel nations to reach the conclusion that cooperation is a better course than hostility and this hostility at several times seemed about to break into open warfare. but a project such as the greekturkish ecoic cooperation project. by carefully restricting itself to an impartial and obtrusive role. can strengthen the will to cooperate and the position of those in each country who favor this course.
