. this is  an easy amendment for a public official to oppose. the temptation to curry favor with the conduit of what we do and those who elect us to do it is very real. but because i do believe in the integrity and fairness of the american news media i do  hesitate to label this amendment "ill conceived" by its proposers and "ill befitting" its intended beneficiaries. let me say at the outset that. to the credit of the news media. there have been attempts to pressure this senator into voting for the cranston amendment. in fact many have advocated its defeat. second. as a matter of historical belief and public expression i have never been on the side of those who attempt to portray the press as something other than fair. competent. patriotic. and human. so this vote is  the manifestation of a long nurtured grudge. i am against this amendment because it plays favorites and is therefore  fair. ody likes freezes or controls. everybody is making sacrifices while they operate. it seems to me that the time of the senate is more excellently spent on making sure that everybody means everybody rather than issuing "freebies" in the name of constitutional or historical precedent. yes. i feel sorry for the working press. the owners. publishers. compositors. pressmen. engravers. and flyboys. but i also feel sorry for the laborers. craftsmen. whitecollar workers. and executives of the other industries in my state. every part of the free enterprise system is in this unfortunately necessary exercise together. and they are coming out together. the news media are  a collection of charitable entities. they are competitive. forprofit corporations owned by shareholders with their stock listed on stock exchangessuch as. du pont. gannett. cowles communications. rca. nbc. american broadcasting. metromedia. cbs. knight newspapers. new york times. washington post. time. inc.. timesmirror. dun & bradstreet. gross telecasting. reeves telecom. sonderling broadcasting. lee enterprises. and travelers corp.. in my state.  that cable television has been added. we can add a whole list of additional corporations.  that movies have been added to the list. mgm. 20th century fox. and transamerica can be added. they are all part of american industry.  american government or philanthropy. their survival depends on excellence and creativity. freedom from government control applies to acquisition and dissemination of the news. it was  meant to excuse them from antitrust laws. or criminal laws. or tax laws. health statutes. social security. or labor laws. et cetera. the matter before the senate is such as those. why. for example. should the workers of scovill manufacturing in waterbury. conn.. sacrifice while the employees in the news media and of gannett and travelers corp. in hartford are exempted. i want to make clear that the employees of the latter two corporations have  asked to be excepted. but i use this local hypothetical should the amendment of the senator from california pass. i do  k about the rest of my colleagues. but there are egh inequities to explain to the people of my state . without creating more
