. it is with regret that i must rise in opposition to this amendment. as i have great and deep respect for the gentlewoman from oregon. the principle is very simple. the cost in different school districts varies. i believe this amendment could discriminate against highcost school districts and therefore against children in these districts. therefore. i must regretfully oppose it. and i would. add that in westchester county we have poverty amid affluence. 1 in 12 families lives in abject poverty and 1 in 5 families in serious poverty.
. i think we are all agreed that the goal of welfare assistance is to make as many americans as possible independent of its benefits. welfare. as it was originally conceived. was designed to help those who. for one reason or aher. could  help themselves. the first recipients of welfare were those for whom the community accepted a legitimate responsibility: the aged. the disabled. the unemployed. and the children of the unemployed. but in the course of the last decade. we have seen the welfare roles increase at an alarming rate. the number of families receiving aid to families with dependent children has doubled in 10 years. the number of children receiving afdc  stands at close to 5 million. the unemployment rate. while only 4.3 percent on a national average. reaches 30 percent. 40 percent. even 50 percent in many of our urban slums. our city schools. which should serve as the key to progress. have all too often stood as barriers to achievement and initiative. welfare. in and of itself. is  desirable. as those who are its recipients are generally the first to ackledge. for those who can work or who could work. given the proper training and opportunities. there is something about relief which cripples the spirit and violates the recipients sense of ho and selfrespect. relief has  "work." if by "working" we mean offering some promise for permanent. constructive solutions. it has relieved the desperate pressures. but it has accomplished little toward helping those who receive it to escape from their unfortunate condition. those members of congress who have worked most intimately with the legislation  before us are well aware of these limitations of our welfare system. the emphasis of the present bill upon job training. earnings incentives. daycare and medicalcare facilities. and similar selfhelp programs. shows an enlightened and essential awareness that welfare must cease to be a dead end. it must become an avenue to a better life. in keeping with this goal. i am convinced that there is one area in the present legislation where one more step in the right direction would reap returns far in excess of any potential costs. this is in the area of earnings exemptions under the present program of aid to families with dependent children. both the house and senate versions of the bill contain the provision that all earnings of children under 16. and all earnings of children between the ages of 16 and 21 who are fulltime students. can be excluded in determining a familys need for assistance. this is a good provision. as far as it goes. but it does  go far egh. full earnings exemptions should be allowed for parttime students as well. we are  dealing with an ordinary question of incentives when we talk about the children of the slums. we are talking about children who have been deprived from birth of the necessary exposure to vocabulary and sentence structure. who have never been encouraged to hold a respect for learning. who have had little incentive to exercise their imagination and ambition. we are talking about children who attend school for years in rundown. overcrowded buildings. who use textbooks and materials which do  deal with the world as they k it. and therefore seem irrelevant. we are dealing with children who may never have a place to study. or even to read or to think. these children see. in the defeat of their parents and neighbors. little incentive to try to improve their own lives. thirtyone percent of the children who complete ninth grade in the schools of our major cities fail to receive their high school diplomas. and the dropout rate for the slum areas of these cities is of course even higher than the citywide average. those city students who do finish high school find themselves at an immediate disadvantage when they apply for jobs or attempt to further their education. the instruction which they have received has  prepared them to compete with the graduates of advanced suburban schools. even those who have kept up all through high school may still find that they lack certain basic skills. youngsters with a high school diploma all too often find themselves washing dishes or driving cabs or working at the variety of parttime jobs which the large urban centers offer. many of these youngsters might want to take job training or further their education. but the odds are against them. vocational and technical schools. and even secretarial schools. are rarely located in the slums. going to school may mean giving up an opportunity for a parttime job. it may mean hours of travel in addition to hours of classwork. it will certainly mean expenses: tuition. books. transportation. and clothes. often amounting to several hundred dollars a year. and it will inevitably mean being placed in competition with children from more advantaged backgrounds. given all of the environmental handicaps. it is a rare young man or woman who will venture forth from the slums for further education. i seriously doubt if many of our most disadvantaged young people will be tempted by a full earnings exemption for fulltime students. they can afford to be fulltime students. in some cases their families are dependent upon the extra wages they can bring in. and will  let them be fulltime students. and in all too many cases they could  keep up academically with a fulltime educational program. but a full earnings exemption for parttime students might very well be the program for which we are searching. many youngsters who would  go back to school full time might be encouraged to enroll for one or two courses in a vocational school or community college if they could be assured that this would  adversely affect the familys income. students whose jobs might  enable them to attend school full time might find that they could afford the time and expense of a parttime education. the education which they thus received might easily be sufficient to enable them to find a steady job. to improve their earning power. and to at last begin the long trek out of the slums. i believe this program is worth trying. i urge that my amendment. to provide a full earnings exemption for parttime as well as fulltime students. be adopted.
 nixons welfare reform proposal and the school lunch program. a careful reading of the text reveals that dr. butz merely raised questions about. but did  express his opposition to welfare reform or the school lunch program. in his testimony before the committee he expressed strong support for a subsidized program of food distribution to the poor. i find on balance that there is evidence u which to conclude that as secretary of agriculture. dr. butz would work against the interests of small farmers and disdvantaged americans. in considering the ination of dr. butz i am reminded of the confirmation proceedings for gov. walter j. hickel. who was sul:jected to the most intense scrutiny and questioning. in anncing my intention to vote for mr. hickels confirmation. i said in part: he is fully aware that his every step in office will be watched. both by his critics and by those of us who feel. with absolutely personal rancor. that he must prove himself by the way in which he executes his impendirg duties. to overcome the doubts which have been raised about his suitability for the position. the secretarydesignate will have to turn in an exemplary performance . . . he will in fact have to do a superior job if he is to win over the skeptics. for my part. i am willing to be convinced. and i wish the secretarydesignate every success in the demanding tasks he will  undertake. secretary hickel proved himself to be an outstanding secretary of the interior. those of us who had doubts. were pleased with his performance. if confirmed. it will similarly be necessary for dr. butz to perform excellently to please his critics and supporters alike. i believe he has the capacity to serve as an outstanding secretary of agriculture and will so serve. thus. i shall vote to confirm his ination.
. i want at this time. if i may. to thank the senator from south dakota for the extraordinary leadership he has shown in these matters. it is a pleasure to be associated with him both on the food stamp bill and the school lunch program bill. the country and particularly the beneficiaries of these programs are greatly indebted to the work of the distinguished senator from south dakota.
prototype shelter construction is one phase of the program. is there any inhibition upon the use of of the amount allocated for research and development for research with respect to shelters or to teach people how to take care of themselves in the event of an atomic attack.
. on behalf of myself and my colleague from new york i send to the desk for appropriate reference two bills which would affect the social security act. the first is a bill to amend the act so as to raise from 18 to 21 years the maximum age of children receiving survivors benefits who are attending schools. the second is a bill to amend the definition of "child" under the social security act so as to permit the payment of survivors benefits to foster children who have  been legally adopted. but who have been cared for by a person who assumed full parental responsibility. the proper education of our youth is as vital to our nations welfare as defense in the national interest. and the 16 to 21 age group faces some of the most acute problems in education. the mounting school dropout rate in this age group is causing us much concern. this is also the age group which shows the highest rate of unemployment. the intimate relationship between education and employment is well established. therefore. it is essential that we give our youth every opportunity to receive a maximum amount of education. under our present social security laws. benefits may be received if a child is in school and if one or both of his parents are deceased or disabled. provided that the child has  passed his 18th birthday. this  has the effect of cutting off assistance when the need for it is greatest and tends to discourage the youth from completing his education. it is necessary to extend this age limit to 21 because in our society education has become a prerequisite for vocational success in most colleges. furthermore. a child is entitled to complete the education which he has started. and which has been paid for by the deceased parent. by making it possible for our youth to attend educational institutions. we shall be fulfilling our obligations and at the same time we shall be helping to cut down the rapidly expanding unemployment among those who are  yet 21. a parallel measure in the civil service field. which i introduced as s. 1337 in the 87th congress. was enacted into law as a part of public law 87793 and is a valuable precedent for recognition of the public policy involved here. reforms in our social security laws are essential if we are to make them more humane in their application. this bill will give us an opportunity to profit from the experience we have had in the administration of the law. for these reasons i believe it to be essential that we take action on this legislation at the earliest possible opportunity. the second bill would amend the definition of "child" under the social security act so as to permit the payment of survivors benefits to foster children who have  been legally adopted but have been cared for by a person who assumed full parental responsibility. this bill would fill a gap in the encouragement of the foster care program at very little cost but with considerable benefit. situations in which children find themselves dependent upon workers other than their parents include those where a child of divorced parents lives with close relatives or a family friend. where a child has been deserted or is illegitimate. and where for a variety of reasons parents can assume responsibility for their child. in these situations the child is cut off from benefits when the person who has been supporting him dies or becomes disabled. this bill would correct this unfortunate situation at what the department of health. education. and welfare has reported to be very low cost.
. if the war on poverty is to achieve any lasting degree of success. it should provide the capability of striking at the hard roots of this problem. adequate and comprehensive education is one of the essentials. but all of the available data on this aspect of the poverty problem show that our schools are  doing the job that is needed. the harsh fact is that many children from disadvantaged homes are  getting the needed education. many fail in the first grades and continue to fail until they are old egh to drop out. where they join the ranks of the unemployed and delinquent. moreover. such failure brings with it as a consequence serious deterioration in the standing and prestige of the education system. yet only peripheral assistance to the schools is available in the present ecoic opportunity act. effective remedies can come only from a program of federal aid to elementary and secondary school education. for only with qualified schools and adequate teaching aids can we back up the belief that many children from disadvantaged homes can perform what is required of them. given these favorable conditions. there is sound reason to believe that schools can teach effectively disadvantaged children. two significant articles in the press emphasize the importance of attacking the poverty problems at this level. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record an article written by fred m. hechinger. entitled "localities with own improvement plans seen getting priority." which was published in the new york times. march 22. and the feature article written by u.s. commissioner of education. francis keppel. entitled "command posts in new war: slum schools could be logical nucleus of attack on poverty if they were lighthouses and  fortresses." which was published in the washington post.
. the amendment which i have proposed has been very thoroughly explained. it would allow govers to veto community action plans. provided that. if the director of the program decided that he wished to override the veto. he could do so only after a hearing. therefore. the gover would have an opportunity to present his case in the public domain. i have also made it clear that the public hearing to which i refer could be an informal public hearing. it would  have to be surrounded by the forms of law with respect to public hearings. whatever may be the general statutes. if a statutory public hearing were provided for. but there should be a hearing. and it should be open to the public. i have doubt that. if the senate adopted the amendment. the administrator would be able to promulgate rules and regulations which would deal with the subject adequately. it seems to me that we are in exactly the same position. and face exactly the same dilemma. that we faced a year ago. i have an idea as to what the amendment of the senator from vermont to my amendment will be. he proposed it in the committee. it relates to the possibility of a veto by the gover. which would be subject to being sustained or overridden by his own state legislature. of course. that is a variant of the govers veto which we have dealt with by a very close vote. i believe that the plan which i have offered to the senate is the only plan that is likely to satisfy those who feel strongly about states rights. and those who feel strongly about the poverty program in terms of being able to reach areas which might  otherwise be reached. this is very much the approach the house came to after much consideration. we should  leave it to the house bill. however. because we had experience with that the last time the bill came before the congress. what happened the last time was that in the senate we wrote a veto provision into the bill. and the house promptly went for the veto.  we are writing veto provision in the bill in the senate. and my guess is that the house would go for that. unless the senate manifests its will that it desires something in the bill to deal with the govers vetoes. i believe that there is a real danger in letting the bill leave the senate without such a provision in it. because we had bad experience with that the last time. withstanding how much i favor the program. i was very unhappy with the way the matter was left. and i would have been if there had been hing said about a veto. and that is exactly what is happening . in other words. the pendulum. having swung one way. is swinging the other way without anything in the bill whatever with respect to the govers right to veto. it does provide for consultation. but that is all. indeed. that was an amendment of mine. so having learned from experienceand we have certainly learned the toughness of the minds of senators today by reason of the fact that minds are pretty much what they were a year ago. the voting then was very close. and it is just as close today. give or take absentees on each side. let us learn from experience that many of us got something we did  want in the veto. so that we shall  get something that others of us do  want. which is veto whatever. or reference to a veto whatever. i k that senators on both sides of this issue feel very strongly. mally. compromise falls between the two stools. that is why life is often such a sharp change from one side to the other. which is exactly what we are saying here. i do  expect to convince every senator. but i hope that there are egh minds in the senate who will look at the question coolly and will recognize that we need some compromise between the two views. we have the house approach of record for a compromise. and it should be latched into the bill. that is the plan that apparently represents the middleoftheroad approach. i should like to see that the director has such an opportunity as is provided in the amendment.
. the multiplicity of federal education aid programs administered by a variety of agencies poses a difficult problem to school administrators. especially those from poor districts with a heavy poverty impact and with meager resources of their own. as to where and how to fit in local needs. and especially how to make application. as school boards magazine has written of the more than $9 billion in educationaid programsschool boards and administrators have a very serious problem in trying to maintain accurate and uptodate information on the multitude of federalrelated programs. this difficulty is complicated by cost. for example. one commercial information service sells a ebook summary of all hewrelated programs. including monthly supplements and subscriber inquiry service. for more than $300. other prices charged for various commercial services required by school administrators to keep abreast of federal programs range up to as high as $500 annually. these charges are especially burdensome to the poorer school districts which need these aids the most. in the light of this problem. i have urged the department of health. education. and welfare to establish onestop service centers for school officials both here in washington and in office of education regional offices throughout the nation. such centers would be able to furnish information and make appropriate references  only on programs administered by the office of education and other divisions of hew but also on education programs administered by other agencies--for example. the national science foundation. the office of ecoic opportunity. the department of labor. the bureau of indian affairs. the veterans administration. and the department of defense. to cite the principal agencies with education programs. in responding to my inquiry. the department of health. education. and welfare indicated that hew had established a task force "to consider the feasibility of establishing onestop departmental information centers." however. there is indication of the length of time that it will take from the commencement of these feasibility studiesand they have just begunto actual fruition. i urge that the hew act with dispatch on the important undertaking. the education programs authorized by congress can attain the goals which we envisioned unless they are delivered to where they will do the most good and utilized to maximum effect. i recall that during the korean war. a onestop service center was established at the department of commerce for small businesses seeking to sell products and services and conduct business with the myriad of offices handling contracts and federal programs. if such a service can be supplied to the administrator of a commercial enterprise. it seems to me that it can also be supplied to the administrators of the some 25.000 school districts throughout the nation. i hope that the department of health. education. and welfare will give priority to establishing these service centers for school boards and administrators which i have suggested.
i think perhaps it might be welland i hope senator morse will forgive meif i say. president lyndon johnson. please e the performance of republicans as senator morse has referred to them. . to quickly conclude. senator prouty is entitled to credit for the advance funding concept. which is so critically important and which will enable school districts to make future plans based on what they are likely to receive from this program. it is critically important and creative and it is imbedded into the bill as contained in the conference report. i wish to add my praise to that of the senator from oregon to charles lee and jack forsythe. majority staff members. who have been tireless in their assistance on this bill. and to roy millenson. on the staff of the miity. for their extremely constructive work in respect to this matter. we could  have done this work without them. i wish to express my thanks to legislative counsel. peter leroux and blair crower. whose work was of tremendous help. i also wish to thank richard smith. richard johnson. and richard warden. who worked under the direction of dr. samuel halperin. assistant secretary of health. education. and welfare for legislation. for their assistance at all hours in providing requested information and statistics. finally. i wish to pay tribute to the creative role played by my colleagues in the house. representatives ayres. quie. goodell. and others of the miity. without whom we could  have had the bill.
. the reason i said i would like to call this amendment up before the committee amendment on the use of section 32 funds for milk is that that amendment is intended to reach some of the same children. frankly. having served with the distinguished senator from florida on the conference committee last year. and king of his very deep devotion to the section 32 concept. i would like to avoid getting into what i k is a very difficult subject. certainly. i hope that we can amend this particular item that should appeal. it seems to me. to senators of all points of viewliberal. conservative. or middle of the roadbecause the school food program conducive to encouraging a kind of activity which is indispensable to adequate welfare reform. it will enable young women to work rather than to remain on welfare.
when i served on the appropriations committee. we provided that the same number of staff personnel in the department of health. education. and welfare should operate everywhere else in the country as operate in the south on this issue. as a matter of fact. that has been accomplished. i have some figures which indicate that. but. . obviously the greater bulk. by far. of the litigation has come about in places where the segregated school system was basic and inherent in the law and in the social order of the communities. so that. up to . though there has been an assignment of personnel which is equal in both places. that fact has  yet been manifested in litigation. in addition. there is probably  as much ground for litigation in other areas because they do  have this heritage. but. as i say. the reason that i must oppose the amendment is that i feel that it will only bedevil the situation. and if it adds hing. so much the more reason for rejecting it.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record correspondence between the hoable elliot l. richardson. secretary of health. education. and welfare and me concerning the departments policy on issuing statistics on school desegregation nationwide.
. this memo would seem to contradict that portion of the amended regulations. already inserted in the record. which makes eligibility for assistance under esap dependent upon new desegregation requirements stemming from the swann case. one does  have to be a lawyer to k that the principal thrust of the swann case is in the area of transportation. and that its chief mandate can only be fulfilled through busing school children in order to desegregate schools. in a press release dated july 27. 1971. the secretary of health. education. and welfare indicated that less than 3 percent of the moneys expended in esaps first year of operation had been used in connection with transportation services. i ask unanimous consent that that press release be inserted in the record at this point.
as the senator from rhode island has pointed out. we are  frustrated in achieving a solution to this problem at this late hour before the beginning of the new school year. i hope. however. that if our fears as to the difficulties faced by the guaranteed student loan program are borne out that our committee will press for a workable solution. in concluding. i should like to recall a passage from the supplemental views submitted by the miity senators of the committee on labor and public welfare as part of the report on s. 659. the bill which eventually became public law 92318. the education amendments of 1972: in considering the availability of a higher education. we refer  only to those in the poverty category but also the large number of young people from middleincome families whose resources are insufficient to meet the mounting costs of a college education. we must be careful lest our campuses be occupied principally by those at the poverty level. who qualify for special aid. and those from the upper income brackets. who can afford to paya campus peopled only by the very rich and the very poor. pricing out the middle income. is also violative of the american system.
