. i would like to bring to the attention of my colleagues a fine article written by senator heinz. that has been published in environment magazine (januaryfebruary 1979). the article suggests a number of reasons why we should encourage the mining of anthracite coal. since we in the east have a great deal of this type of coal waiting in the ground to be mined. i urge my colleagues to give careful attention to senator heinz article. i ask that the text of senator heinz article be printed in the record.
i thank the distinguished senator from arizona. i rise in opposition to both the kennedy and the gary hart amendments. i do so  to defend in any way bigness. in fact. i think the whole question of the concentration of ecoic power in the hands of business is one that ought to be thoroughly reviewed by the courts. congress. and by the executive branch of government. but i k in the "dear colleague" letter that arrived supporting this type of legislation the statement is made that the 16 major oil companies taken together have about 72 percent of our domestic crude oil production. 75 percent of our refining capacity. and account for about 70 percent of our retail gasoline sales. i do  plan to spend any great amount of time on the question of size of u.s. corporations except to suggest the following: how many automobile manufacturers are there that dominate the market. to my good friend from south dakota. maybe he would like to tell me how many farm machinery manufacturers dominate the market. so that we are  excluding my own home state of connecticut. how many airplane engine manufacturers dominate the market. how many airframe manufacturers dominate the market. how many computer manufacturing firms dominate the market. i think in every one of the instances that i have cited we are probably talking about three. four or at the maximum five companies. so. if there is a problem here. it is a problem that does  just attach to the oil companies. it attaches to the growth of ecoic power concentrated in the hands of american industry across the boards. it is a problem to be addressed by all aspects of our government. the reason i rise to oppose this amendment is that it takes the focus off the problem and it takes the focus off who is responsible for the problem. let us assume for one minute that the oil companies share in the present energy crisis. let us just make that assumption. but let us leave them for a moment. the principal responsibility for this crisis obviously lies in the hands of the opec nations. but once that hurdle is crossed the next responsibility lies at the doorstep of the congress of the united states and the president of the united states. there is question of the fact that the oil companies can share part of the blame. there is question that the american people can share part of the blame. but what is so insidious about what has been going on here in the congress of the united states for the past year or so is that all the rhetoric and all the legislative effort is directed at the easiest target insofar as the demagogues are concerned. specifically the oil companies. how about the congress of the united states. it has been 2 years since the arab nations imposed their embargo. 2 years. the fact that we do  have any sort of a conservation programis that the fault of the oil companies. the fact that there have been programs on the part of government to discover new energy to get on with the business of relying on other sources of energy. is that the fault of the oil companies. let us just take a look at the record. it is one fraught with politics. neither side is immune. there has been a deadlock between the president of the united states and the congress of the united states. the price of oil. gas. and energy is going to be determined by that age old equation. the law of supply and demand. if we wish to go ahead and lower the price of the commodity. if we wish to have abundant supplies of the commodity. there are two things we can do. we can conserve. and we can encourage new exploration and new sources of energy. congress at the present time is locked up in a conference. in which i share. between the house and the senate on energy. so far hard decisions have been reached at all that would in any way call upon americans to conserve and certainly hing in the way of producing more of the commodity on stream. that has pretty much been the record of congress as a whole. the only hard decisions that have been made in the last 2 years are the democrats have proposed a tax on gasoline to achieve that conservation and the republicans have proposed a tariff on oil imports to achieve that conservation. in the first instance. i say that rationing by price is  exactly the american way to go about resolving the demand end of the equation. if we have to conserve. then why should we  do so with each person taking on his shoulders that portion of the burden of the solution which he is best equipped to handle. which means the better off you are. the more the burden you take on your shoulders. do  go ahead and turn to poor americans. elderly americans. and americans on fixed incomes. and lower than the moderateincome americans. and say. "we are going to put the price so high that you will be unable to buy the commodity. therefore. the rest of us can lead our life style. the majority of americans can lead their life style unimpeded. unchanged." so that is the first suggestion that come forth. both from the president and from congress. one totally opposed to our traditions about resolving a national crisis in a national way. so. as i stand in this chamber today. there has been effort whatsoever to bring about mandatory conservation or conservation that would fall equally upon the shoulders of all americans. how in gods name can you affect the price of this commodity unless you reduce the demand. the voluntary measures that have been proposed initially by the president fell flat on their face. the law enacted by congress calling for a 55mileperhour speed limit. believe me. is disobeyed. it is more hoed in the breach than in persons obeying. there has been effect at conservation. either voluntarily or in a mandatory way. first of all. it is  the law of supply. it is  the law of demand. it is the law of supply and demand that will determine the price. hing has been done by congress or by the president as to the demand end of that equation.  we get to the business of supply. what has congress done to encourage greater supplies of the commodity. it has withdrawn every incentive for private enterprise to do that job. i suppose this is a philosophical matter. whether you are talking about the oil depletion allowances or control or what have you that might be worthy climbing at some point in our history. but it seems a little silly to me that in the midst of the energy crisis we choose that time to discourage exploration. that has been the contribution. however. of the congress of the united states. so. .s to the supply end of the equation. hing has been done by congress. several weeks ago. the international group on energy met. these are nations friendly to the united states.  the opec group. they had a ranking as to who had done the most since the crisis to resolve the energy problem. and the united states was at the bottom of the list. is it should be. here we are being evaluated  by republicans.  by democrats.  by liberal or conservative columnists. but. rather. by an impartial group on the outside. as to what various nations have done to resolve their problem. and we are at the bottom of the heap. there is  a person in this chamber  in the white house  in any aspect of this government who does  k that the government has  responded in any way to the energy crisis created 2 years ago. i can blame the american people. because as i walk throughout my state of connecticut. i find a willingness on their part to sacrifice. all they want to do is to hear the call of leadership asking them to sacrifice. asking them to put their shoulders to the wheel. all they get from "leadership" in this nation is a lot of political sparring around while unemployment increases and the price of fuel continues to soar and the shortages are threatened for the future. i have debated this issue on the floor of the senate with many of my colleagues for many months. i recall the last debate was just before the summer recess. one of numerous recesses we take while we still search for a solution to the problem. be it in the halls of the senate or under the palm trees of some exotic island. i recall that in the last debatethis was back in augustwe were going to tell the opec nations what to do visavis their pricing policy. that was the way we were going to bring the price down. i do  k who made the statement or who spoke to them. but a couple of weeks ago the opec nations jacked the price up. and they will keep doing it until this nation responds. apparently. there is sense of urgency among the people in congress or in the white house to get this problem behind us. but there sure as heck is when it comes to the people in my state who are unemployed. and it can be attributed directly to the failure of congress to act. i understand that we had two votes scheduled in the senate this aftern. i understand that because a great number of my colleagues are  in town. we are going to postpone those votes until tomorrow. there it is in a nutshell. these are only two votes we have postponed one day. but you can track that attitude straight through the whole energy crisis. we have postponed and postponed and postponed. the net result is that we are better off todayin fact. we are worse offthan we were 2 years ago. i think it is incumbent upon every senator and representative to tell his constituents that. if we had an embargo tomorrow. the devastation that would be wreaked upon our ecoy. upon the motorists. and upon the homeowners would be far worse than it was 2 years ago. we are far less equipped to handle an embargo. in light of our increased demand of today. than we were 2 years ago. i make bones about the fact that i feel that we need mandatory conservationyes. rationing. that is the only fair way to handle it.  the world war ii system that is constantly thrown out as a fear tactic by some. but a mandatory system. a system of law. which fairly apportions the burden of conservation on the shoulders of all of us. i realize .that that philosophy grates against my republican and conservative friends. but at least it faces up to the demand end of the equation. yes. i am for decontrol because i want more oil and gas. and i want to encourage people to find it. and that grates against the philosophy of my democratic and liberal friends. but i do  k any other way to achieve that supply. unless we eliminate the oil companies and put the united states into the oil business. i say. thanks. to that. i saw a bumper sticker the other day that read something like this: "if you like our national postal system. youll love nationalized oil." ody wants to face up to the hard truth of conservation or of allowing a free market to operate. because they are afraid they are going to lose their traditional political constituencies. politics in this nation has changed. and people are looking for real answers rather than political answers. they are ready for it. but we are  ready to stand up and give it to them. once again. we lag far behind those whom we are supposed to lead. that brings me full circle to the demagoguery which continues. day in and day out. to try to make the american people believe that if you clobber the oil companies. all our problems are over: that ody will have to sacrifice. that ody will have to pay a penny more. that we will be able to have those good. old 1950 prices. the rest of the world has awakened. the rest of the world demands that they be able to feed their children and house their families and bring them the quality of life which we have enjoyed for so long in the united states. the rest of the world wants it . and as long as they are in there bidding for that particular commodity. things have changedand for the better. i would rather pay a few more cents and make certain that we do have a better world. with people enjoying a higher standard of living. that is what is going to eliminate the conflict between people and nations. some people would like the american people to believe that we can get out of this without sacrifice of any sort. that we can lead our lifestyle unchanged. and that the easiest way to do that is to zero in on the oil companies. fineput the blame at the doorstep of the oil companies. i am sure some of it belongs there. but the eye of the american people is being misdirected if it stays on that one target. it should be right here. on congress. demanding that congress stay in session until we arrive at a solution of this crisis. in conjunction with the president. it should  be a republican solution. it should  be a democratic solution. it should  be a congressional solution. it should  be a presidential solution. but it should be a solution. it should  be demagoguery. it should  be politics. and it should  be a mirage.  1. if we act that way. the arabs will stop jacking the price up. and.  2. the people in connecticut and all over this country will get back to work. and we will have things under control. so that we will  have dumped the dire consequences on our children. let the senate stand up and say. "we demand that the price be paid ." rather than to follow a tactic which assures a continual question mark and. at the worst. a bill to be presented to our children.
 proposes to the congress strong administrative agencies charged with environmental protection. it is crucial that the new energy department be counterbalanced by a strong environment and natural resources department. i pledge my efforts and i am sure that many of my colleagues will join me in working with the administration and with private and public interest groups to produce an executive reorganization plan which establishes a formidable presence for conservationists concerns.
. i am cosponsoring the alaska national interest lands conservation act (s. 1500/ amendment 2176) because it represents the most significant land and wildlife conservation program ever presented to the american people. we must preserve as much of alaskas precious and. in some instances. fragile natural environment as possible. the reason for the present debate over alaskaor. the great land. as it is called by the native aleut peoplecan be traced to the 1958 alaskan statehood act. under its terms. alaska was given 25 years to select 103.5 million acres of unclassified federal land for itself. the state had the opportunity to choose the acreage from well over 300 million acres of unreserved federal lands. as in the 1884 organic act. the congress attempted to protect native claims by providing that the "state and its people do agree and declare that they forever disclaim all right and title * * * to any land * * * which may be held by any of the indians. eskimos. or aleuts." but. during the selection process. native alaskans claimed that the law was being violated and that important indian lands were being taken over by the state. including the lands on beautiful lake george. the 2 million acres of shore kn as the th slope and the land surrounding the lakes near minto village. one of the worlds best duck breeding grounds. in response to the claims made by the alaskan natives. former interior secretary stewart udall halted the transfer of additional lands (5.8 million acres had already been transferred to the state. and an additional 20.2 million acres had either been selected or granted tentative approval by the bureau of land management). suspended further oil and gas leasing. and finally imposed a "land freeze" in 1966 until native claims were settled. to provide adequate title to land for the natives. and spurred in part to settle claims before the planned construction of the transalaska pipeline. the congress in 1971 passed the alaska native claims settlement act (ancsa). the bill set aside 116 million acres of federal lands. and it allowed 44 million acres to be selected by native corporations. one provision of ancsa which i supported provided for the federal government to withdraw additional acreage and for the congress to classify it or any other federal lands into our four land conservation systems by the end of 1978. that provision was section 17(d) (2). the need to protect the socalled d2 lands falls squarely on the shoulders of the 95th congress. it is our responsibility to pass a comprehensive conservation program to incorporate alaskan lands into our four land use systems: national parks. wildlife refuges. forests and wild and scenic rivers. i believe we should preserve as much as possible of the great land for ourselves and for future generations. the house of representatives has already acted on this important national issue. last may. the house passed h.r. 39. while the bill represents a good conservation program. we would be deceiving ourselves if we did  admit it was a compromise solution. the final bill included nearly 102 million acres including 22.5 million acres of the national petroleum reserve which was redesignated as a "wildlife refuge"-and 65.5 million acres was given a "wilderness" designation. but. as originally proposed. h.r. 39 would have included 115 million acres and the wilderness designation twice as much acreage. i believe that s. 1500/amendment 2176 comes closer to the original intent of h.r. 39. it covers a total of 110 million acres. with 88.2 million acres to be placed under the wilderness designation. and. its wilderness designation will be applied to 4.7 million acres in southeastern alaska which contain such truly majestic areas as admiralty island and west chichagofyakobi. as well as the spectacular misty fiords and several other areas which were eliminated from the wilderness designation in the housepassed bill. the proposed 2.3 million acre misty fiords wilderness is located east of ketchikan at the southern tip of the alaskan panhandle. it is an area where fiords weave their way back toward mountains which look like sharptoothed stalagmites rising in the distance. along the shore. the grey mists of the pacific appear to blend into the dark rainforest of spruce. hemlock. and cedars which stands in silent splendor. the area is the home of a variety of wildlife. including four species of bearbrown. cinnamon. black and glacierand mink. mountain goats. marten. and muskrats. and. complementing the entire scene are waterfalls cascading down mountain cliffs. admiralty island and the west chichagofyakobi islands are less spectacular. the 860mile shoreline of admiralty island is crowned with bald eagle nests. there are nearly as many bald eagles on this portion of the tongass national forest as there are in all the lower 48 states. and. on west chichagofyakobi islands. sea otters flourish at surge and khaz bays near the forests of sitka spruce and western hemlock which rise toward the heavens. aher one of the many important areas which would be incorporated under s. 1500/amendment 2176 would be the additions to the arctic national wildlife range. and it is here that one of the primary goals of the alaskan lands bill is most vividly demonstrated: the attempt to preserve entire ecosystems for wildlife. in 1960. when the existing 8.9 million .acre arctic national wildlife range (anwr) was created. additional adjoining acreage which is extremely important to distant traveling caribou. wolves. and bear was omitted. s. 1500/amendment 2176 will increase the size of the anwr in alaskas theastern corner by 9.4 million acres. about 1 million acres more than under the housepassed bill. in total. s. 1500/amendment 2176 will add 47.5 million acres to our national park system. along with 56.5 million acres to our national wildlife refuge system. also. 3.04 million acres would be added to our wild and scenic rivers system and 3.34 million acres would be attached to our national forests. the wilderness designation would be given to over 62 million acres of the additions to the national wildlife refuge and park systems. many of the opponents of the "d2" lands proposal which i am cosponsoring have bitterly protested that the bill would "lock up" a large portion of alaskas mineral wealth. however. studies conducted on this issue do  agree with that conclusion. indeed. the congressionally established joint federalstate land use planning commission for alaska found that s. 1500/amendment 2176 would  adversely affect the state or the nation. specifically. on the question of oil and natural gas development. the commission reported that: the bulk of potential alaska and national oil and gas. and other energy resources. will continue to be available for exploration and development purposes. the impazt of continued closure of the arctic national wildlife range simply means that energy resource development will proceed in other areas favorable for exploration. development and production. and. on the question of mineral development. the commission said that: the nation is  presently dependent on alaska hardrock minerals. and important areas for mineral development remain outside of the (d) (2) lands. alaska minerals are necessary to meet strategic mineral demands of the united states. i believe it is important to e that 60 percent of alaskas lands with metallic mineral resource potential lie outside of the boundaries envisioned under s. 1500/amendment 2176. and. this means that 93 percent of our nations hardrock mineral resources are unaffected by the bill. in keeping with our genuinely balanced approach. about twothirds of alaskas 375 million acres will be open to all ecoic activityincluding over 100 million acres of residual federal lands. 44 million acres of tidal and offshore lands aher 44 million acres which have been turned over to native alaskans. and the 105million acre statehood land grant. these areas will be available for timber harvesting. mining and oil and gas exploration. i believe that sensitivity toward the needs of all alaskans has been demonstrated by the allowed continuation of many activities on the d2 lands and by the protection of existing private rights s. 1500/amendment 2176 provides for the continuation of subsistence fishing and hunting by alaskan natives and other local residents. provided they choose this lifestyle. and. established patterns of access to land are protected. including access by motorboats. smobiles. and float plane landings. alaska is separated from the lower 48 by a distance of 600 miles. but. in many respects. we are much closer to alaska than the physical distance would indicate. for. to millions of americans. alaska is a state of mind. alaska is a vision of undisturbed and unblemished splendor. where the pristine beauty of nature is retained. it is aniakchak caldera. one of the worlds largest dry craters. and the wrangell mountains. which are glaciated and adjacent to the st. elais range. and the charley river. the crystalclear river which runs through the hilly tanana uplands. it is the beautiful and dark kenai fjords. the copper river which flows past the glaciers and steep peaks of the chugach range. and the arresting katmai valley. formed by the volcanic explosion of mount katmai in 1912. alaska is clean. wild. free. expansive. and majestic. and we have an obligation to the american people to keep it that way. the vision of an alaska clean and free is  inconsistent with the reality of an alaska open to resource mining and exploration. by far. the greater portion of alaskas 71.5 billion barrels of petroleum lies outside the boundaries recommended under s. 1500/amendment 2176. and. we will still have the opportunity to mine the states extensive mineral wealth in copper. fluorine. iron. nickel. platinum. mercury. and lead under a comprehensive management programwhen and if those mineral resources become competitive on the world market. passage of s. 1500/amendment 2176 would  only be a tribute to the american people. but to the distinguished men and women who have spent so much of their lives stressing the need to conserve alaskas wilderness. these individuals include the late senator lee metcalf. who introduced the original version of the alaskan lands bill during the 1st session of the 95th congress. to robert marshall. the cofounder of the wilderness society who wrote in the 1920s about the dream of a preserved alaskan wilderness th of the yukon river. and to art davidson. the dedicated conservationist who was among the group which made the first winter ascent of mount mckinley. the need to pass s. 1500/amendment 2176 in the senate has never been stronger than it is today. because the housepassed bill is already a compromise solution to the d2 issue. we must have a comprehensive environmental bill to take into the subsequent conference committee. presently. the senate energy committee is discussing all of the alaskan lands bills submitted in the 95th congress and that action has led many people to conclude that a compromise is in the offing. i am deeply concerned about our ability to protect the integrity of the approach and thus. the integrity of alaskas wilderness. i only wish i could say confidently that most of my colleagues shared my views on this important matter. it will take a great deal of work and education before we have real hope of victory.o
