. i am pleased today to introduce an administration measure. the library services and construction amendments of 1970. this measure would extend for 5 years and amend the library services and construction act. which has fostered the growth of public library services across the nation since 1956. this bill would consolidate the present four titles into a single. more flexible program authority thereby simplifying and strengthening federal library assistance and encouraging more systematic longrange planning to meet state needs. the proposal exemplifies the efforts of this administration to decentralize and combine similar categorical programs wherever appropriate and gives the states and localities more flexibility to meet their needs in ways best suited to their own particular circumstances to reduce redtape. while the present library services and construction act requires each state to submit annually five separate state plans for the five separate categories of library assistance it offers. this bill would require submission of only one state plan. covering the various kinds of library assistance. this bill represents an effort to insure that each state agency charged with administering the states libraries will have maximum freedom to determine how federal support for library. services would be most wisely spent. it represents the logical next step in the federal program for libraries. the library services and construction act has accomplished a substantial growth of public library services for our citizens. through title i. public library services have been expanded. improved. and in many cases extended to communities previously without library services. inadequate public library facilities have been remodeled and expanded through resources appropriated under title ii. new facilities have been constructed in areas where e existed before. title iii has nurtured the growth of cooperative networks. enabling libraries of different kindspublic. academic. and specialized libraries. for exampleto share resources and services. states have strengthened library resources and services in state residential institutions under the auspices of title iva of the act. reaching thousands of prison inmates. mental patients. orphans. and so on. finally. title ivb has helped the states and local communities to make special library services available to physically handicapped persons who would otherwise be deprived of library services. because their handicaps prevent them from using regular library materials. clearly. these programs have  only helped strengthen library services throughout the country. but have helped strengthen state capacities for assessing specific kinds of library needs and administering programs designed to meet them. because the states have gained that kind of experience from their role in the activities of the current library services and construction act. they are  prepared to assume the increased measure of responsibility assigned to them by this bill. because this bill combines five programs of library assistance into one. each state will be able to assess the broad range of public library needs in the state and determine how federal assistance available can best be allocated among areas of the state and kinds of library services. in such a way. the use of funds will more accurately reflect the particular library needs of each state. with the elimination of five state plans and five separate administrative systems. each state should gain time and manpower to devote to more creative administration of the public library assistance program. under the bills provisions. each state would receive a base allocation of $200.000. the rest of the money would be apportioned among states partly on the basis of its overall population. partly on the basis of its lowincome population. state would suffer from the allocation formula change. since a grandfather clause would guarantee it at least the same level of funding as the year before the amendment takes effect. funds would be used for the same kinds of library assistance as those supported by the present law. except that each state would decide how much of its allocation would go for which purpose. priority would be given to projects in areas with high concentrations of disadvantaged people. adding a new emphasis to services to the disadvantaged. the secretary of health. education. and welfare would be authorized to set aside up to 1 percent of each years appropriation for evaluation of the programs supported under the act. the amendments contained in this bill would become effective on july 1. 1971. immediately after the expiration of the present law. however. some funds could be appropriated in fiscal year 1971 under this bill to aid states in making the transition from their responsibilities under the existing provisons of their mandate under the new provisions. i send the bill to the desk and ask that it be appropriately referred. i ask unanimous consent that the bill be printed in the record together with a sectionbysection analysis of the bill.
