 sent us a message on this pakistan crisis. and for a very important reason. for when our people came back from the middle east. our secretary of state and our mutual security administrator. it was clear to them. and it was made clear to the whole country that the two strongest bastions of the defense of the free world in the whole middle east. which is an extremely vulnerable area. are turkey and pakistan. one of the keys to its capability to be such a bastion is pakistans general financial condition and her general ability to go forward with her own development program. pakistan is mally a solvent country. mally pakistans balance of payments is good and it holds its own. mally pakistan feeds itself. she has had two very bad years which have  only imperiled her in terms of food production. but imperiled. as my colleague. the gentleman from illis so eloquently explained. her financial situation. let us understand very clearly. then. the basic reason for opposition to this amendment. certainly it is very material in the foreign policy of the united states that we should do everything we can to strengthen pakistans position.  to weaken it. or  to look at it in strictly commercial terms. because. in strictly commercial terms. a strong posture of defense as the bastion on the east of the whole line of the free world in a tremendously vulnerable area. in the middle east. far exceeds in value anything that is involved in the amount we will have to pay for transporting this wheat. looking at it in that way. let us  vitiate the effect of what we are doing to help the people of pakistan by this amendment. and i deeply believe this amendment will vitiate it. one other point. one of the things that hurts communists worst in the middle eastand we certainly like to see that--is that they made india pay on the barrelhead for less than a hundred thousand tons of wheat at a time when india very badly needed helo. and at very high prices. this vitiated every pretense the communists made about helping the people of that area of the world. let us  be guilty of the same mistake for what is. relatively speaking. considering the stakes we have that are involved. small amounts of money. let us  vitiate the impact of this gift upon the whole moslem world. of which pakistan is the leader. let us remember that pakistan defends 800 miles of the strategic border along lukiang of communist china. at a time of great danger from communist china as far as the free world is concerned.
