. someone  so long ago said that one of the things the senate is best at is remembering quietly one of its members who has died. i think this is true. i would . of courseone wouldsuggest that we ought to sacrifice members periodically so that we could have these sessions. that thought would. of course.  enter anyones mind. but it is good to pause in the busy life which all of us lead and have a period of quiet reflection about one of our colleagues and friends. everything that has been said this morning is true. and e of it exaggerated. i remember win prouty when he first came to the house of representatives quite a few years ago. i do  think he had changed one bit since then. he was quiet. rather withdrawn and selfeffacing. at least on the surface. but as the senator from kentucky has said. he had a very stubborn streak in him. if he believed somethingand he did believe some things deeplyyou could  shake him. matter how hard you argued or stormed. he had a warm capacity for friendship. despite his outward diffidence. which was only an apparent diffidence. it concealed a very sensitive and very alert nature. all of us who have kn him for these many years have come to feel enriched by the friendship of this warm. responsive human being. and it was evident to all of us who went to vermont recently to attend the funeral and graveside services that this was equally true of his neighbors and his friends from his hometown and from around the state which he loved so well. his accomplishments here have been many. significant. and lasting. as has been well said. hundreds of thousands of people . and. looking into the future. millions more. have been and will be benefited by his sharp recognition of what was lacking in our welfare and assistance programs. we sometimes used to joke about win as being a modern protagonist of "$30 every thursday." or whatever the slogan was. of those fantastic programs that came up in the early days of the depression. but there was e of that about him at all. he was a hard thinking. clear thinking. careful yankee. but one who recognized. at the same time.  only the justice of the claims of people who needed the assistance that his legislation would provide. but also that. with its wealth and its affluence. there was plenty in this country. to make such provision possible. we will  forget win. i am happy indeed to k that his successor. who is with us today. is also a former house member. with a similar background. we will  forget win for his qualities or for his accomplishments. all of the people of this country are benefiting. and indefinitely into the future will benefit. because of his service here. mrs. case and i join our colleagues in expressing again deep sympathy to his widow and his family.
