 did was to blow up into a major statement of policy an activity which had been going along very successfully under the institute of interamerican affairs since 1942 and under the smithmundt act since 1947.. if blowing it up into such a major statement of policy could strike a telling blow against the communist drive. as indeed it will. i do  see why we here should want to vitiate it. that is certainly  the spirit of the bipartisan foreign policy. the projects to be assisted are primarily those where there is inducement .for private enterprise to step in for development of underdeveloped areas. but which are nevertheless the very basis upon which private enterprise must ultimately enter. they include health and sanitation. education. agricultural conservation and reconstruction. road building. and port development. in short. the mal functions of government. where skill and money are availableand what we are going todo under this title is to supply the skill and a small part of the money. these are  untried fields but rather fields in which we have had great experience. for example: the institute of interamerican affairs is  cooperating with 16 of the latin american governments in a total of 25 programs of technical aid exactly like those in this bill. i shall insert material into the record detailing these programs and showing also that the cost to the united states is constantly decreasing and that the share of the local governments is constantly increasing. the ecas overseas development fund is aher example and it is significant that under this fund $20.000.000 of american khow and technical equipment will be translated into $200.000.000 of projects. with the remainder coming from the affected governments and areas. these include such projects as research in nigeriabritish. on sleeping sickness. building of roads requiring roadbuilding equipment and technical training in the congobelgian. road building and port development in west and equatorial africa and in the cameroonsfrench. a livestock utilization plant in angolaportuguese. and technical assistance to aid small farms in surinamnetherlands. the house will hear from my colleague. dr. judd. of the great benefits of the comparable program for rural reconstruction in china. this program of exporting technical khow should attract especially those who are looking to cut budgets. for it is the cheapest investment in overseas wellbeing that we can make. stimulating other projects on a basis of at least $10 for every dollar invested and often as much as $100 for every dollar invested. if we do  launch such a program. we are likely in a few years to be up against a new emergency and to have to undertake aher relief program or to increase our national defense establishment in a major wayin either case adding billions rather than some millions to our budget. there is ecoy like shortsighted ecoyshould we strike out title iii. we would be completely missing the forest for the trees. the program of cooperative action by the united states with the other american republics has achieved a record of practical and beneficial accomplishment during the past 8 years stretching from the rio grande border of mexico to the andean republic of chile. the agency which represents the united states in this farreaching cooperative work in the institute of interamerican affairs. the institute is a government corporation operating under the policy direction of a board of directors appointed by the secretary of state. it is the successor of two corporations which were established by the wartime office of the coordinator of interamerican affairs in 1942 and 1943. its job is to collaborate directly with the latin american governments in action programs aimed at improving their basic ecoies and raising the standards of living for their people. these programs are carried on in the three fundamental fields of health and sanitation. agriculture. and education. altogether the institute is  cooperating with 16 of the latin american governments on a total of 25 such programs. fourteen of these are in the field of health and sanitation. seven in education. and four in agriculture. cooperative programs of all three types are going forward in only two countriesparaguay and peru. two types of programs are being carried on in five of the countriesbolivia. brazil. ecuador. guatemala. and haiti. each of the nine other countrieschile. colombia. costa rica. el salvador. honduras. mexico. panama. uruguay. and vehezuelahas one currently active cooperative program. programs of this type are presently active in argentina. cuba. the dominican ropublic. or nicaragua. in all 25 of the active programs the work is actually planned and executed by a unique type of governmental agency kn generally as a servicio. comparable to a bureau in one of our cabinet departments here in the united states. what makes the servicio unique is that it is jointly staffed and jointly financed by the united states and the cooperating latinamerican government. in all cases the servicio functions within the appropriate ministryof health. education. or agricultureof the host republic. yet it is headed ordinarily by the institutes chief of field party. who is a citizen of the united states. its staff typically is made up of a comparatively small contingent of united states specialists and a much larger complement of nationals of the other country. its operations are financed by joint contributions of the two countries. with the latinamerican government in most cases putting up by far the larger share. the cooperative programs in the field of health and sanitation are aimed at the basic objectives of creating more healthful environments in the diseaseridden areas of latin america and providing a more adequate kind of publichealth service with special emphasis on preventive medicine and sanitation. the work includes. first. publichealth activities carried out through health centers and other similar facilities such as clinics and mobile units. second. environmental sanitation through the construction or improvement of community watersupply and sewagedisposal systems. third. campaigns for the control of endemic diseases such as malaria. fourth. assistance in the construction and equipment of new hospitals or the improvement of existing ones. fifth. health education programs designed to inform the masses of the people of the basic facts about personal hygiene and nutrition. and sixth. the training of qualified nationals of the host country as specialists or administrators in the various phases of health and sanitation work. in the flield of education the c6perative programs are focused primarily on the improvement of elementary schools in the rural areas and on vocational training. the basic method of approach used by the servicio is through teacher training and the development of better teaching materials and methods. teacher training includes  only the malschool type of activity. but also the systematic reorientation of teachers in service. in the rural elementary schools major emphasis is placed on the development of teaching techniques and of curricula that are closely tied in with the environmental needs and interests of the pupils. in vocational training the work is centered around the development of shop courses. vocationalteacher training. and similar activities that will provide future generations of latin americans with facilities for acquiring skills in carpentry. plumbing. mechanics. electricity. and other trades that are important in the basic ecoic growth of the country. cooperative programs in the field of food supply very considerably from country to country in accordance with peculiar local needs and problems. major emphasis. however. is placed on the development of new agricultural areas through techniques such as irrigation and on the intensification of crop and livestock production. the work includes. first. direct assistance to farmers through extensiontype offices established in key agricultural areas. second. training of nationals of the host country as agricultural technicians. third. operation of demonstration projects. fourth. basic studies and surveys of existing agricultural resources and potential areas for development. and. fifth. the provision of services and supplies. such as agriculturalmachinery pools. bullring services. properly balanced fertilizers. improved seeds. insecticides and fungicides. and hand implements. such services and supplies are made available to farmers on a fee or cost basis in areas where the needs can be adequately met from commercial sources. the work that has been going forward in these three fields of activity since 1942 is  scheduled for continuation until the middle of 1955. under the 1947 law which created the institute of interamerican affairs in its present form. the agency was authorized to carry on its work only until august of the present year. last spring and summer. however. congress reexamined the operations of this government corporation and decided that they should go forward for aher 5 years beyond the previously scheduled termination date. in the same statutepublic law 283 of the eightyfirst congress. approved september 3. 1949congress also authorized an increase of 40 percent in the institutes annual rate of appropriations. since the passage of this law the institute has been busy planning for an extension and expansion of its operations along the lines authorized by the statute. all of the latinamerican governments have been officially advised by the american ambassadors of the enactment of the new law and have been invited to indicate their interest in the continuation of existing cooperative programs or the initiation of new ones in the coming 5year period. it  appears probable that the institute will be asked to carry forward all 25 of the programs  in operation and to launch more new ones than it can undertake with the appropriations that have been authorized. for the fiscal year which begins next july 1. the institute is contemplating a total of at least 32 programs in the three fields of activity and is asking congress for appropriations on this basis. this work. which was initiated originally under the stress of wartime exigencies. has amply proved its value as an instrument of american foreign policy within the western hemisphere in time of peace. while the cooperative programs have brought sweeping revolutionary changes to latin america. they have struck effectively at some of the regions ageold problems and have laid a solid basis for future ecoic and social growth. comparative contributions by united states and other american republics to programs currently in operation by the institute of interamerican affairs (in thousands of dollarsl united states (institute) other tech- total ameri- grand fiscalyear nical coop- insti- can and crative tuto repub- total other proj- lica assist- ects ance 1943 --------- $1.075 $5.661 $6.736 $700 $7.436 ic44 --------- 1.748 8.750 10.498 2.080 12.578 1645 --------- 1.714 7.231 8.945 3.353 12. 298 1946 -------- 1.642 4.823 6.465 5.622 12.087 1947 --------- 2.183 4.014 6.197 7.240 13. 437 1948 --------- 2.157 5.012 7.169 11.143 18.312 149 --------- 2.480 1.745 4.22.5 13.306 17.531 150 --------- 3.156 1.950 5.106 12.990 18.09 total-. 10.155 39.186 55. 341 56. 434 111.775
i may tell the senator from oregon that i. as one of the bills draftsmen. the senator from new mexico . and other senators who participated were as much surprised. the bill was long and complicated. i thought i had read every word of it. but apparently i had . and the language crept in because other acts were being used as models. the language should be excised as quickly as possible. because americans over 65 should  be denied the medical benefits available under the act because of past associations.  should the 2 million americans affected by this provision be subject to a loyalty oath to establish eligibility. as i pointed out during the debate on the national defense education act amendment. farmer is asked to sign a loyalty oath to obtain a crop subsidy. small businessman is asked to sign a loyalty oath when he seeks financial help from the government. and the officers of shipline are asked to sign such an oath when they seek a ship subsidy. i urge other senators to join me in cosponsorship so that this last vestige of the demeaning test oath will be removed from our statute books. i am grateful to my colleague from oregon who hos me and this endeavor by joining me as a cosponsor.
