. perhaps it would be advisable for me to give a very brief description of what the bill does and what its purpose is. the golden nematode is an insect pest which attacks only two cultivated crops: potatoes and tomatoes. once this organism infests a crop. its growth persists in the soil for at least 8 years. whether or  the host plant is present. the only effective method that is kn at this time for suppressing its infestations and for deterring its spread is to refrain from growing potatoes or tomatoes on infested lands. the goldennematode disease has seriously affected the crops in several european countries. and in 1941 it was discovered that it had spread to this country. the dangerous nematode was identified on a farm near hicksville. long island. and is  kn to infest some 6.000 acres of farm land on long island. where. for the most part. it is confined to nassau county. examinations of other potatoraising sections of the united states have. thus far.  revealed infestation. the golden nematode. when permitted to feed freely upon the potato and tomato crops. causes the plants to become increasingly small in size. thereby reducing the quality and worth of the crop in every respect the presence of the pest unchecked constitutes a threat to the nations two and onehalf million acres of potato land. which had a cash value in 1946 of $466.000.000. a campaign to eradicate the golden nematode has been carried on jointly by the bureau of plant industry of the state of new york and the bureau of entomology and plant quarantine of the federal department of agriculture. for several years the new york legislature has made substantial appropriations. and this year its appropriation for this purpose was $420.000. the funds are utilized in two ways. as part of the control program. a substantial part of the appropriations is used to recompense farmers for the loss they sustain in keeping their land completely out of potatoes for the protection of the entire industry. new york state allocates $94.75 per acre for each farmer cooperating in the drive to rid the soil of the nematode organism. at the same time soil treatment. costing about $60 per acre. and research are constantly beingconducted to find a remedy for the disease.  growing potato or tomato crops on infested land is the essential part of the program to suppress the pest. the purpose of the bill is to authorize the department of agriculture to cooperate with the state of new york in compensating growers who sustain losses from the growing of potatoes and tomatoes in carrying out the program of golden nematode control. the department of agriculture asserts that the legislation is sound in principle and that it would be in the interest of the nation to strengthen and enlarge. in this way. the present program. objection has been raised by the bureau of the budget. legislative precedents exist for this type of national program. the department of agriculture has authority to issue and enforce quarantines and to cooperate with state quarantine programs to prevent and control plant pests and diseases. for instance. the department is authorized to cooperate with states in compensating growers for losses that may be occasioned from the enforced planting of cotton. the total cost of this program of production of potatoes and tomatoes is to be borne jointly by the state. the federal government. and the grower himself.
. the senator recognizes. however. does he . that the crisis among theastern farmers is. as the senator from new york has indicated. and that the crisis has been brought about largely because of the present farm law. particularly that portion relating to farm prices.
the senator from new york would like to point out at this time to the senator from south dakota that those conditions do exist  to a substantial extent in the dairy industry area of the theast. and in part for the reasons the senator has pointed out. the real difficulty is that the cause is due largely to the high prices which are required to be paid by those farmers for the feed that must be fed to the cattle and poultry. it is  a matter of distribution that the condition is largely attributable.  at all. the senator from new york has had considerable experience going into that subject. efforts have been and are being made to curtail those costs of distribution. they are being .curtailed. but when it comes to the minimum point of distribution costs. below which it is impossible to go. the dairy farmers and the poultry farmers of the theast are still out of luck. due to the high costs of feed.
in connection with the point being made by the distinguished senator from oklahoma. i think it should be emphasized that neither the national farm bureau federation. the national grange. the national farmers union.  any of the other farm organizations has appeared at any hearing that i k of requesting what the senator fron oklahoma seems to desire.
. although i am voting for passage of h.r. 11612. i want to make it clear that my support of the measure stems from support of the $1.5 billion which the bill provides for food programs for the coming year. as my colleagues k. i do  support the farm subsidy program and have voted against agricultural appropriations in the past for that reason. however. it is imperative that we provide adequate funds to support food distribution programs to feed the hungry people of this nation. and passage of this bill is vital if we are to achieve that goal.
 of the exchange tells me. this is the first in a long range program to attract a greater share of commodity trading to the new york area. licensed under the u.s. commodity exchange act. an interesting brochure. supplied by george elbert. sets forth the purpose of the soybean market. which will be of interest to my colleagues from the farm states as well as from the cities.
. i should like to ask. if i may. a question of the senator from minnesota. first. there are farm problems all over. i read in the national geographic magazine that someone asked a farmer in maine how things were and he said it was the best year he ever had. he is breaking even. my question of the senator is: i heard him say in his remarks that. with the elimination of the cash payment in the stamp program. he anticipated there would be substantial savings in administrative cost.
. i ask the floor manager of the bill a question. i have trouble understanding why we are departing from the existing system. the best i can understand it is that there is too much delay. there are 300 days. there are 600 days. if that is so. i say to the distinguished senator from west virginia. let us tackle that problem. let us get in more readers. let us feed the system. let us have these socalled breaders out in the community. i have great difficulty understanding why the solution should be to deprive the government of its possible defense. i reiterate that when we are depriving the government of its defense. we really are depriving the other miners of their defense. because this trust fund is going to have only x dollars in it. and the drain upon the fund is anticipated to be x plus $300 million. so unless we guard the fund cautiously and see that it goes to the people who are deserving. the fund will be disappearing. and the people who are really entitled to it will  get their benefits. if that is the thrust. to cut down delay. why are there  other ways to approach this. rather than eliminating this step.
although we have few of those large farms or significant size family farms in my state. i share the concern of the senator from indiana. i think all americans do. the future of the american breadbasket. our ability to feed  only ourselves but the remainder of the world. is dependent upon the family farm surviving. and i share the senators concerns as he has articulated them.
it could very well do that. it could very well endanger jobs across the country. the entire 13 percent involved in exports. for instance. as i mentioned earlier. we are making massive. vigorous efforts to penetrate the government controlled telecommunications markets in variois countries with some success. but obviously this type of legislation invites retaliation against that. i might also mention.. in answer to the distinguished senator from missouri. that the largest exporting group in the united states of america. where 25 percent of the income comes from exports. is from farms. farm produce. onequarter of everything that is produced on united states farms is exported.  we invite all kinds of retaliation against the farm groups. and that is why the farm groups have been so concerned about restrictive types of legislation such as this. as a matter of fact. as the distinguished senator from missouri is aware. in connection with the domestic content legislation. which is involved in our automobiles. the same principle applies. 16 farm groups have unified in order to fight that domestic content legislation. and if they were aware of this radical piece of legislation that is before us on the floor today i suspect they would be just as upset.
. ir 7response to my good friend frorr jrhode island. i point out that even 1: )the producerhandlers benefit frort . this dairy program. inasmuch as thq imilk marketing orders give them at advantage over the middle west farm ers in the price they receive for it i those producerhandlers would indeet ihave substantial problems.
. i join the senators from new hampshire in support of this amendment. it seems to me that with a producerhandler the typical situation is a farmer who produc~ers the milk on his farm and then has an outlet set up on his farm for the retail sale of the milk. this is the essence of the small businessman. i find if he has to contribute to this diversionary fund it is just plain  fair. i think the senator from new hampshire has made a good point. it is easy to establish who they are. as was pointed out. they are a tiny portion of the total. 500 out of 250.000 milk producers producing less than 1 percent of the milk. i think to burden them with this extra charge for something they are  at all responsible for is unfair. i think the senator from new hampshire has a good point.*
. passaiw of this legis lation is long overdtue. it is uilso grati fying that steveral xtrmely worthii while proposals haime biit approved as amendments to tile mat hiene hill. these iniludt etablishnt of n program within til elivironmntota l protection agency to assist schools in their efforts to resolv the problm of haztardois asbestos. in addition. the bill includes legis lion which i co )sponsored to provide it modest pro grain of inventive gratls to shools lilt pleeninting plans for improvinent in a variety of areas. i ai also ileiase tiat the bill includes wssistance for schools in promoting dsegregition through i he tst ablistent of imagnt programns. it is lily strongl hope tha lt a conftir tice can be litid and the bill sigittd into law at the ealliest possible iilme.e
so the way you envision it is that any votes today in connection with farm matters would be a sense of the senate or some agreement that we would proceed at a certain time rather than the passage of any final legislation in connection with the farm matter.
so when you say it is a charade. that is the way you characterize it. that is  the way anybody else is characterizing it around here. certainly  on this side. so let us get that straight. and you can go on and on and talk and continue. but it is clear that this has hing to do with farmers. this has hing to do with ed meese. the basic question is: who is going to determine the agenda of the senate. . i listened to the distinguished miity leader last evening talking about the necessity to proceed with the business of the country and he is concerned about the future of the senate and all that. we all are. but i also served 6 years here while he was majority leader. and there was never any question about who was going to determine the agenda for this senatewhich bill came first. which bill came second. which bill came third. that was determined by the majority leader.  we have a new situation here in which those on your side are clearly trying to determine what comes first. let us call it what it is. it is charade. it is a very fundamental matter that we feel deeply about. as far as mr. meese goes. let us have a vote. i am for him. i think most on this side are for him. how your people stand. i do  k. let us have a vote up or down. let us proceed with the farm problem. but this business of concern for the farmers that is being so vehemently expressed on your side of the aisle is just  so. if they want to get on it. let us get on with it. and they have got the capability. but the real issue before this senate is: who is going to determine the agenda. i can remember when i first came here we had 37 members on this side and somebody on this side got up and said. "i move to adjourn." and the majority leader.  the miity leader. came on the floor in rightful indignation and said. "the determination of when we are going to adjourn is made by the majority leader." and he was right and we were wrong. and if you want total chaos in this place. you will have it when the miity. and a miity of the miity. is trying to determine what comes next on the agenda. we went through a very valuable exercise here. an exercise that was bipartisan. we had a committee. a task force headed by the distinguished junior senator from indiana. and he had before him the problem of the senate  being able to get on with its business. and one of the deep concernssure there were procedural matters. and we have  yet wrestled with themare we. going to have a long debate on a motion to proceed. are we going to have filibusters on a motion to proceed. how is the senate going to do its business. one of the problems was so many senators were involved in a multitude of a committees. so they took the 234 positions on those committees and negotiated with the other side. they reduced them. first. they thought we would get them to 200 and then to 203. they ended up with 214. which is a major achievement. the objective of the committee was  to keep people off of committees. it was so the business of the senate can move ahead.  we have a new problem. the new problem is that the miity suddenly thinks that they want to say what is going to happen around here and emasculate the ability of the majority leader to determine the schedule. . that is charade. that is a very fundamental matter and it is a matter in which your leader.  the miity leader. then the majority leader. had qualms about when he was in the majority. he knew exactly how to run this place and how it should be run. and that is with the majority leader determining the schedule. if people want to filibuster and keep the schedule from proceeding. that is their business. it grinds everything to a halt. we can get on with legislation such as the highway program. such as the farm program. whatever comes next. aid to ethiopia. but it is a very fundamental difference that we are engaged in. i do  want the senators comments to go unchallenged that this is some charade. it is charade at all.
. the bill calls for trainbill would do little to break the down- ing of scientists. technicians. andward spiral of the farm ecoy. animal care personnel by research fawhile it does move toward a more- cities. it is intended that instruction marketoriented policy. that transition cover the basic needs of each species will be very slow. and it largely fails to in the institution and practical ways of address the problem of poorly targeted fulfilling these needs. handling approdirect subsidies. thus assuring that the priate to the species. nursing care follargest benefits will continue to go to lowing operations. or other traumatic the largest producers. interventions and feeding appropriate one portion of the bill. however. to the condition of the animal. that does represent a radical depar- training for scientists should inture from the past is the conservation dude instruction on anesthesia. analgetitle. f strongly support these historic saa and tranquilizing drugs appropriprovisions. under this title. highly ate to each species used in experierodible land would be permanently ments that could cause pain. and inretired into a 40million acre conserva- struction in the least distressing meth tiog reserve. also. those who farm ods of restraint for each species and in such land woldfor the first time- other methods of minimizing pain or be ineligible for federal farm benefits. distress. it is intended that details be thus. it would ensure that our most provided on the availability of inforfragile lands will finally be taken out mation from the national agricultural of production. library in cooperation with the naat the same time. it would ensure tional library of medicine to prevent that our best farmland stays in pro- unintended duplication of experiments duction and protected from develop- and tests and encourage use of statement. a provision which i authored. oftheart means o reducing pain. and for example. allows fiha to sell the avoiding unnecessary use of animals. development rights to farmland. thust i employee education ensuring that the land will  be de- it is intended that allpersonnel be veloped. the bill also provides that acquainted with the provisions of this fmha willmake every effort to keep act and instructed to report defidienprime farmland in the hands of family es prormnptlyto ensure thet the instifarmers. rather than simply sellingit tution is in compliance at all times. off to the highest bidder. .one should- be disdriminated against despite these excellent provisions. i . for reporting violations of the act. vetbelieve that the bill as a whole falls erina.y inspectol from the u.s. defar short ofiwhat these times demand. partment of agriculture can be rathera: than confronting tough present on a daily basis. however. choices. itaimply spends more onrthe their enforeient tcpability can and. counterproductive policies ofthe past. should be enhanced bythe institution-
. we might as well talk about this a little while. it seems to me that there is point in doing something foolish here. this claim that everything has to be completed in 10 minutes or 150.000 cattle are going to die is absolutely ridiculous. i think we ought to proceed in a deliberate manner and come up with some legislation that makes some sense. that is my proposal. and i would like to discuss it in some detail.
. we have had a couple of ringing speeches here tonight about how this gets right at the subject we are concerned about and it is a way to get at the drug problem. and there is a lot of merit to that. but. as you k. in this there is a part that has hing to do at all with drugs. "any foreign country that imports sugar produced in cuba." so on and so forth. that is a farm bill. that has hing to do with drugs. i do  think this is a proper place to bring that up. i wonder if the senator insists on that section of his bill.
. ir 7response to my good friend frorr jrhode island. i point out that even 1: )the producerhandlers benefit frort . this dairy program. inasmuch as thq imilk marketing orders give them at advantage over the middle west farm ers in the price they receive for it i those producerhandlers would indeet ihave substantial problems.
. i join the senators from new hampshire in support of this amendment. it seems to me that with a producerhandler the typical situation is a farmer who produc~ers the milk on his farm and then has an outlet set up on his farm for the retail sale of the milk. this is the essence of the small businessman. i find if he has to contribute to this diversionary fund it is just plain  fair. i think the senator from new hampshire has made a good point. it is easy to establish who they are. as was pointed out. they are a tiny portion of the total. 500 out of 250.000 milk producers producing less than 1 percent of the milk. i think to burden them with this extra charge for something they are  at all responsible for is unfair. i think the senator from new hampshire has a good point.*
. passaiw of this legis lation is long overdtue. it is uilso grati fying that steveral xtrmely worthii while proposals haime biit approved as amendments to tile mat hiene hill. these iniludt etablishnt of n program within til elivironmntota l protection agency to assist schools in their efforts to resolv the problm of haztardois asbestos. in addition. the bill includes legis lion which i co )sponsored to provide it modest pro grain of inventive gratls to shools lilt pleeninting plans for improvinent in a variety of areas. i ai also ileiase tiat the bill includes wssistance for schools in promoting dsegregition through i he tst ablistent of imagnt programns. it is lily strongl hope tha lt a conftir tice can be litid and the bill sigittd into law at the ealliest possible iilme.e
so the way you envision it is that any votes today in connection with farm matters would be a sense of the senate or some agreement that we would proceed at a certain time rather than the passage of any final legislation in connection with the farm matter.
so when you say it is a charade. that is the way you characterize it. that is  the way anybody else is characterizing it around here. certainly  on this side. so let us get that straight. and you can go on and on and talk and continue. but it is clear that this has hing to do with farmers. this has hing to do with ed meese. the basic question is: who is going to determine the agenda of the senate. . i listened to the distinguished miity leader last evening talking about the necessity to proceed with the business of the country and he is concerned about the future of the senate and all that. we all are. but i also served 6 years here while he was majority leader. and there was never any question about who was going to determine the agenda for this senatewhich bill came first. which bill came second. which bill came third. that was determined by the majority leader.  we have a new situation here in which those on your side are clearly trying to determine what comes first. let us call it what it is. it is charade. it is a very fundamental matter that we feel deeply about. as far as mr. meese goes. let us have a vote. i am for him. i think most on this side are for him. how your people stand. i do  k. let us have a vote up or down. let us proceed with the farm problem. but this business of concern for the farmers that is being so vehemently expressed on your side of the aisle is just  so. if they want to get on it. let us get on with it. and they have got the capability. but the real issue before this senate is: who is going to determine the agenda. i can remember when i first came here we had 37 members on this side and somebody on this side got up and said. "i move to adjourn." and the majority leader.  the miity leader. came on the floor in rightful indignation and said. "the determination of when we are going to adjourn is made by the majority leader." and he was right and we were wrong. and if you want total chaos in this place. you will have it when the miity. and a miity of the miity. is trying to determine what comes next on the agenda. we went through a very valuable exercise here. an exercise that was bipartisan. we had a committee. a task force headed by the distinguished junior senator from indiana. and he had before him the problem of the senate  being able to get on with its business. and one of the deep concernssure there were procedural matters. and we have  yet wrestled with themare we. going to have a long debate on a motion to proceed. are we going to have filibusters on a motion to proceed. how is the senate going to do its business. one of the problems was so many senators were involved in a multitude of a committees. so they took the 234 positions on those committees and negotiated with the other side. they reduced them. first. they thought we would get them to 200 and then to 203. they ended up with 214. which is a major achievement. the objective of the committee was  to keep people off of committees. it was so the business of the senate can move ahead.  we have a new problem. the new problem is that the miity suddenly thinks that they want to say what is going to happen around here and emasculate the ability of the majority leader to determine the schedule. . that is charade. that is a very fundamental matter and it is a matter in which your leader.  the miity leader. then the majority leader. had qualms about when he was in the majority. he knew exactly how to run this place and how it should be run. and that is with the majority leader determining the schedule. if people want to filibuster and keep the schedule from proceeding. that is their business. it grinds everything to a halt. we can get on with legislation such as the highway program. such as the farm program. whatever comes next. aid to ethiopia. but it is a very fundamental difference that we are engaged in. i do  want the senators comments to go unchallenged that this is some charade. it is charade at all.
. the bill calls for trainbill would do little to break the down- ing of scientists. technicians. andward spiral of the farm ecoy. animal care personnel by research fawhile it does move toward a more- cities. it is intended that instruction marketoriented policy. that transition cover the basic needs of each species will be very slow. and it largely fails to in the institution and practical ways of address the problem of poorly targeted fulfilling these needs. handling approdirect subsidies. thus assuring that the priate to the species. nursing care follargest benefits will continue to go to lowing operations. or other traumatic the largest producers. interventions and feeding appropriate one portion of the bill. however. to the condition of the animal. that does represent a radical depar- training for scientists should inture from the past is the conservation dude instruction on anesthesia. analgetitle. f strongly support these historic saa and tranquilizing drugs appropriprovisions. under this title. highly ate to each species used in experierodible land would be permanently ments that could cause pain. and inretired into a 40million acre conserva- struction in the least distressing meth tiog reserve. also. those who farm ods of restraint for each species and in such land woldfor the first time- other methods of minimizing pain or be ineligible for federal farm benefits. distress. it is intended that details be thus. it would ensure that our most provided on the availability of inforfragile lands will finally be taken out mation from the national agricultural of production. library in cooperation with the naat the same time. it would ensure tional library of medicine to prevent that our best farmland stays in pro- unintended duplication of experiments duction and protected from develop- and tests and encourage use of statement. a provision which i authored. oftheart means o reducing pain. and for example. allows fiha to sell the avoiding unnecessary use of animals. development rights to farmland. thust i employee education ensuring that the land will  be de- it is intended that allpersonnel be veloped. the bill also provides that acquainted with the provisions of this fmha willmake every effort to keep act and instructed to report defidienprime farmland in the hands of family es prormnptlyto ensure thet the instifarmers. rather than simply sellingit tution is in compliance at all times. off to the highest bidder. .one should- be disdriminated against despite these excellent provisions. i . for reporting violations of the act. vetbelieve that the bill as a whole falls erina.y inspectol from the u.s. defar short ofiwhat these times demand. partment of agriculture can be rathera: than confronting tough present on a daily basis. however. choices. itaimply spends more onrthe their enforeient tcpability can and. counterproductive policies ofthe past. should be enhanced bythe institution-
. we might as well talk about this a little while. it seems to me that there is point in doing something foolish here. this claim that everything has to be completed in 10 minutes or 150.000 cattle are going to die is absolutely ridiculous. i think we ought to proceed in a deliberate manner and come up with some legislation that makes some sense. that is my proposal. and i would like to discuss it in some detail.
. we have had a couple of ringing speeches here tonight about how this gets right at the subject we are concerned about and it is a way to get at the drug problem. and there is a lot of merit to that. but. as you k. in this there is a part that has hing to do at all with drugs. "any foreign country that imports sugar produced in cuba." so on and so forth. that is a farm bill. that has hing to do with drugs. i do  think this is a proper place to bring that up. i wonder if the senator insists on that section of his bill.
. i am pleased to join with my colleagues today in introducing the ground water safety act of 1987. this bill represents the second major legislative proposal in this important area. last month. several of us introduced a bill to consolidate and improve the governments research activities in the area of ground water and ground water pollution. today we are going one step further. this bill is designed to prevent and respond to pesticide contamination. this will be done through the use of increased monitoring. standard setting. and requirements to take corrective action when contamination does occur. a key element of this program is the requirement for manufacturers of pesticides to assume more responsibility for their products. they will do this by developing instructions on how to use their product in such a way as to reduce the likelihood of contaminating ground water. they will also be required to collect and analyze data on use of their product and its effect on ground water quality. the word "pesticide" is used here in its broadest sense and includes any chemical used to control insects. weeds. and other undesirable organisms. it includes insecticides. herbicides. and defoliants. the best kn examples are edb. aldicarb. alachlor. and temik. the problem of pesticide contamination in ground water is  just a rural problem. it is  just farmers who use pesticides. power companies and road crews use herbicides to control vegetation along rightofway power lines. roadways. and railways. weekend gardeners all across the country- use pesticides. this is a problem that has the potential to affect everyone. to understand the importance of ground water as an environmental issue. one need look further than their own backyard. lets take rhode island as an example. in my home state. ground water is a locally abundant and widely used resource. when people think of the ocean state they dont think of ground water. but. in 1980. ground water supplied drinking water to 24 percent of the states population. fiftyone percent of all ground water withdrawals were for public supply. from 1960 to 1980. withdrawal of ground water for public supplies nearly doubled. from 10 to 19 million gallons per day. reserves are adequate in my state to meet a substantial part of our future publicsupply and industrial water needs. but we have a problem. because of high aquifer permeability and the depth to the water table. which in most cases is small. ground water in rhode island is extremely susceptible to contamination. in fact. we have already had incidents of local contamination. the best kn incident of pesticide contamination in rhode island is the recent temik fiasco. that case serves as a case study on the need for the bill we are introducing today. in the summer of 1984. after numerous complaints by local residents. some wells were tested and showed excessive levels of temika pesticide used by potato farmers to kill the colorado beetle. the first problem encountered was the fact that the state had equipment to test for temik. so. officials from the neighboring university of massachusetts did the analysis. next. there was the familiar problem of cost. the state had to bear the cost of extensive monitoring and testing. the test results varied somewhat but it was clear that temik was showing up in local water supplies. throughout all of this. the epa and the manufacturer maintained that the chemical could  get into ground water. but there it was. finally. the state had to act on its own to control the use of temik and the manufacturer agreed to put carbon filters in the homes of some affected residents. if this bill had been law several years ago. we would have kn ahead of time that temik could pollute the ground water and use of the chemical would have been restricted to prevent contamination. the manufacturer would have paid for the monitoring and testing. epa would have set standards for corrective action and. working with the state. made sure that such action was taken. a 1984 study by the congressional office of techogy assessment reported the detection of ground water contamination from 17 different pesticides in 23 different states. state officials repeatedly cited insufficient expertise at the state level as the biggest problem and increased federal assistance. in the form of accelerated research and development of standards. as the biggest need. this bill is designed to address that problem and to fill that need. introduction of this bill is a significant event and i look forward to its enactment.
with a load of ammonia that is used as a fertilizer and he is  thinking of a great agribusiness situation where they have on the farm a whole series of storage tanks where they put this ammonia and subsequently seek exemption that is provided or can be provided by the administrator.
. on the particular amendments that the distinguished republican leader has. -we are working -on -those. and there -is a possibility .we can work something out. first of all. we like the sentiment that somebody is ready to offer an amendment. so it goes a little bit against my grain -to say. well. do - offer them. but in this particular case. i hope that we can work something out.
when i have 3 minutes left i will appreciate it if i am ified. . it is a great rationale on which to hang their hats. those who support this program. and i do  blame them. the only trouble is. "it aint so." it sounds good. but it is just  accurate. and they can repeat it and repeat it. indeed. we have all become more familiar with pollination over the past few hours. but the fact of the matter is there is going to be crop pollination. there are going to be plenty of bees available for that. and this honey price support program has hing to do with that. i reserve the remainder of my time.
. it is with -great pride -that i -rise today to pay tribute to a -citizen of -my state. mr. adrian mitchell. on theoccasion of his 50th birthday. which occurred on adrian mitchell. a -9esident of block island. has made foutstanding contributions to the -quality of life of his -fellow citizens.  only on the island but throughout the -entire state. his life has been a shining example of civic generosity and good oldfashioned -island -pride. mr. mitdhell has continued 1is familis 200year stewardship of that piece of americana kn as the mitchell farm. one can help but be impressed  only by its picturesque beauty. but also by the -fct that it is a working farm that helps continue block islands agrarian tradition. n a demonstration -ofextreme -generosity -and concern for the preservation of unique open spaces. mr. mitchell recently donated the mitchell farm to the nature conservancy. -which will manage the property for the benefit and enjoyment of future generations. thanks to this grand gesture. -we wild continue to be able to enjoy magnificent istas without fear 0f -nsghtly development. mr. mitchell must also be recognized for the many other things he does for his community on a dally basis. since graduating from the block island school in 1961. he .has maintained a high degree of clvic activity and participation in his local church. eriching them greatly by his enthusiastic presence. i join all rhode islanders. as well as block islanders. in wishing adrian mitchell continued health and -prosperity. and i ask my colleagues in -the senate to join me this day -in doing the same.
i thank the chair. i thank the distinguished senior senator from. michigan for giving me a few minutes. madam president. i believe the tactics used by . the apocalypse described in this fundraising letter is  familiar to me. the government described in these pages is familiar to me. this is  a description of reality. it is a description of terror designed for one purpose: to provoke a visceral reaction against the u.s. governmentand at the end of the day. to raise money. there are many powerful and ugly words used in this letter. they are insulting to american law enforcement and to american citizens. why does mr. lapierre use them. i suppose in order to tap into the rage that some feel against the u.s. government. to feed that rage. and to use that rage to gain donations. in various interviews. mr. lapierre has ackledged the nra letter went too far. i believe it behooves him and the leadership of the nra to apologize to the men and women in federal law enforcement and to .the american people for this letters rhetoric. and to refrain from this kind of inflammatory prose in the future. i thank the distinguished senator from michigan for giving me a few minutes.
. i want to compliment my colleague. the senior senator from indiana. for the emous amount of effort he has put into this bill. he and his colleague on the other side have done good work. the legislation that is before the senate represents a critical change in our farm policy that will do much to move us toward a marketoriented system. and that is a welcome change indeed. i must say. however. that as enthusiastic as i am about the important structural changes wrought by this bill. i am sorely disappointed that one provision of particular importance to my state and the new england region was deleted earlier today. it was my understanding that this provision would be included in the final version of the senate bill. the provision that i am referring to is the new england dairy compactwhich has earned broad support from our regions govers. legislators. and industry. without congressional authorization. the compact can move forward. and todays action to eliminate the necessary congressional consent means moving forward will be extremely difficult. i also regret that the senate failed to adopt muchneeded reforms to the sugar and peanut programs. while the legislation crafted by the managers revises both of these programs to some extent. those revisions do  go nearly far egh. therefore. with regret. i will be casting my vote against the underlying bill.
. the senior senator from oregon is away from the senate today. i k of his deep interest in the farm credit act of 1971 and of his support for the bill. i ask unanimous consent that senator hatfields statement in support of s. 1483 be printed in the record.
. i urge the congress to act quickly on this measure. as a responsible. fair. and necessary step to offset the increased costs of flour caused by the recent russian wheat deal. and to protect our consumers. independent bakeries. and lowincome people. i ask unanimous consent that the text of this bill be printed at this point in the record.
. these are. admittedly. times of uncertainty. but i must view the proposed senate resolution 59  just as a product of uncertainty. but as a product of utter confusion. and i must oppose it. this resolution. which relates to the freight car shortage and other related factors. represents an attempt to "layer" new authority over authority that congress has previously delegated to the commodity credit corporation in the handling of one of this nations most precious resourcesfood. and the basic resource for producing foodgrain. this resolution does this at a time that is most unfortunate. farmers are suffering severely from the prolonged effects of a hurricane in my section of the countrythe theastern united statesand from the prolonged effects of drought in other sections of the country. feed grain is urgently needed in these areas to maintain foundation herds. this resolution would stop the movement of badly needed grain into these areas. to do this at a time when livestock herds are already threatened is. to me. truly the result of inconceivable confusion. in the theast alone. there are still 1.600 carloads of grain yet to be shipped under the emergency livestock feed program. and there are 850 truckloads of grain on order. elsewhere. farmers are receiving similar assistance under the emergency livestock feed program. let me state it as forcefully as i can: to arbitrarily call for the cancellation of loading orders for 1971 and 1972 grain at such a time is unthinkable. there are also other aspects of this question that we must consider. one is the provision that would require resealing of 1971 and 1972 stocks of grain  when both the domestic and foreign need for this grain is running high. price. supply. and demand all dictate that these stocks should be moved to market . aher factor is the undue government cost involved. if approximately 475 million bushels of grain from the 1971 crop were held aher year. cost to the treasurywhich means taxpayerswill be about $65 million. add to that aher $60 million that it will cost to hold about 475 million more bushels from the 1972 crop. and you have expenditures that neither we  our constituents can or should stand for. especially at a time when the grain is urgently needed to meet emergency conditions or to fill other domestic or world needs. instead of backing this resolution. let us instead call for more responsible action on the part of all interests. we need the full cooperation of all parties to move this grain to the places where it is needed . so. instead of arbitrarily imposing new layers of conflicting authority in the ccc by creating directives that further inhibit the movement of grain to areas where it is so urgently needed. let us lead the way in responsible action by joining together today to defeat this illconceived and illtimed resolution.
. i urge the congress to act quickly on this measure. as a responsible. fair. and necessary step to offset the increased costs of flour caused by recent russian wheat sales. and to protect our consumers. independent bakeries. and all those who subsist on low incomes. by mr. bayh:
. i have to respond in two ways to the comments that have been made. as to the moneys that go from the processors to the government. we all pay our taxes. it does  belong to the sugar industry at all. it goes to many things. the purpose of a subsidy is to take a situation which could result in prices that are too low. in the industry  receiving its fair share. and giving that industry a helping hand. we are talking about the 1974 crop. the crop that is going to be sold under the prices that exist today. so. in addition to the prices that are going to be received for the 1974 crop there will be $85 million in federal subsidies. that is absolutely preposterous. i hope my colleagues will support this amendment.
. public affairs. national council for farmer cooperatives. donald e. wilkinsen. gover. farm credit administration. john h. aiken. executive director. federal statistics user conference. c. edward harshbarger. research manager. farm bank services. denver. colo. peter j. berry. professor of agricultural finance. university of illis at urbanachampaign. richard k. perrin. professor and chairman. ecoic statistics committee. th carolina state university. george r. dawson. department head. college of agriculture. mexico state university. luther tweeten. regents professor. oklahoma state university.
. the time has  come. once and for all. to end sbas participation in farm disaster lending. as shown by its failure in properly administering the program in the past. it does  have the expertise.  the resources. to handle such a program. the department of agriculture does. and. if those resources are insufficient. or more resources need to be made available. then the answer is  to make them available at sba. but to ensure that they are made available through programs at fmha. the secretary of agriculture. john block. and the sba administrator. jim sanders. both agree and strongly advocate that sba should be taken out of farm disaster lending. and have submitted letters in support of moving farm disaster responsibility back to. and under the sole jurisdiction of. usda. i would like to quote from the secretary of agricultures letter: the department strongly supports s. 408 with the proposed amendment to provide farm disaster relief assistance only through usda programs. this will prevent the duplication of benefits to farm disaster victims betwedh sba and the usda. and the opportunities for waste and mismanagement involved with duplication of effort by sba and the usda. as you k. the fmha has over 1.900 county offices staffed with personnel who are familiar with the unique financial and managerial needs of farmers. i ask unanimous consent that the full text of the letter be printed at this point in the record.
. as chairman of the small business committee. i would  pretend to have the essential expertise in the problems of our nations farm community necessary to attempt to resolve what their needs are. this i would leave to the committee on agriculture which i understand is marking up a major farm bill. the question before the senate is how should the federal government respond to croprelated disasters. all s. 408 says is that fmha is the appropriate agency to respond to such a crisis. it is up to the agriculture committee and eventually the senate. to determine what form of assistance. and under what terms of conditions. should be provided. therefore. i urge my colleagues to oppose the amendment offered by the senator from arkansas.
. will the amendments.we are prepared to help. distinguished majority leader indicate and senators can assist by coming to when the farm bill will come up and present their requests. also if he might tell us when he ex-
of course. massachusetts does  have the poultry or dairy industries that the state of vermont has. we do have a significant farm industry in our commonwealth. on january 18. 300 farmers met at spencer. mass.. very much concerned about the possible impact of such legislation and what it would do to the cost of grain. that is why i raised the question. because the senator. as manager of the bill. has indicated that he does  foresee an increase in the cost of grain as a result of taking ccc grain off the market for this period of time. yet the senator admits that the cost of grain has been increasing anyway. and our industries have been injured.  they foresee that by taking this grain off the market to free the freight cars. they will be further harmed. because they realize that there will be a substantial increase in the cost of grain.
we are all allies on the question of the need for improving transportation. we need more freight cars. there is question about that. this is a good provision in this resolution. our problem is that we feel we will be seriously hurt by taking the ccc grain off the market. and one has assured me that we will  get an increase in the cost of grain as an indirect effect of the pending resolution.
i am sorry. establishments. they would  be covered. that would be exposing farmworkers to a greater risk. when the farmworkers are subjected to probably more injuries. comparable to other industries. than . i wonder if that is what the senator wants to achieve. that is why i asked the question whether he would seriously consider reducing he number of employees. so that more farms would be included in the protection of osha and more farm employees would be protected.
. it seems to me that the patent defects in the proposal of secretary brannan. as contained in the bill  before us. have been demonstrated beyond the possibility of any refutation. it is unnecessary to refer further to the argument which has b.en advanced that the enactment of this bill would be advantageous to the consumers of this country. it is true that it has a surface appeal in the sense that it could result in somewhat lower prices. but i am convinced that the great majority of the american people realize full well that this is both a deceptive and an untenable argument. such ecoic legerdemain would deceive the american people for any length of time if the plan were put into operation. even on a trialrun basis. more than that. i am convinced that the american people thoroughly understand that this involves the ecoic fallacy of being able to eat our cake and to have it. the argument that we can afford to experiment in any such field falls of its own weight. if any experimentation would be of any value. in passing upon this legislation. we definitely have before us the actual experience in england. as has been pointed out repeatedly. the government there has recently been forced to admit that the only source from which such experimentation can be financed is from taxes imposed upon the people. that they should have been confronted with a completely unexpected cost of their experimentation should be sufficient warning to those who defend similar experimentation here. in my judgment. the clearthinking and constructive action which has been taken by the great farm organizations of this country constitutes advice which we should all weigh very heavily. they should be commended for their patriotic and statesmanlike approach to what might have seemed to be an alluring proposal. within the last few days in massachusetts. the massachusetts farm bureau federation undertook a poll throughout the state in an effort to develop the opinions of farmers in massachusetts. i am glad to report that i was advised this morning that on the question of the adoption of the brannan plan. in whole or in part. and with reference to any trial run. 90.3 percent voted against such proposals. on the whole. i think it has been good thing that this proposal has been brought before us at this time. it has afforded an excellent opportunity to members of this body to become fully acquainted with the nature of this proposal so that we may have an opportunity to pass collective judgment upon it. i do  have the slightest doubt as to the verdict. with the atmosphere then cleared and with the vast amount of information  developed. it should be possible to devise. with the assistance of representatives of those engaged in agriculture in this country. a sound. longrange program which will truly be beneficial to agriculture and to the nation as a whole. as i understand it. that is the recommendation of these great farm organizations. they believe it to be possible. we certainly should welcome their assistance in this effort.
 of the committee or the members of the committee in attempting to correct some inequity that may exist. what i am concerned about is that we are doing exactly what many have said we are doing. we are continuing a piecemeal approach to this problem when it needs a general overhauling. it is said that the people are  disturbed about it. i represent a combined farming and industrial district. and i k the people are disturbed about it. i am concerned that by taking this sort of piecemeal. halfconsidered proposition time after time. you are jeopardizing an overall and vitally necessary agricultural program. only this month. on march 1. the theast farm federation issued its monthly ecoic letter. it contains food for thought .  2 months or 2 years from . under the title "unanimity." there is the following significant statement:
it is a fact that that was a state meeting. but. the difficulty. as i have seen it. and i realize that there may be a difference of opinion about this. is that those states are encouraged by the compact commission to operate this particular allowable procedure and that the allowable procedure is desired on a nationwide basis. it is intended to set up a situation where there will  be any excess over what will be consumed. ecoically. everyone of us ks that where you have a situation like that. whether it is oil or wheat or any other commodity. if you do  have. more than egh to take care of the demand. you inevitably affect the price.
i think the members of the house realize that the gentleman who is speaking to us has a very large farm operation in pennsylvania where about a dozen very perishable crops are raised. i understand he operates a substantial fleet of trucks and still finds it absolutely essential to use these additional trucks at the peak season.
only those who raise tobacco. and only a small portion of those receive any support. much of that tobacco is raised in my district and i can assure the gentleman that many want part of high. rigid support because they k the inevitable results in other controls which they detest. in further answer to the gentlemans question. may i read a telegram i received this aftern. shelburne falls. mass.. june 30. 1954. as president of massachusetts state farm bureau and member american farm bureau dairy committee. favor american farm bureau position regarding amendments. favor flexible price supports and 75 percent for dairy products.
. new york state is a great agricultural state. it is the second largest dairy producing state in the union. fortytwo percent of the gross income in 1950 of nev york state farmers was from dairying. my district. the 28th. contains the largest dairy producing county. delaware. in the state. in addition. in 1950. 18 percent of the gross income to new york farmers was from poultry. 10.5 percent was from cattle and calves. almost all of the latter being dairy cattle and calves. new york is a deficit grainproducing area. the 1950 census shows that our farmers bought $170 million worth of feed for livestock and poultry. this was the single greatest expenditure for our farmers. exceeding machine hire and cash payments for hired labor. the second largest expenditure. this indicates the extent to which our farmers must purchase feed grains from other areasthey produce all the pasture and about all the hay they require. as everyone ks. dairy farmers are losing part of their markets because of pricing. united states department of agriculture figures. collected over a long period of years. show that the volume of sales of dairy products increase as the price goes down and the volume of sales goes down as prices go up. there are huge surpluses of some dairy products. the sale of whole milk is  the volume it would be if the price to the consumer were lower. dairymen in my area would like to increase the volume of sales of whole milk and of other dairy products. they are making great efforts to increase such sales. they have explored every possibility to supply the necessary feed grains. and it is obviously impossible that they can ever become selfsufficient in this particular area. they are stymied by unrealistic prices for mixed feeds. in spite of the fact that there are huge surpluses of feed grains. the price of corn is maintained at artificially high levels by rigid 90 percent of parity price supports. this is a major factor in the costprice squeeze affecting the dairy and poultry farmers in my district. they k that such unrealistic fixed prices send commodities into storage rather than into consumption. they k that surplus conditions have depressed price supports on processed dairy products from 90 to 75 percent of parity. but that in spite of surpluses. corn is supported at 90 percent of parity. in 1952. in the central theasts dairy area. operators and families received an estimated average of 55 cents an hour. but case grain corn belt farmers and families received an estimated average of $2.29 per hour. obviously an adjustment needs to be made. it just as obviously can be made by maintaining 90 percent of parity price supports on corn. farm markets must be expanded. it is most difficult to try to expand them and maintain unrealistic price supports at the same time. mandatory price supports on the basic commodities should  be extended. rather. the variable price support program should be permitted to function. and should be given a fair trial. percent of cash receipts from various agricultural commodities. new york. 1930. 1940. and 1950 commodity (ranked according to importance in 1950) livestock and products 0------ 67.1 dairy products ----------eggs -------------------cattle. calves ------------chickens. including broilers ---------------hog ------------------turkeys ................. sheep. lambs ----------wool -----. ------...... other poultry ----------other -----------------crops ----------------------field crops: potatoes -------------ohay ---------------wheat -------------dry edible beans ----oats ----------------corn --------------buckwheat ----------truck crops ---------other 3 ------------fruits: apples --------------grapes -----------cherries ....... strawberries ---------peaches -------------p ears ---------------other berries ------o ther -------------maple sirun. sugar ------percent of cash income from farm marketings 44.8 9.1 6.8 3. 7 1.0 .2 .5 .2 (i) .8 32.9 69.3 45. 8 9.3 7.4 3.5 1.0 .4 .4 .2 1.2 .1 30. 7 72.5 42. 7 11.1 10. 5 4.1 .9 .8 .2 .i 1.8 .3 27. 5 otherforestproduets . . 1.8 1.4 1.4 greenhouse. nursery .. . 5.4 4.9 total. all commodities..- 100.0 100.0 100.0 included with "other." * honey. horses. beeswax. * rye. barley. tobacco. soybeans. alsike. and red clover seed. 4 plums. cranberries. quinces. a less than 0.05 percent. source: calculated from data published in the farm income situation. june 1951. and cash receipts from farming. by statesand commodities. 192444. january 1946. bureau of agricultural ecoics. united states department of agriculture. american farm bureau federation. chicago. ill.. sept. 30. 1951.
 with any lack of sincerity or interest in the welfare of agriculture. i have that interest. and i think everyone on the floor has that interest. but i do insist that we should look at the picture that is presented to us at this moment. further. i would like to say what the gentlewoman from new york said has a great deal of merit to it. if we are going to provide support for one segment of our agriculture certainly we ought to see that the other segments of our agriculture should receive fair and equal treatment. something has been said about the attitude of the farm bureau. i would like to read to you a portion of a telegram i have received just since i came on the floor from the massachusetts farm bureau: we are disturbed at reports of compromise on the farm bill. to continue high supports is  compromise but surrender. a great deal has been said as to how the existing program affects 25 million farmers. i represent a district with substantial agricultural production. in new england we have a very real agricultural activity. most of those people are  receiving any benefit whatsoever out of the existing program. they are being hurt by it. and we k it. that is true of most of the people in the theast who are engaged in agriculture. as the gentleman from pennsylvania
. when i came on the floor of the house today i had intention whatever of referring to the matter i am going to speak about briefly at this time. i am  a member of the committee on agriculture and i am  an expert in the field of agriculture. but at least i read the newspapers and i listen to those i think do k something about the situation as it exists. i k that it is against the rules of the house to comment specifically on anything that happens in the other body. i am sure we are all aware of the fact that the record is available to us and we can follow what has been happening and k what the situation is. for quick reference may i refer to pages 5061. 5062. 5064. 5069. 5070. 5071. and 5073 of the record of monday. march 19. 1956. i was rather disappointed to have it indicated that we would have difficulty in finding out what may confront us in the next weeks or months in terms of adequate farm legislation. i think most of us k exactly what that will be. i want to quote from a telegram i received a few minutes ago from a resident of massachusetts. who does k what he is talking about and who is an expert in the field. i read one sentence: the nation would be better off with farm legislation than the bill as it  stands. i think we had better heed the words of these people who are sincerely interested in the future of agriculture rather than of those whose primary interest is in the political aspects that may confront us.
 and secretary benson in their efforts to bring such a program into existence in the near future. the gentleman from new york asked a reasonable question as to how much additional this feed grain provision would cost the dairy farmers of new york state. referring to the estimate of $32 million annually made at the time the legislation. which was vetoed. was before us. i heard one reply specifically to his question. but i doubt if anyone would deny that this provision in the conference report will impose upon the dairy farmers of new york state several additional millions of dollars each year as long as it prevails as law. it certainly will amount to much more than $32 million added costs annually for such farmers in the states of massachusetts. maine. new hampshire. vermont. rhode island. connecticut. pennsylvania. and new jersey. all deficit feed areas. as is new york. beyond that will be millions of more dollars annually for all those who are engaged in poultry raising in new england. new jersey. new york. and pennsylvania. frequently it is thought by some that agriculture in the theast is unimportant. a few comparative statistics illustrate how fallacious such a conclusion is. . in 1952. the last date availble. there were 3.036.000 milk cows on farms in the theast. at that time. there were 2.316.000 milk cows on farms in the 5 states of texas. louisiana. mississippi. alabama. and florida. or 720.000 fewer than those in the theast. in 1954. the preliminary statistics showed 80.582.000 chickens on farms in the theast. in that year. there were 60.533.000 chickens in the 14 states of montana. idaho. wyoming. colorado. new mexico. arizona. utah. nevada. tennessee. alabama. mississippi. arkansas. louisiana. and oklahoma. it is  difficult to compare the benefits which have been paid under federal law in years past in these states or to estimate those which would be paid there under the terms of this conference report. i regret that there should be any feeling that objections to this report are  valid. but i do believe that those who can support it have a clear right to call attention to the inequities involved and to continue to urge that they be removed promptly from the national agricultural program.
. merely in an effort to help define the limitations of the proposed act referring to the questions raised a few minutes ago. am i to understand that the proposed act would apply equally to tangible personal property. as well as to tangible real property. and therefore would apply to crops and cattle. although the colloquy indicated that it did  apply to cattle and crops. as well as to real estate.
i understood the senator to say a little earlier that the indirect effect of the passage of the measure probably would be to increase the price of wheat and the price of corn. would  the measure more directly affect the price of wheat and the price of corn than the measure which the senator supported. to authorize the commodity credit corporation to sell a certain supply of wheat. would tend to hold down the price of wheat.
it has been my impression that. running throughout this argument. there has been an attempt to urge antiinflationary steps and that the sale of 125.000.000 bushels of wheat was thrown in with other measures as a part of the antiinflationary policy. whereas this particular bill would operate in reverse so far as that trend is concerned.
is the senator willing to state his opinion relative to the possibility of increasing production per man so as to meet the need to which he has referred. there is a shortage of manpower in the army. on the farm. and in the industries of the nation. in order to meet the manpower problem on the farm we must do one of two things. we must either take men from industry or increase production per man in industry and on the farm. i am aware that the truman committee has been conducting investigations relative to the problem. and i should appreciate it if the senator from missouri would give us some expression of his thought concerning the possibility of increasing production in industry to bridge the gap to which reference has been made.
. i offer for myself and mr. mcgovern an amendment to h.r. 9811. the proposed food and agriculture act of 1965. our amendment would amend the agriculture marketing act of 1937 to authorize an egg marketing order. such an order would provide for allocation among table egg producers of the estimated human egg consumption during specified periods. the procedure to be followed is similar to that used for other marketing orders. the secretary of agriculture would publish a proposed order and hearings would be held. followed by a referendum among eligible producers. a majority would have to approve before the order would go into effect. thus our proposed amendment is only enabling legislation. among other things. the purpose of such an order would be to (1) improve the ecoic conditions of producers of eggs for human consumption. and (2) insure the public interest by keeping egg production widespread. in the hands of many people instead of a few. prevention of mooly is the best insurance against exploitation of the public. dispersion is also a protection against disaster to our total egg supply. there are approximately 150 federal and state marketing orders in effect today .covering a wide variety of commodities including fruits. vegetables. tree nuts. cranberries and milk among others. i am told that a survey conducted among those directing these orders indicates that they have resulted in developing order out of chaos. eliminating cutthroat activities in most cases and stabilizing the price structure of the commodities involved. egg producers in my state are in dire straits. in 1957 gross cash receipts from egg production amounted to $92.2 million. in 1958. it dropped to $90.6 million. a loss of $1.6 million. in 1959. the cash receipts dropped to $72.6 million. a drastic reduction of $18.0 million. and in 1964. preliminary estimates indicate that cash receipts from eggs will amount to only $49.7 million. this represents a total drop in an 8year period of $42.5 million. as of january 1. 1959. the number of farmers keeping poultry flocks in my state was 9.200. as of january 1. 1965. this figure was reduced to 3.900. thus 5.200 farmers who kept poultry flocks went completely out of business. a similar decline has occurred in a number of other states. if we do  do something about this trend. we shall soon find a handful of giants in complete control of egg production. a situation in odys interest. there are subsidies provided in this legislation. but there is provision for purchases of eggs and egg products on the open market by the secretary of agriculture in times of oversupply. under our amendment these purchases and administration of this program will be financed by the producers themselves through an assessment at either the hatchery. producer. or egg processor level. this amendment would give egg producers the right. enjoyed by so many other farmers. to decide whether they want a marketing order. i emphasize again that the costs of this program would be borne entirely by the egg farmers themselves. i ask that the amendment be printed at this point in the record.
our amendment would amend the agriculture marketing act of 1937 to authorize an egg marketing order. such an order would provide for allocation among table egg producers of the estimated human egg consumption during specified periods. the procedure to be followed is similar to that used for other marketing orders. the secretary of agriculture would publish a proposed order and hearings would be held. followed by a referendum among eligible producers. a majority would have to approve before the order would go into effect. thus our proposed amendment is only enabling legislation. among other things. the purpose of such an order would be to. first. improve the ecoic conditions of producers of eggs for human consumption. and second. insure the public interest by keeping egg production widespread. in the hands of many people instead of a few. prevention of a mooly is the best insurance against exploitation of the public. dispersion is also a protection against disaster to our total egg supply. there are approximately 150 federal and state marketing orders in effect today covering a wide variety of commodities including fruits. vegetables. tree nuts. cranberries. and milk among others. i am told that a survey conducted among those directing these orders indicates that they have resulted in developing order out of chaos. eliminating cutthroat activities in most cases. and stabilizing the price structure of the commodities involved. egg producers in my state are in dire straits. in 1957 gross cash receipts from egg production amounted to $92.2 million. in 1958. it dropped to $90.6 million. a loss of $1.6 million. in 1959. the cash receipts dropped to $72.6 million. a drastic reduction of $18 million. and in 1964. preliminary estimates indicate that cash receipts from eggs will amount to only $49.7 million. this represents a total drop in an 8year period of $42.5 million. as of january 1. i959. the number of farmers keeping poultry flocks in my state was 9.200. as of january 1. 1965. this figure was reduced to 3.900. thus 5.200 farmers who kept poultry flocks went completely out of business. a similar decline has occurred in a number of other states. if we do  do something about this trend. we shall soon find a handful of giants in complete control of egg production. a situation in odys interest. there are subsidies provided in this legislation. but there is provision for purchases of eggs and egg products on the open market by the secretary of agriculture in times of oversupply. under our amendment these purchases and administration of this program will be borne entirely by the producers themselves through an assessment at either the hatchery. producer. or egg processor level. this amendment would give egg producers the right. enjoyed by so many other farmers. to decide whether they want a marketing order. i emphasize that the costs of administering the order would be borne by the egg farmers themselves. i should be happy. . to hear any comment that the chairman of the committee might have concerning my amendment.
. i am pleased to join with senators bayh. brooke. and mcintyre in offering an amendment to limit farm subsidy payments to $20.000. this amendment was approved by the house on june 23 but was  included in the agriculture appropriations bill reported yesterday. last year. both the senate and the house adopted an amendment to the agriculture act of 1970 placing a ceiling of $55.000 per producer per crop on farm subsidy payments. at that time proponents of the $55.000 ceiling argued that the objectives of a subsidy limitation could be met effectively at the higher level. particularly since only three people would be eligible for the overall limitation of $165.000. we have had nearly a years experience under the $55.000 limitation. unfortunately. it  appears that the savings originally anticipated will  be realized. according to recent reports. many of the countrys largest farmers have circumvented the will of congress by splitting up their farms into separate business entities to avoid the subsidy limitation. as a result. farm subsidy payments have continued to increase and agriculture department officials concede there will be virtually savings under the new ceiling. an editorial writer put the issue succinctly: what would be the reaction of congress if it passed a law to save $60 million on a poverty program and discovered a year later a group of poor people using clever legalities to pocket the $60 million anyway. i am sympathetic to the plight of the small farmer for whom the subsidy program was originally intended. however. it is the large. mechanized producer who derives the greatest benefits. department of agriculture figures show that nearly 40 percent of all subsidy payments last year went to 5 percent of the farmers and payments of $40 million went to just 23 farmers. it is a matter of record that most small 48059 0 - 72 - pt. 19 - 62 farmers believe. as i do. that the government should get out of the subsidy business altogether and permit farm prices to be determined in the marketplace. the experience of the past year is sufficient reason. i believe. for congress to put a more effective limitation on farm subsidy payments. obviously. the $55.000 ceiling is  accomplishing what congress intended. furthermore. it simply does  make sense to continue paying millions of taxpayers dollars to a very few farmerbusinessmen for  growing crops at a time when those dollars are badly needed to create jobs for the nations unemployed. i urge the senate to support this amendment.
 acting alone. accordingly. it should be submitted to the senate for ratification as a treaty. the very terms of the agreement. setting out a floor of 6 million tons a year but leaving open the possibility of larger sales. suggest the possibility that this accord may be only a first step. it is important that congress should have an opportunity to examine the implications of the agreement for the american consumer. the american farmer. and u.s. foreign policy in its broadest sense. are we committing ourselves to help feed the soviet union regardless of whether moscow should pursue policies that are against the interests of the united states or other free world countries or which endanger the peace of the world. will the agreement allow officials in moscow to concentrate more of their resources on military expenditures instead of improving the standard of living for their own people. will the agreement affect our ability to provide food for other countries which may need it for their very survival. these are just some of the policy questions raised by the agreement. beyond these issues. the agreement represents a major intervention by the u.s. government in regulating sales of grain abroad. our surplus of food is. perhaps. our greatest tangible resource in international ecoic competition. are we. by this agreement. seriously diminishing our ability to bring a measure of order out of the present anarchy in the international markets in raw materials through the rational use of this resource. it is certainly timely to" consider establishing a federal mechanism to control and channel all our grain export saleswhile protecting the american consumerperhaps by using agencies similar to the wheat boards in australia and canada.
 and by leading democrats before him to the farm bureau federation annual meeting a few weeks ago. those statements seemed to reflect a competition in protest that we would never use our agricultural product surplus in the cold war. i ask. for heavens name. what will we use. there is resource the united states has greater than the abounding products of our fields and farms and forests. particularly our agricultural foodstuff. there are ways of doing this without hurting the farmer. we could have. for instance. a mechanism like the canadian grain board. we do  have to and should  put the burden of the cold war on one segment of the american ecoy or the american citizenry alone. this is  right. but this would require a great deal of preparation. it would require a commitment to an attitude which we have  yet committed ourselves to. across the board.  just in one instance or aher.  just in relation to angola or the soviet actions there. so i think we had better  accept the senators amendment on this bill in this form. but i want to assure the senator that he will find the senator from new jersey very much in his corner on the basic proposition which he was arguing just . this is  stupid. it is  blind. it is  unresponsive to modern realities. or progress. or anything else. it is actually just looking the russian mind and heart straight in the eyeif we can look a heart in the eye. or a mind--and recognizing reality. they have never ceased to believe that it was their duty to try to force the rest of the world into the mold which they have accepted for themselves. i want part of it. i want part of any course of action which gives them the advantage that they do have .
. i will  try to detain the committee very long. but i do feel that what i have to say to the committee is important egh to take the time of the members on the last day. i am a new member. and it is  lightly that i would detain the committee on the last day. i am really concerned about what we have done on this wool bill. i represent a city district. in my city district people consume agricultural commodities. they do  create them. the people of my city district need the things the farmers produce. and the farmers need the materials my people produceclothing. building materials. construction materials. mechanical appliances. automobiles. medicines. machinery. and a host of other goods and services. the nation today is interdependent. i say this particularly to my colleagues. from the farm districts. it used to be argued that if life on the farm was  made worth while the farmer would  farm and we in the city could  live because he would  produce the things we have to have to eat and live. but it is equally true today that unless you make it worth while for the city dweller to make the machinery. clothes. construction materials. medicines. and all the other things the farmer needs to get along with. the farmer would  be able to live either. we are each dependent upon the other. i would like to stress this point with respect to the herter amendment. the herter amendment was a moderate amendment. it proposed to continue a plan for price support of agricultural commodities which has been going on for a long time. and which will come up for review in the congress next year. instead of the moderate approach the choice was made  to adopt the herter amendment but for a fixed price. i am much disquieted by that as should be every member representing a city district. and for this reason. here is what the figures show: according to the consumers price index of the department of labor the consumers prices for food between june. 1946. and june. 1947. have gone up from an index number of 145 to an index number of 190. about 30 percent. whereas the average prices for all essentials of family life have gone up only about 20 percent. from an index number of 133 to an index number of 157 (193539100). this congress has shown a disposition to call to task any group in the country. matter how large. when it felt that group to be getting out of balance with the rest. it did that very thing in connection with labor. i beg my friends and colleagues who represent the farm districts to go back this time and to see what you can do to help us city members. and us city dwellers to bring down the cost of living. and to be sure that you in the agricultural districts do  get out of balance.
i have explained my position on it and i think it is fair. in my opinion. the gentleman from ohio has done the best he could. but many of us disagree with him on this amendment. . that is exactly what is proposed in this amendmentthe bill is being gutted. i am  an expert on wheat carryovers. but i say that you are setting up the mechanics. the necessity for a computation which could  be made in the time within which the shipment of this wheat is going to do any good. if it can do any good. why pass this bill at all. the gentleman from pennsylvania is right. if you adopt this amendment you are striking the enacting clause. you are gutting the bill. so this is a field day for every enemy of the bill on the floor.
 but that meat rationing be put into effect only after 30 days ice to congress and provided that congress shall  stop it by concurrent resolution. the need is clear. spiraling costs of meat have been perhaps the most potent element in the spiraling costs of food. in addition. feeding of grain to cattle has aided inflationary pressures on grain. the real pinch will come in the spring. democracy is freedom.  license. as we show by our capability to control ourselves. whether in meat or in rents. when we need to. without fear. democracy will be preserved by its flexibility. it can be destroyed by rigidity. this bill will give us the machine for meat rationing and we shall decide whether to step on the starter.
. i follow the gentleman from massachusetts most appropriately. i represent a very large city district. the key to this farmpricesupport program. i would like to say to the chairman of the committee on agriculturewhich is largely composed of members who are interested in communities in which agriculture is the dominant ecoic effortis  so much what it is going to cost the government in storage. or even in support of prices. the key to it is in the rising opposition in big city districts like that i represent against the high cost of food and the high cost to the people of articles made out of agricultural commodities. generally. 40 percent of the mal city workers budget. when he earns about $50 a week. is  devoted to food. city working people are rising up in opposition. and they want to k why an inflexibule 90 percent of parity price support. why  a flexible price support. why  some attention on the part of the committee on agriculture in consultation with other committees and the large number of members of the house from the cities as to what can be done to bring down consumer prices. and why consumer prices. which the city dweller pays. are. as they believe. being held up by this parityprice program. for our fellow citizens engaged in agriculture this is a most important issue. city dwellers support is needed for farm programs. and farm programs provided they retain a fair balance between farm and city will have such support. a mutual accommodation to each others needs is essential to the general interest of all.
. a particular e of unrealism exists in the .whole wageprice freeze in that due to section 402. paragraph (3). subsection (d). of the defense production act of 1950 the price freeze does  apply to many agricultural commodities selling below 100 percent of parity. wheat and corn are excluded as selling under 100 percent of parity. while cotton. beef. veal. and lamb are selling far above parity xcvii63
ial message which recommends appropriation for 1.000.000 tons of grain at this time and then a survey of the situation to see what else is needed. our bill also calls for administration of this aid program by the eca. "in summary. we urge this food aid on the basis of the relationship between people and people. those of the united states and those of india. in the hope that the deep sympathy which it expresses will further fortify the bonds of friendship between the two peoples and give further support and encouragement to the new free nation of india.".
i might tell the gentleman that i have looked at the parity record and in my opinion the government of the united states is paying up to $2.000.000.000 more a year than it ought to in this whole parityprice picture. so far as the city consumer is concerned. he is being pushed to the point where he may have to be opposed to the whole parity program if he wants to save his skin in connection with the cost of living. i think that is a sad extreme to which the representatives of the city consumers are being pushed by the present inflexibility in the farm pricesupport program.
i have never opposed a pricesupport program for the farmer. especially for the familysized farm. but i do oppose complete inflexibility in any farm price program. and this bill has a tendency to contribute further to that inflexibility and that is why i ask these questions. it has a tendency to contribute further to that infexibility and on a broader scale than before with the added acreage authorized.
. i am informed. that our distinguished colleague the gentleman from georgia [mr. cox] said that an effort was being made to put something over in respect to the bill for grain aid to indiagiving india and in the present overhanging famine situation thereand that i was trying to work out some plan of mine for aher eca under the guise of that particular bill. i think the gentleman gives me much too much credit. i happen to be far down in seniority on the committee on foreign affairs and  at all the master mind he wants to make me out to be. though. i would like very much to be considered as a leader in respect to this india grain bill.  the reasons why this bill has  been brought to a vote as yet have  been much discussed on the floor and probably the question would  have been raised today had the gentleman  raised it. but it having been raised. i think it is very worthy of the consideration of the house. we today hear speeches about how our position has suffered in asia. that the cause of the free peoples has suffered the most damaging blows in asia. yet we apparently fail to observe that while the congress is  taking action on this grain aid to india. we are suffering added serious damage to our position there which might well prove to be irreparable. what is said to deter certain members is what mr. nehru says about his position between the east and the west. well. i think we k egh about political life in this house so that we can cut through political situations like that in india and get at the heart of the reason for this measure. and that is that this aid to india must come as a good will gesture from one democracy to aher. regardless of who heads it. let us remember. too. that the measure is  before us as a repayable loan and that india is kn for paying her debts. the riots that have taken place in india recently and the emous advantage which the communists take from them is at least in material partly due to the fact that india is  yet getting aid from us in grain. which we have the capability to send them. that is what is proving to be so damaging to our position in the far east currently. let us  forget that there age 600.000.000 people in south and southeast asia who are  in the communist column. and twothirds of those are in india. yet. so far. we stay our hands from aiding these people contrary to the great democratic and humanitarian traditions of the united states. and at the same time we talk about building up our position in asia. competition is what counts in this world. as well as other factors. and we have competition in respect to giving food aid to india. because the chinese communists and the soviet russians are moving in where we are leaving a vacuum. they are trying to make their deals with india today. communist china for 100.000 tons of rice. and soviet russia for 1.000.000 tons of wheat. and what kind of deals are they making. we k that people who are desperate for food will make any kind of deals in order to get them food. the communists will fasten the halter right around the neck of india if we let them. russia is  trying to tie up all the burlap available in india. and thereby depriving us of one of he most vital materials in the world. and let us ask ourselves whether that is going to do us any good in our own grim struggle against communism.  we ought to act on this grain for india bill and it is my deep hope that we will do so  at long last. promptly.
. i have just heard the gentleman from kansas refer to the meat price rollback. i would like to commend mr. disalle. the ops administrator. for that rollback. i think the provision of the defense production act. which deals with food prices. is discriminatoryit is a provision which holds a roof over. the price of food while leaving the administrator free under the act to regulate everything else which goes into the cost of living of the moderate income family. meat prices were frozen with beef according to my best recollection at 130 percent of parity. farm representatives say that parity is the standard they want for government protection. i would like to tell the gentleman from kansas this-
  at this time. i have only 1 minute and the gentleman was  interrupted in his time. meat consumption has increased tremendously in this country because wages have gone up and that is good for farmers and consumers alike. but the american consumers can strike too and can refuse to buy meat. just as those who raise cattle may refuse to ship it to market as we are told they may. and it may have to come to just that. this would be most unfortunate for the raisers. the consumers. and the country generally. and i hope very much it does  happen. but the provisions of the defense production act on this subject need to be revised and the present ops order on beef needs to be supported.
may i continue with my analysis of the situation: the testimony before the committee shows the followingpage 539: the rates of assistance vary by practices and by states and area so as to make the most effective use of available funds. the average rate of assistance for all practices is less than onehalf the cost of performing the practice. the farmer bearing the balance of the cost. so what we are dealing with here is how much of the cost the farmer shall get from the government. whether he shall get 50 percent. 40 percent. 30 percent or what percentage he shall get. and on that i think the evidence from the farm areas is very good. i quote  from the des moines regiser. a newspaper published in the farm area. of january 4. 1951. this very year. and under an editorial headed "heres a place to cut the budget" speaking about these very soil conservation payments to individual farmers they say the following: in other words. most of this government money is used to pay farmers for performing good farming practices for conservation. in the sense of saving the soil for future use. most of the payments go to the higherincome farmers who ordinarily farm according to approved methods. relatively little goes to the poorer farmers who do  use uptodate methods. thus. the acp payments are primarily an outright cash subsidy to highincome farmers.
the distinguished gentleman from kansas just made. a speech a few moments ago in which he said that we are fully able to meet the requirements of this particular bill insofar as graingrain sorghums. milo. and wheat are concerned.
the people of india will buy the grain with money which they either have. because they earn it. or on the basis of workrelief projects which are initiated in india to see that they get the money with which to buy the grain. indigentsand we have had full discussion on that scoreare cared for by free grain distribution through governmental channels in refugee camps. in rural areas indigent people are. through longaccepted custom. supported by their own family group. which in turn participates in the rationing system. in this case we have a loqn. and as to what happens to the money the people pay. we hope india will have money egh to make its payments on time.
as far as the $190.000.000 is concerned. we can rely upon the arrangements between the eca and the indian government to take care of the purchase of as much food grains as america can possibly sell. may i say this. too. there is food grain in essence available primarily only in the united states. the questions the gentleman asks are quite impractical. rhe grain surplus is here. the people of india have themselves scratched the bottom of the barrel in canada. argentina. australia. and new zealand and other areas for grain supply. the only thing the gentleman is thinking about is that they will put this money in their jeans and go into the soviet union and give them dollars for grain. . that is assuming that there is a surplus of grain in the soviet union that they want to sell. but i think we can certainly depend on the ecoic cooperation administration. run by bill foster. to see that such thing takes place.
i certainly do . neither does the gentleman or anyone else. the president has already told us that he is bringing in an eightandonehalf to ninebilliondollar ecoic aid bill. may i ask the gentleman this: does the gentleman want to spend every dollar that is spent to win this struggle against communism with inert and deadly weapons. or does he want to try to win over communism with lifegiving goodswith grain as we try to do here.
let me answer that question. and then we will go on to the next one. i just pointed out that the frame of reference in which he was saying this was the frame of reference that he had right to except any help from the united states or anybody else up to that point. and may i point out aher thing. the indian people were getting 9 ounces of grain by way of ration distribution. they have as a matter of life and death to raise it to 12. they still can make it. nine ounces of grain means 900 calories a day. twelve ounces means 1.200 calories a day. they have alleged that they are going to do it. but they can make it. does  that disprove the idea the gentleman has that some way or other they have scraped up 2.000.000 tons of grain from the corners.
that is  so. because the indian government wants this grain aid urgently. it is continuing to want it up to this very day. and that is kn to all who read and listen. it wants it because it must have it to avert famine. recent food riots in india should certainly be convincing egh on that point.
. here are the facts. and that is what we are after in this debate. i am sure if the house is satisfied that this bill fundamentally should pass. it does  want to build a bridge that is only part way built and drop the indian people into the river in the middle. the fact is. as my colleague from wisconsin has said. that the spring harvest in india of wheat is just coming in. if . we would  be talking about one hundred and twentyfive to one hundred and thirty million people of india on a ration system and 15.000.000 people of india in peril of famine. we would be talking about 350.000.000 people being directly affected. the same news dispatch my colleague refers to say that india  has steady supplies of about 500.000 tons of food grains for each critical month from may to august. but then we find that 500.000 tons of food grains per month means exactly 900 calories per day to each of the people of india on the ration list. or the 9 ounces of grain a day. and that is exactly what we are here to pass legis.5828 lation to correct. according to the facts made available to the committee. it took 520.000 tons of food grains per month in the first quarter of 1951 to provide only this 9ounce ration per day. we are here to debate whether we want to let the people of india go down the drain with an averagc of 900 calories a day for the one hundred and twentyfive to one hundred and thirty million on the ration list or whether we want to help them. so that we are debating right  on this amendment to cut by almost onehalf the $190.000.000. whether we will build just that part of the bridge to take india over the peril of famine. which india can build herself. . what my colleague says is. "let us  extend this bridge all the way across the river. let us just add a little more onto it. $100.000.000 worth." well. that will still drop the indian people into the river just as they would be dropped into the river if we gave them part of the money at all. we have either got to do this job or  do this job. and the facts and the figures. which. after all. are all we can go by. demonstrate that if we leave the people of india with their present food grain supply in their bins they can have 900 calories a day. which is a famine level.
 of the committee on agriculture has annced that his committee will put forward certain amendments to rule out rollbacks on beef. i think it is fair that some of the rest of us who intend to fight the whole proposition tooth and nail should annce our position as well. and i shall put in the record tonight the amendments i propose which will deal with repeal of the affirmative proposition of the preference given to farm products under the price stabilization law as  in effect and proposed to be renewed. members i hope will examine this question very carefully because it is going to be quite a struggle. also let us bear in mind that there is hing moral about this question. in the original defense production act a distinct preference was given to farm products.  at just 100 percent of parity. but at the highest price they reached in the base period from may to june 1950. that means that at that time beef cattle prices were about 135 percent of parity and that constituted the minimum ceiling price. what the rollback is doing is to bring beef prices back to about where they were then and the act provided that they should be given a preference at that time. let us  forget that the whole difficulty in wage stabilization has been the inability to do anything really constructive about food prices. which has made the whole cost of living spiral and unless we can successfully deal with that problem we can successfully stabilize the wage structure.
i find an inconsistency in the gentlemans explanation to our colleague from texas . the little packers can get an allocation for slaughtering but will get this cattle that is fed into the black market. is it better to have a restriction on all slaughtering if we want to avoid a black market.
they will . mr. h. carl andersen. i am sure that he wants food to continue to come into that great city from the farmproducing areas in america. he forgets that there are many farm commodities for which there is support price. the price administrator has the right to place the ceiling at zero on these products under this amendment. i think it is ridiculous.
would the gentleman. or some other member of the committee under general debate. deal with this controversy which seems to exist in the farm ranks themselves about the soil conservation. which is the biggest item in this bill. as i understand it. the american farm bureau federation is recommending a cut from $250.000.000 to $100.000.000. we certainly ought to k about it. i do  want to proceed in any way except one that is responsible. but we ought to k some of the details of these differences. and the best people to tell us are the members of the committee themselves.
as i understand it. these arrangements are made per crop year. and i want the amount that is left in the bill to be adequate to deal fairly with all people who have actually done work. but i understand my amendment would  disturb that.
i should like to say a word about this bill. i concur thoroughly with the gentleman from michigan that there is very grave doubt about the payments here. i think that is the weak part of this program. i think that is evidenced by the fact that consistently for sometime  one of the great farm organizations. the american farm bureau federation. has stated advisedly that these money payments are  required in the amount which is asked for. certainly i want to help to conserve the farm resource of soil. and i feel so does every other city representative. i wish we could say as much about the support we get from many members interested in this legislation with respect to what we feel is necessary to help conserve our greatest resourcethe peoplein the cities. this means to us such matters as housing. i urge upon the proponents of the bill this proposition: this question of money 1i9592 payments for soil conservation is going to catch up with those who are for these money payments. they have to be reduced realistically. i think that is becoming clearer and clearer. i think the idea of reducing them realistically will gather more and more adherents. as is true of every program. it would be much better if those who are back of this particular program would cause it to be reexamined and reevaluated with the idea of themselves reducing the payments which are just prerequisites and which are  necessary for the essential purpose of the legislation. rather than letting others do it.
i would like to point out that the minimumwage guaranty is  underwritten by the united states government. the law says that he shall  be paid less by a private employer. but here on farm parity you are saying that this is an underwriting and every dollar of this guaranty of 90 percent of parity is going to be paid by the united states if it is  paid by the consumer. that is a very different thing. the federal government last year lost $345.000.000 on this whole pricesupport program.
i am about. sir. to explain it. if i may. the federal government lost $345.000.000 on the whole pricesupport program. including perishables. the federal government also has invested in the program right  something in the area of two and a quarter or two and a half billion dollars in commodities which are tied up in storage in one way or aher. it has been said here that the government has  lost much money on the price support for the six basic commodities. what has  been said is this. that in the case of wheat. the government has paid. in other appropriations.  out of the commodity credit corporation. about $182.000.000 this :-ear. which is. in practical effect. a subvention for exports under the international wheat agreement and which the farmer receives in aher guise to the tune of say 60 cents a bushel of wheat because of the pricesupport situation. i would like to get down to the fundamental point of why the provision in this bill proposes to prevent the single standard of modernized parity from obtaining. and why it is desired to have the alternative parities. the old standard is that the farmer could buy with the things that he sells the same standard of living he bought in the period from 1910 to 1914. this was found to be archaic. it was. admittedly. completely out of date. because it took account of the relationship between the various farm commodities themselves. that is. increaseu efficiency of production. of which the public did  get the benefit becauze it had  been reflected in the period of 1910 and 1914. so. the committee on agriculture adopted a new standard in the act of 1949 called the movable standard of parity. taking the average for 10 years. the immediately preceding 10 years.  we are asked  to let that new modernized parity standard go into effect until after 1955. a parity standard which i think is much more fair to the consumer. which takes into consideration efficiency and new techniques. but we are asked to use whatever standard is higher. in effect. the old or the new. that results in putting the support price for wheat. for example. up something like 30 cents a bushel. and it also results in making a very material difference in the support price for peanuts.
he gets the support price if he does produce i am  opposed to some floor under farm prices. i think the lessons of the depression taught that we have to have some way of doing that. i do feel that the changes which are sought to be made here are  appropriate with respect to the consumers interests. that the sliding parity formula is an approach to greater fairness to the consumer. and that the modernized parity formula is an approach to greater fairness for the consumer. i therefore believe that the law ought to remain as it is. that is the basis for my opposition to this bill.
 of the farm bureau federation. said that his federation represents 1.452.210 farm families. which sounds like a very big outfit to me. because that is about 25 percent of the farm families in the united states. he was  speaking for himself because he said at the outset. "i want to make it clear that this bill violates fundamental policy principles of the american farm bureau federation." he then cited a resolution adopted at their last annual meeting. from which i read the following sentence: w do  believe that action to raise the level of price support above that  provided in the agricultural act of 1949 is in the longrun the interest of farm people.  let me read what the master of the national grange said in his testiiy. and again i quote: in the second place. this provision of a dual parity formula is bad in that it is detrimental to a further improvement and refinement to a satisfactory unified parity formula.
. the conference report shows again what i have contended right along that this whole question of agricultural price supports by the federal government and its treatment in the congress  being an adversary proceeding is  going to hold the proper balance between the interests of farmers and the interests of consumers. here we have the whole fixed 90 percent support continued on the six basic commodities. the modern parity formula we adopted in a considered way shunted aside again and a new price support plan added for long staple cotton all in this conference report. i made my fight on the bill when it was before us in the house but lost on a record vote. however. that vote showed that a very substantial miity questioned the validity of the inflexibility of this price support bill. i feel sincerely that this policy will prove to be unwise for farmers in that its very inflexibility has the difficulty of bringing on an unfavorable reaction from the 80 percent of the population who are  farm consumers and whose support for any kind of government price supports is essential. i hope that in the next congress the whole program of government farm price supports may be reviewed and a policy holding an even balance between farmers and consumers may result. some support is needed to avoid a 1932type ecoic break for the farmer but i feel the whole program has gone far beyond that into close to price guaranties. in addition this has had a tendency to cause the whole chain of middlemen and what they charge to be overlooked and this is of great importance to both farmers and consumers.
. i call the attention of the house to the very drastic wheat shortage in pakistan. i have introduced a concurrent resolution stating: resolved. etc.. it is the sense of the congress that the government and people of pakistan have the sympathy of the united states in their crisis of a drastic food shortage and threat of famine this year and that such measures of assistance as are appropriate for the united states based upon the ascertained emergency requirements should be given for the benefit of the people of pakistan. in a reported interview last week. the prime minister of pakistan stated that pakistans entire 75.000.000 population faced imminent famine unless 1.5 million tons of wheat were poured into its fastemptying granaries. pakistans problem is attributable to a drastic wheat shortage caused by a lack of rainfall in west pakistan where most of the countrys wheat is produced. i have received from the foreign agricultural service of the united states department of agriculture. at my request. a report on this situation. an excerpt of which follows: over 99 percent of pakistans wheat is produced in west pakistan. lack of rainfall in the punjab at planting time in the fall of 1951 reduced last years crop 22 percent below the average of the 3 previous years. again in the fall of 1952 there was reportedly an extended drought in the wheat area of pakistan resulting in reduced planting of wheat15 percent less than last years seeded acreage. if the aprilmay harvest produces 15 percent less wheat than last year. a crop of about 2.608.000 tons would be the result. the united states embassy in karachi has estimated that this years wheat crop will total 2.9 million to 3 million tons. a crop of 3 million tons would be 25 percent below the average for the 3 years 194950 to 195152. it is my understanding that the whole subject is  under inquiry by the department of state. the appropriate agency of our government which is concerned. and that suitable and timely recommendations will be made to the congress. the purpose of this resolution is to demonstrate to the government and people of pakistan that there is lively interest in their food shortage problem in the congress and deep sympathy with their reported plight. i consider the dominion of pakistan to be an element of great strength to the people of the free world in south and southeast asia. an area which stands in grave and constant danger of communist aggression or penetration by subversion. famine conditions for reasons beyond the control of the people of pakistan become therefore a problem for the whole free world. it is in our national interest and in the interest of a permanent peace and free institutions that a people as devoted to these objectives as are the people of pakistan should  be subjected to the social strains and pressures of famine conditions insofar as our country can properly help to avoid them. as is shown by the following report. also from the foreign agricultural service of the united states department of agriculture. there has been material diversion of agricultural acreage in pakistan to cash crops like cotton and jute: the acreages devoted to cotton in 195152 and in 195253 are almost the same as the annual average acreage during the period 194142 to 194748. the acreages in oilseeds and in rice also have changed very little although there seems to have been about 200.000 acres planted to jute in 195253 that were in rice the year before. the total acreage in rice and other food grains during the period 194142 to 194748 averaged 40.818.000 acres annually compared with a total of 39.907.000 acres in 195253. a reduction of less than 3 percent. this does  exclude the possibility that there may have been significant shifts in acreage away from food crops to cash crops within individual states or provinces. they do indicate that on a nationwide basis (east pakistan and west pakistan) the acreage devoted to food grains in 195253 was similar to the pattern prevailing during the years immediately prior to the partition in 1947. i was active in the congressional actions which resulted in the passage of the india emergency assistance act of 1951 providing a longterm loan of $190.000.000 to provide india with 2.000.000 long tons of grain urgently needed to avert a famine situation there in 1951. i join with all other americans in being gratified by the fact that this assistance aided materially in a dire situation for india at the time. also that it could be compared so favorably with the meager assistance of only 95.000 tons of wheat which india received from the soviet unionwheat which. in addition. india had to pay for in cash at a high price. i look for early action to ascertain the fundamental food needs of pakistan and to join in bringing about help by our country in an appropriate way as those needs show to be required.
i would like to say that i have rarely heard as statesmanlike a statement by any committee chairman as this one. i hope the house will understand we are dealing with substance and  form and that the rigmarole regarding the handling of this money does  alter the fact that food is in caves doing earthly good and is being spoiled. i think it is the duty of the house and the duty of the president to find a way to use it and to relieve human distress. and. therefore. those who have spoken for and against the farm program and who are for this bill. i commend in the spirit that the gentleman from kansas just stated.
s flexible farm price parity program. because it will result in causing production to go into other items of farm products conditioned by demand and  what the farmer. often though the tendency to continue and  to change. chooses to produce or what this house by legislation apparently thinks he ought to produce. apparently. the farmer is producing too much wheat and too much cotton and too much cottonseed oil. butter. and other things. but a program of adaptation to consumer demand does  mean that he has to let his land lie fallow. there is an emous demand in our country. i understand. for various kinds of dairy products. butter is  around 80 to 90 cents a pound in the retail store. what law of nature says that it should  be 50 cents if it will then move into consumption. it is a fact. that in the last 12 years. since 1941. the consumption of butter has fallen off by 50 percent in this countryfrom 1.872.000.000 pounds in 1941 to 1.206.000.000 pounds in 1952. despite a rise of 23 million in population. what a contradiction. three hundred million pounds of butter in government warehouses and consumption has fallen 50 percent in a little over a decade. why.  because my constituents. who earn on the average $3 or $4 thousand a year do  want butter or would prefer something else. it is because they can afford it under the overall cost of living.
i am sorry to differ with the gentleman. my constituents will use more butter and will also use oleo. the standard of living even in this country still has a long way to go. even 300 million pounds is only 25 percent of 1 years butter consumption. we should adopt the presidents program of flexible farm price parity support program which would in some way condition farm production by demand. second. those in this house who represent the farm areas ought to be for a liberal export and import trade policy. it seems to me members can hardly be for the farmer and against a liberal trade policy. that is an innate contradiction in everything that the farmer interests represent. would seem to represent. this goes for his own need for farm exports and for his need for a prosperous industrial community of consumers. third. insofar as free world development is concerned in terms of the struggle against communism. food is a vitally important element in raising the standard of living. right  it is critically important in this conflict. until other free peoples through technical assistance. private overseas investment. and various other means can come to a higher subsistence level themselves. that on a much greater scale. surplus food which is in store and which can be produced by the american farmer should be used for improving living standards. this is essentially a job which can make our farm production a heavy factor in winning decisively over communism. this is a threepoint program and need only be concerned with the near term. for the farmers position is perfectly sound for the long term. as our population rises. we will be something like 25 percent to onethird short in the production of food by the end of this century. so that in the long term the farmer needs to produce more. what is squeezing the farmer and the city consumer is the present governmental policy of high fixed farm price supports which we must change. because it has stratified the whole production picture without meeting the march of farm techogy or consumer demand and created all this mischief. i have studied the figures carefully and i believe that out of the $72 billion food bill of the american people. they are overpaying about $31/2 billion to $7 billion for what they get. but they ought to spend that $3/2 to $7 billion for more food. this will be important in the matter of what farm products are produced and important for the benefit of the country.
i am the gentleman from new york to whom the gentleman from nebraska has referred. the thing i would like to point out to the gentleman is that the genius of american industry is that costs have been brought down so that the people are able to consume more. i want the farmers to be more.  less. prosperous. therefore. i suggest that in view of the emous techogical advances that have been made upon the farm just as those that have been made in the factory. should result in greater volume at lower prices. i think that has been the secret of the ecoic success of our industry as it should be of our farmers.
. i want to point out. there being many more members on the floor at the present time than there may be later on. that it is my intention. and i understand the intention of other members. to discuss this resolution in terms of the whole farm price policy. in terms of the administration program on that policy. and the opposition to it. this authorization of money provided by this bill is intended to implement the present 90 percent fixed farm price support policy. we had this up the other day in connection with a resolution to cancel certain es of the commodity credit corporation. but this is the payoff on that proposition and would increase authority of the ccc by $13/ billion in addition to what its authority  is in this very field. i thought it would be proper at this time to advise the membership that the whole farm price policy is going to be under debate.
the effort to depict this piece of legislation as something we have to do because it represents empowering a government agency to meet its commitments is an understandable one. but i do  think it quite gives us the story or shows us the alternatives. for this is the old question of the hen and the egg. if any of us believe. and apparently a good many of us do. that the farm price policy of the country has to be changed. and we vote the amount asked here. we are taking the first step to make it possible to continue exactly the present farm price policy because this whole bill is premised on the fact that the 1954 crop will be paid for with price supports at present ratesand that includes butter. we are told: well. wait. gentlemen. until the farm price policy comes up. i assure you when that comes up we are likely to be told: what are you fellows talking about. you have taken the step. you have made the decision. you have decided you are going to give the ccc authority to take care of these crops at 90 percent of parity. so we are rearguing something we have already decided. i think it is only fair to take time by the forelock and to seek to recommit this measure . because it represents the first step in a series of steps which will continue the present high fixed farm price parity policy. some wellmeaning people have said that some effort is being made to pit the city against the country in this debate. i do  think that is right. i do  think it depicts the situation at all. for this reason: if the countrypeople were doing superbly well with this. program. then one could say an effort is being made to pit the countrypeople against the city people or vice versa. but despite all of the eloquent arguments which are made on the floor about looking after the farmer. the farmer is doing relatively badly under this program. his income this year is down about 13 percent. that is. both net and gross. his export markets have dried up to a material extent. and perhaps the most significant indication of what is happening to the farmer is that in the 5 months ending december 31. 1953. $2.5 billion of these price supports were used in only 5 months. and that is 3 times the rate of use of these funds of the years 1948 and . these surpluses are piling up and up and up. and why. because the farmer is being insulated almost completelymany other segments of the country are insulated in part. it is all a quantitative questionbut the farmer is being insulated practically completely from the supply and demand factors of the open market. . that is destroying  the city dweller. but it is threatening to destroy the farmer. it is for the very reason that people like myself believe that a flourishing agriculture requires the change of this program. we k that the arguments of people who represent farm areas are necessarily directly affected by that fact. and we have therefore repeatedly raised this question. we may be wrong. but we have repeatedly raised this question about maintaining this program at this level and asked these facts. so. i think it is our duty to raise and argue them.
all right. i am going to give it to the gentleman. i explained it once before in the preceding debate upon this very question. and i would like to do it again. as i see the farm program. it involves the following three parts. you can speak of adopting the presidents program in part. that is. just adopting the flexible farm price parity plan proposed. you have to consider adopting the presidents policy in whole. that is the only way you can make progress with the program. first. it includes the effort to improve and liberalize foreign trade and the open markets. second. it includes an effort to dispose of farm surpluses as an element in the foreign policy of the united states. this is very essential. because many free peoples are trying to get on an industrial basis but in the meantime have a food deficit. and our food surplus can be used materially to help in that situation. third. to put a concrete base under the farmer in the ecoic field through the improvement of the socialsecurity system. improvement in unemployment insurance. and help in the housing and health situations. all that helps the ability of all our people to buy food. therefore. on the basis of the whole administration program to put into effect a flexible price support farm policy which will. for the first time in recent years. adjust the farmer to some extent to the supply and demand position of the open market. that is my program and my farm price policy. i think it is sound and just. that is why i am for recommital of this bill. this will enable the committee in charge to recompute what is needed only on the basis of the administrations recommended flexible farm price parity support program.
i was coming to the fundamental point which is this: we have about $6.150.000.000 of these commodities in store. as i read the debate in the other body by people who are in the farm group. they themselves estimated that if we realized 50 percent on what we have in store of butter. cheese. and dried milk solids something like a quarter of a billion dollars worth. we would be doing well. this issue can be argued upon the basis of how much it did or did  cost. if it is just. then whatever it has cost is worth it. the only thing i say. and i am  arguing about the city against the country. is that this whole situation is going against the farmer. with an investment estimated  to go up $8.5 billion for pricesupported agricultural commodities which is 25 percent of the value of all the farm commodities marketed in this country in 1952. just think of it. 25 percent the government is expected to acquire and hold. this whole program is ecoically unsound. it is a snare and a delusion both for the consumer and the farmer. it has to be revised. to revise it. you have to start somewhere. and this bill is the place to start it. because if you do  start it here you will be told in a month or so from  when it comes to voting on the farm pricesupport program itself. "dont worry about it . you have already decided it. you have provided the money. so why  continue the same highfixed farm pricesupport program again." the issue is  alone the $8.5 billion for price supports. with all due respect to these gentlemen and the internal mechanics of the commodity credit corporation. the issue is. do you or do you  want the commitment for fixed 90 percent of parity farm price supports.
as i understand. the food bill of the consumer in the united states runs close to $50 billion a -year. can the gentleman give us any percentage as to what he thinks it would mean to the consumer if we did  have these high rigid farm supports and did have the flexible system.
. i heard with very great interest this morning the remarks upon this bill by my very dear friend and colleague. the gentleman from new york who has the neighboring district to mine. i represent consumers. just like he does. in fact. my consumers on the average have perhaps slightly lower annual incomes. and i have come to exactly the opposite conclusion. and this is  any new conviction with me. i have had this conviction ever since i have been here. from 1947 on. and i come to it for this reason. if liberalism is going to be a straitjacket. it will destroy itself. and the point to this whole rigid high fixed pricesupport program is that its time has passed. and we should  perpetuate something which time has passed by and is  directly inimical to the interests of the consumer. it reminds me very much of those very unfortunate mexicans in their adobe huts on the banks of the rio grande who did hing when warned that the flood was coming just yesterday and were inundated and died because they clung to something that they thought gave them an assurance and because they failed to heed or believe the warning. here is the fallacy of this program. rigid price supports make for rigidity all up and down the line. of course. the processors will  give ground on price and the distributors will  give ground on price because the price is rigid from the bottom up. and the best answer is. the minute you relax rigidity. as you did in butter. the price went down. and it went down appreciably.  just a cent or two. it went down almost as much as you relaxed the parity price by just about the same 15 percent. if the farmer were doing well in this situation. then my colleagues argument that the farmers ecoy as part of the basic ecoy of the nation requires the 90 percent of parity rigid price supports would be understandable. but every member that stood up here says the farmers ecoy is bad. that his efforts are down onethird. and that his income is off 13 percent in the last 2 years. the new york times says today that the gross take has fallen 4 percent in farm products and still it is maintained that this is a sound system. there must be something wrong somewhere. and it is wrong in the fact that this system does  give to the ecoy the needed adjustments to supply and demand. because it gives you a colonial ecoy in place after place in this country where they stick to the one crop system. because they are producing essentially for the government supports and  for the consumer. it seems to me that we have here the need for a consumers ecoic interest that is different from the ecoic interest of those in different sections of the country who are wedded to particular crops. i do  blame them. for taking the position they do but if.. for political reasons. one group that has legitimately a different ecoic interest is going to sell out to them. then i think the country is really in bad shape because the only way you get good legislation is by tempering one ecoic interest on the one side with one effectively asserted on the other. here there seems to be a failure by some who should be legitimately representing the city consumer to temper a policy which has gotten out of hand. created unmanageable surpluses which are growing greater at an unbelievable rate and are holding an umbrella over prices and negating the effect of supply and demand inimicable to the consumer and the farmer.
. i rise in support of the heselton amendment. this is the administrations proposal to us on this phase of the bill. flexible price supports have been contained in legislation passed by the congress since 1948 but have been suspended. it is said. temporarily from year to year. and we are faced  with aher one of those suspensions. without any assurance that this is  just one more year in the series of suspensions which will go on and on and on. i think the majority leader has pinpointed that. there is commitment whatever. on the contrary. there is every reason to believe that we will continue to go on the same way if we enact this bill. this whole demand for 90 percent of parity price supports on the part of those in the house who have a perfectly legitimate ecoic interest in this particular field because they represent particular kinds of farming areas i can understand. their people grow cotton. their people grow wheat. and they grow corn. egh has been shown  to demonstrate that that does  represent by any means the preponderant part of the whole farm production of the country. but it does represent a part. i respect and admire them for getting up here and fighting for their viewpoint. and that of their constitutents. but what i do  understand. and what i think the american people have got to give very strict attention to is why there is  juxtaposed to this point of view of theirs. representing farm areas. which i respect and understand. aher point of view. which is that of the city consumer. who emously preponderates in the country. there are some 54 million working people who are city consumers as against 6 million who are the heads of farm families.
 of the committee will correct me if i am wrong. but that 10year average  goes from 1941 to 1951. or 1942 to 1952. the important thing is that this is the consensus of the farm peoples own acceptance of what the parity base ought to be. are we at that base under this bill as intended under the 1948 and 1949 laws.  we are still on the old base. because the old base is higher. and it will take 3 years. for example. in the case of wheat to bring the new modernized parity base into effect under this provision of the bill. this is the point i would like to leave with the committee. because it is important.  only are you  talking. after the amendment adopted yesterday. about 82/2 percent of parity but you are talking about almost 90 percent of parity. because this difference between old and modernized parity is in addition to the 821/2 percent. this is  eliminated this year. it will  be eliminated in the case of wheat for 3 years. so you are  talking about 82 percent of parity. you are talking about percentages of parity which are higher than that. because the modernized base is  yet being put into effect in this bill. so before you shed a great many tears about how unfair this bill is. let us k what is  apparent. and i do  say that invidiously but only in that it is  expressed in the percentage figure.
except that on january 1. 1956. you are  going to put the modernized parity into effect. but for a period of 3 years you are holding on to the old parity as far as wheat is concerned. for 1 year on cotton. and 4 years on peanuts. and 2 or 3 years on corn. your own report says. and i quote from page 3. that wheat is 33 cents a bushel higher under the old parity than under the modernized parity and yet that old basis is the one to be used until january 1. 1956. and then only to be stepped down at 5 percent a year.
. i am very unhappy about breaking into this scene of sweetness and light in which. apparently. the gentleman from minnesota has left us. with all of the representatives of the dairy areas agreeing that it is a very fine idea to raise the price of dairy products including. i emphasize. the price of butter. but i should certainly be derelict to the interests of the people of my community if i did  oppose it vigorously and point out to the house why it should stand exactly as it is today. which is the point of my amendment. i want to emphasize that i am representing in a situation such as this one my district in new york city. and i believe it to be typical in its fundamental interest of city districts generally. it is my duty to protect the interests of those people on this bill. right  the average price of butter at retail is about 69 cents a pound instead of 79 cents a pound. which it was before april 1st when secretary benson first issued the order that the 75 percent of parity standard should apply on butter. we have heard a lot of arguments here about the fact that you have to have a higher parity price for basics. that has been the big thesis that has been propagated to us by the committee on agriculture. a higher parity price for basics. we are  so simple that just because we have a figure of 821/2 percent for basics we are going to assume you will use the same figure for these perishable commodities.  when you are literally being flooded by butter. with 425 million pounds of butter in storage. here is a letter. a photostat of which i have. from a warehouse in jersey city. i would just like to read the first paragraph of it. it is apparently addressed to an inquiry from some fellow who wanted to store butter with the warehouse. it says: we regret to inform you that our available freezer space for butter is just about exhausted. please be advised that we can accept any butter for storage after the close of business wednesday. june 30. 1954. until further ice. this butter situation threatens to be as bad as the potato surplus which was a "scandal"--and i do  use that word insidiously. the shambles that potato situation made of the farm program and the interests of the consumer of the united states we k all about in this house. are we going consciously today to increase this butter surplus designedly by raising the price of butter to the buyers in the retail stores and raise the guarantee to the farmer. when even under 75 percent of parity. which he is getting today. the commodity credit corporation. i am informed. has to take from 3 million to 4 million pounds of butter because it is being produced as surplus every weekday. are we going to add to that. how unwise can we be just in the guise of saying. "well. it is 821/2 percent for the basics. let us make it 821/2 percent for the perishables". i should think that the people in the dairy areas. though i k very well they have their problems too. would feel that 75 percent is pretty good and they are  badly off if they can stick to that and  try to push this thing for even more than that.
. in all humility. i think it is fair to say that as far as i am concerned i have rather consistently argued against high fixed farm supports. i am  trying to turn the city against the farmerwith all due respect to my dear colleague from massachusetts. he has his own opinion. and he entertains it strongly as alwaysand i do  believe secretary benson is. either. i think the whole problem is thisand this has been the basis for my own action in this house ever since i have been here. long before secretary benson took over. the problem is: shall the farmer alone determine what is for his interest in terms of a program which is designed to serve both interests. the consumer and the farmer. or shall the consumer participate in the decision. and therefore sometimes moderate it. change it. or have some effect on it. it seems to me when i first came here. for many of us. we assumed that what the committee on agriculture brought in as a farm program could just be passed. well. it turned out it is  that simple. like some fable. the surpluses just keep mounting and mounting and mounting. here you have the amazing statement in the committee report which says that the commodity credit corporation will begin the 1954 crop operations with $846 million less available borrowing power than estimated at the time the increase to $8.5 billion in this very authority was discussed. then it goes on to say that. in addition to having $846 million less at the beginning of the current fiscal year as anticipated. they anticipate already that at least $900 million more borrowing power will be required to cover the operation during 1955 than anticipated. so that. obviously. evaluation. estimate they make. is dependable. in view of the fact that the program is just running away. all i say is that the city people ought to exercise a little wise discretion here and see that the farmers and themselves do  get drowned either in commitments for the program or surplus commodities. i call to the attention of the gentleman who said that money had been lost on the program. one fact. that there are several hundred million pounds of butter going rancid. but i believe still being carried at full value on the books of the commodity credit corporation. one other point about this bill. i understand. and it says so in the report of the committee. that they will have $8.400.000.000 in borrowing power in january 1955. which is within their ceiling. but they do  believe we are going to get some flexibility in price supports. or that there is going to be any diminution to this program. so they are doing the prudent thing for them. they are asking for more borrowing power in advance. i think the wisdom of the american people will bring about this modest change. to a very modest flexibility in farm price supports and that we can go home without giving this new authority. i wish to emphasize that i recognize the particular problems of the farmer and the hazards peculiar to his enterprise. that i consider it a national responsibility to cooperate in the solution of these problems and that i am affirmatively for the flexible system of farm price supports for that reason. this high fixed farm price parity farm program seems to me to have gone off the tracks and the people who can help it get back on are the city peoplecertainly wanting to and trying to work together with the farmers.
there was a time for the high fixed farm price supports. when 90 percent of parity was essential to this country. for instance. but like any medicine. that time may have gone by. i just venture to suggest and argue that the time has come. because of the farmers own condition. the fact that he is  doing well under these very high fixed price supports. there must be something wrong. so some of us are suggesting some way of dealing with the difficulty. the modest flexibility introduced in the program by the house recently is along that line. i do  think that is unfair and i do  think that deserves any caustic condemnation.
the point is our agricultural exports have fallen heavily. though there is some improvement lately. i think those who represent farm areas in this country had better take a good look at this bill. because if we continue this kind of policy of thwarting imports we stand in a very good position to have our farm exports still further reduced. it seems to me that our reciprocal trade agreement program. which is  perfect. seeks to exchange goods on a favorable basis based generally aside from strategic considerations where they can be most ecoically produced. that has been the policy of our government so far. and it has been very successful.
it seems to me the conferees have culminated a rather historic move in this bill. we are making a new development in at last trying some flexible parity. i worked for it because i thought it was in the interest of the consumer. i think the administration has to realize it has to use initiative and ingenuity both in the interest of the farmers and the consumers in the administration of this program. it can develop this one. in dealing with the surplus. as to which the commitee has also sponsored a wise bill which can result in the disposition of well over a billion dollars of agricultural surpluses for foreign currencies and aid united states trade and foreign policy. also that considerable attention be paid by the administration to efficiency on the farm and the utilization of farm products for commercial and other new uses. with the idea that out of initiative and dynamism may be attained the kind of stability and flourishing development for farmers which we all want. i thank the gentleman for this time.
. new york is the second largest dairy state in the nation. the impact on the overall ecoy of the state of the proposed support price reduction for milk. annced by the secretary of agriculture. could be seriously adverse. especially since corresponding decrease is contemplated which would reduce the price of grain feeds which the dairy farmers must purchase. the coordination of price supports for milk and milk products and grain feeds is the key to this situation. i also represent the largest consumers market in the united states in the new york metropolitan area. this market is a heavy consumer of milk and milk products. there is question that i have supported and shall continue to support the flexible parity support price approach to the present farm problems. i also believe that a great revolution is taking place in agriculture. requiring the use of fewer people and larger units of farm production. and that it is essential to conform ourselves to this revolution in the interests of the consumers of the nation. i believe tremendous foreign policy possibilities for peace are inherent in the -use of agricultural surpluses. so as to enable the peoples abroad. especially in underdeveloped areas. to devote themselves to some industrialization and to enable them to live upon a standard at least  worse than they had before. while some of the people are taken off the land. the use of the surpluses will enable us to do what the communists do with the rule of the sword and whip. which has been so much in evidence in their farm collectivization programs. however. it is necessary to make all these activities move along together. a legal situation is involved. in that the secretary of agriculture may find it necessary. legally. to reduce the support price for milk and milk products. because of the surpluses of those commodities. whereas he may  be able to do the necessary coordinating for barley. oats. and grain sorghums. which are used as feed for dairy cattle. in full recognition of all these problems. and in sense in opposition to the fundamental policy of endeavoring to rationalize our whole agricultural situation in the light of the revolution which is taking place on the farms. i propose to introduce a joint resolution to call for deferring the operation of the reduction in support prices for dairy products while congress considers the legal situation and how to prevent serious injury to the dairy farmers as the result of such reduction. by making an overall approach to their problems at this session. i respectfully submit that such an approach would give the secretary of agriculture. who at this time is under very heavy attack. an opportunity to testify before the appropriate congressional committees as to the validity of his position and the legal situation in which he finds himself. so the congress may perhaps give him some legal relief. which he may need in order to coordinate the price of feed with the price of milk. again i emphasize that. in my opinion. fundamentally the farmers of the country must tell us what they want to have done with the $5 billion. approximately. which the congress is appropriating for agriculture. and which i entirely favor. in order to help the farmers make the necessary transition in connection with the revolution which is occurring on the farms. however. while that is done. we need to avoid. insofar as we humanly can. dislocation and serious damage to those who engage in farming for a living. that is the purpose of my joint resolution.
. i invite attention to page 245 of the hearings. where senators will find a letter addressed to the chairman of the committee on agriculture and forestry. the letter is signed by r. l. farrington. general counsel. united states department of agriculture. the last sentence reads: for the reasons heretofore indicated. however. there is serious question whether the exemption would extend to the handling of livestock in connection with slaughter when the livestock products are intended for other purposes. in an exchange of letters between the senator from minnesota and representatives of jewish groups-
i thank my colleague. it should be our privilege to help the great cities to forward this work further. let us take an example in my own state. if we authorize the program in the clark amendment. new york will receive $225 million in new moneys for urban renewal. through the middle of 1963. that would enable us to add to the $225 million $105 million of our own. however. the total end result. in terms of production of wealth and increased assets to the taxpayers is estimated to be  less than 10 times that amount. in other words. in terms of added values.  only in living and well being. but in added tangible values. the amount would be $3 billion. i can think of a program which should appeal more to the conscience of the congress than this one. finally. on the subject of inflation. this program makes our country richer. it is  what we owe. it is what we have against what we owe that counts in terms of the inflationary situation. i hope very much that some recognition can be given to the problems of our american cities when we are recognizing everyone elses problems all the timethe problems on the farm and in rural areas. we are spending great sums of money on those programs. i hope the pending amendment will be voted favorably.
. i shall support the substitute proposed by the miity leader on the part of the administration. i do  hesitate to speak with regard to this bill. though it is an agricultural bill. when i was a member of the other body i did the same thing. i deprecate the fact that unfortunately the representatives of consumers in this body and in the other body do  feel an adequate interest in proposed farm legislation. there is hing which has greater influence upon the cost of living for the average family. which pays about 30 percent of its total income for food and food products. there is hing which has greater influence upon the average family than the farm program. i think it is very sad that consumer representatives do  speak out about the farm programs.
. i want my good friend the amount availabl. for it. using agri- from new york to k that if every cultural commodities as instruments for wheat farmer in the united states deindustrial production. in the great re- cided to produce wheat as the nations search program proposed. using surplus  1 santa claus. and to give it to all food for the indigent and the distressed. the bakers of new york. it would save as my colleagues the senator from ken- the consumers only 2.4 cents a loaf on tucky and the senator their bread. and the consumers would from minnesota and still be paying 16.9 cents a loaf. though others have suggested. and seeking to the farmer never received one penny. retrain the farm population. even pay- all the talk about what effect the pasing the farmers compensation in the process. sage of the bill. whatever may be the re-
i ice the bill is based upon the concept both of parity and the cost of things farmers buy. does this portend any fundamental outlook upon farm price policy. to which we shall have to address ourselves at this session. or is the measure specially tailored to this particular situation. in which. as the senator from vermont has so eloquently said. the senator from kentucky and the senator from th carolina have been so deeply interested.
my reason for addressing the senator from vermont is that he is kn. upon this side of the aisle. anyhow. as being a great expert in farm legislation. i was really  so much concerned about the tobacco pricesupport situation as i was about any general principle which will apply to farm legislation. in which i believe representatives of states like my own. having large numbers of consumers. have to take a real interest.
in new york we have a problem concerning those who produce wheat for feeding to chickens and cows. i should like to associate myself with the senator from kentucky in respect to at least trying to alleviate to some extent the problems of the small producers.
we have heard a great many tributes to our friend tom. both as to his legislative service and the personal relations between him and his wife and others of our colleagues and their wives. i have aher feeling about tom. i joined him in the house of representatives in 1947. and speedily became kn as the windowbox farmer from new york. that appellation was attributable to the fact that as a young or new member of congressi was  very young in yearsi thought that consumers ought to take an interest in farm problems. because they were the ones whose ox was being gored most of the time. i tried to inform myself on the subject. and i had hesitancyperhaps rashlyin speaking out when occasion demanded. this could have been received quite unsympathetically by the representative of a great farm state like iowa. but it was symptomatic of tom martins sportsmanship and great helpful and lovable character that he was one of those who said. "that is a fine idea. it can only be helpful. it is a good thing." he said. "learn all you can about it. make your contribution. you certainly have an interest in this kind of legislation. and we want to k how you feel about it." i have always been grateful to tom for that advice. i think it demonstrated one of the wonderful qualities of his character. i agree with my colleague from new york . who has said that toms character is heavily conditioned by the fact that he is a great sportsman. i think all of usand i am certain tom feels that way toohave a particular bent. perhaps i am best kn here as a lawyer. tom is certainly best kn for all the great qualities which go into the making of a great americangood humor. willingness to give and take. an understanding that life is occasionally rugged. an awareness of the keenness of competition. but never at the price of unfairness. and justice with understanding toward ones fellow man. so. tom.. you have earned well at the hands of our country and at the hands of your colleagues. you have a host of friends here. as you k. you will always be welcome among us. i join with so many others in bespeaking for you and mrs. martin many years of wonderful happiness and a good life. with the gratification which comes from high service. magnificently performed. for more than two decades.
. i was interested in the extent of the price increase in milk and butterfat contemplated by the secretary of agriculture. the senator said it would take up the increased cost of feed which is contemplated by the bill. would it also take up the increased price which the producers have been strongly contending for to make their operations profitable.
. i shall vote against the passage of the bill. in addition. i think it is fair to say that for many years we have been pursuing policies which do  seem to be leading to a balanced and viable farm program. very largely this is attributable to the "single shot idea." wherein we do  recognize in passing legislationalthough i k the distinguished members of the committee and the distinguished senators who have been speaking recognize itthe interrelationship of the various elements to each other. i believe it would be very much in the interest of the people in my statewho mainly are interested in dairying. poultry raising. and other branches of agriculture so vital to our states ecoybefore we ask them to foot any bills. to see what the whole scheme looks like to all equivalent earcorn source: south dakota crop and livestock ]reporting service. feb. 28. 191. in terms of its interrelationship. insofar as it affects these farm products and insofar as it affects other products. for that reason. in addition to the others i have mentioned. i shall vote against passage of the bill.
the senator from new jersey says there is in the record a copy of the statement made. in answer. to the american farm bureau federation. i think that is important. because with all due deference to the feelings of the senator from florida. which i can well understand. i think many of us would be appalled by governmental restraint in connection with matters of this sort. because if such restraint were to occur. conclusions which thereby would be drawn would  be in line with our position. throughout the world in regard to governmental restraint. however. i can well understand that the senator from florida wishes to have a correct presentation of the facts made and given to the people. and wishes to have a dressing down made when he thinks those responsible deserve it. i wish to make sureand the senator from new jersey  assures me that it is sothat. just as the senator from florida wishes to have open covenants openly arrived at. there is in the record an answer in detail.
i have joined the senator from delaware in proposing this amendment because of the information i have received from dairy farmers and poultry feeders in the state of new york. they feel that it will be very much to their interest. in terms of the consumer. to have this part of the bill stricken out. i simply wished to explain my reasons for joining the senator from delaware in sponsoring his amendment.
madam president. i agree with the senator from new jersey that one would  wish to precipitate action in view of the deep feeling of the senator from florida. we are making grandstand play about the humanitarian aspects involved. we all understand that aspect. it is basic to our discussion. would it  be useful. however. if the senator from new jersey should make a part of the record an analysis of the workmens compensation statutes of the various states which have been researched in order to demonstrate whether such compensation is or is  available. the question also has a bearingand this worries me. tooupon the effective date. we have had some views from the american farm bureau federation. for example. expressing great concern about the date of applicability. i suggest that. in view of all those considerations. we would all be helped by having made a part of the record a careful analysis of the existing state of the workmens compensation laws in all 50 states.
i am grateful to my colleague who has the floor for allowing us to separate the wheat from the chaff. i think ones attitude toward a person must stand on his own record. as i have said. i am in a unique position to speak on this matter because of my views on both subjects. i am grateful to the senators who have helped unscramble the issues one from the other.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks an article entitled "the crux of the farm problem." written by walter lippmann. and published in the new york herald tribune of february 22.
i think that is laudable. i appreciate the senators answer to that question. second. does the senator see anything which would represent a precedent in the action which we might be taking in this bill as compared with the farm bill which is  being considered by the committee on agriculture and forestry. in other words. are we proposing to adopt a part of the farm bill in terms of principle or in fact.
. i call to the attention of the senate that it can happen to us. too. new york state and other areas in the theastern united states are suffering from a drought which many experts consider the worst of this century. in some areas 10 weeks have passed without a trickle of rain. the effect this is having on the states agriculture is emous. the new york state disaster committee in albany has reported that hay and feed crops have been cut back up to 60 percent and grazing pastures have burned out. the drought also has ruined about 25 percent of the states vegetable and fruit crops. gover rockefeller has named 24 counties in new york state as disaster areas. ten named last week were: alleghany. chenango. delaware. franklin. herkimer. oneida. schuyler. st. lawrence. tompkins. and yates. yesterday. the gover designated 14 more counties: broome. chemung. clinton. columbia. cortland. dutchess. madison. octaga. orange. otsego. rensselaer. sullivan. steuben. and tioga. as a result of this serious situation. gover rockefeller and the new york state congressional steering committee have asked secretary of agriculture orville t. freeman to give farmers in these counties permission to use grazing and hay acreage that has been retired under the soil bank and feed grain programs. in addition. the federal government can make available lowinterest loans to farmers suffering from the effects of the drought. the agriculture department should act on this request promptly. the facts fully support federal action to aid these droughtstricken areas in new york state.
even if this proposal should fail. the senator has put his finger on one thing which troubles me. the committee on ecoic development is studying the question . with a view to developing a program. such a program involves other considerations. including- the mobility of labor.  merely land reserves. it involves the training of workers off the farm and their relocation. this is a really big project. i hope our party will address itself to it. i should like to work with the senator from texas. the senator from indiana [mr. capeharti. and others. in drafting an alternate plan which would stand onits merits. and as to which. when we cast a vote. it would  be as if we were casting it in a vacuum.
. the words "never" and " are always big words. so i am willing to say there might be one somewhere. i do  k. but so far as we have been able to find out. there are e. a specific study upon this subject was recently made in south carolina by the southern regional council. it dealt with nine rural counties in that state: allendale. bamberg. barnwell. calhoun. clarendon. hampton. jasper. lee. and williamsburg. the study was made of counties in which negroes constituted 50 percent of the total population. in eight of the counties. negroes constituted more than 50 percent of the population. in e were negro farmers less than 39 percentroughly 40 percentof the population. in those counties there was county committee member who was a negro. nevertheless it is the county committee members who determine who shall receive credit and who shall . we  k that one of the worst sanctions imposed uponand one of the prime weapons used againstnegroes in the south who have the temerity to want to vote or get out in registration drives or show any signs whatever of being anything other than compliant citizens willing to stand by and see their fundamental rights as americans denied to them. is the denial of credit--an ecoic weapon. an ecoic sanction. also the system of white county committees lends itself to the system which is called in the south sponsorship. if a negro does  have the sponsorship of some respectable and responsible white citizen in a community. he finds it very difficult to get a job. to get a loan. or to get along al all. one can never implement situations of this character with the detailed application of farmer a on farm a who suffered this particular type of denial. the problem becomes fuzzy with questions as to whether the applicants credit was good or bad. or whether he ought to be a farm owner or . but i would like to give some figures for the record from the recent study by the southern regional council with respect to the nine rural counties in south carolina. over the 3year period ended june 30. 1962. only nine loans under federal programs in the entire nine counties were made to negroes for the purpose of enabling them to acquire their own farms. five of the nine loans were made in fiscal year 1961. of loans either to build or to improve farm housing. only 14 loans were made to negroes. 5 of those having been made also in fiscal year 1961. moreover. out of $1.222.630 advanced by the farmers home administration for farm land acquisition in those countriesfundamental farm ownershipduring that period. only $55.550 went to negro families. and out of $1.328.915 advanced for farm housing. only $81.955 went to negroes. in short. in the first case. it was under 5 percent. in the second case it was under 7 percent. when we are dealing with a population juxtaposition in any of those counties. of  less than 40 percent. which the negro farmer bears to the white and. as we very well k. the negroes are frequently those who are most in need of loans-
. i have already said that i can testify as to that. in giving the facts and figures. i have said that one must draw a conclusion from the overall situation. i ask unanimous consent to include at this point table 4 of the farmers home administration program for south carolina giving for the years 1959. 1960. and 1961 operating loans. farm ownership loans. farm housing loans. soil and water conservation loans. and giving records for white and negro applications received and loans made. so that it will be very clear. as i say to my colleague. what was applied for and what was granted.
first. i base my argument on the fact that negroes are on the county committees which control that kind of credit. which is almost inconceivable when we are dealing with a county 42 percent of whose farmers are negroes. unless there was a discriminatory pattern. second. i base my argument on the overall grant of credit for certain purposes. especially farm ownership. which shows again a complete and radical disproportion between the negro and the white farmers in that particular set of counties and the figure on home ownership loans granted. i point out that even the courts in similar situations are willing to accept that kind of evidence as conclusive. final. or determinativebut as evidence. that is the sense in which i submit it. in view of those figures. it is beyond reasonable expectation that there should be other than some form of discriminatory pattern. unless an effort is made to come forward and explain why those figures are as heavily loaded as they are against negro farmers.
. we must constantly test these farm programs. in view of the fact that the money is being spent to the tune of billions of dollars a year. in the light of whether they really are helping our farm community. let us remember that new york state is one of the nations leading producers of milk and cheese. therefore. i represent a state which has a burning interest in agriculture. first. we must consider the farmer. then we must consider the consumer. and mainly the city consumer. because 70 percent of our consumers  reside in urban areas. then. we must consider. though  in this order of priority. because they are all entitled to equal consideration. the taxpayer. who is underwriting all our efforts to stabilize the farm situation. we must consider the advancing techogy in the field of agriculture which has stimulated greater production. finally. we must consider the progress of research and development in the agricultural field. with the object of developing new techniques and outlets for the distribution of our farm surpluses. tested by all these standards. it is my belief that the pending bill is  going in the right direction. but in the wrong direction. laying aside the charge of coercion that has been made with respect to the secretary of agriculture and the statements made that if legislation is passed prior to the may 21 wheat referendum and the farmers vote " on the referendum. they will get legislation passed this year. and speaking solely about the present bill. it seems to me that if we were going in the right direction i would  care about the influence of passage of this legislation on the wheat referendum. but i deeply feel that we are still attempting to go in the wrong direction. running against the current. and. instead of dealing with surpluses. with the efficiency of the farmer. with obsolescence and advances in techogy in farm production. we have approached the problem by attempting to impose limitations on production. which have the effect. in my view. of raising prices materially for the consumer. such increased prices further adversely affect our ability to compete in the rest of the world. and the present policy also contributes to a reduction of the total output of food which we could utilize with effectiveness in the food for peace program and similar programs. i have always been greatly impressed by the position of the senator from vermont and of others. that although we have large surpluses. when we consider the mutability of nature and the vast responsibilities we have in the world and our existing capacity to meet these responsibilities. one can come to the conclusion that we have idinate surpluses. i have always said. and i say againand i deeply feel that this represents the prevailing view in my statethat we would pay even the emous bill which is involved in aid to american agriculture. if we had our feet moving in the right direction. the present plan does  assist us in movement in the right direction. it merely provides for a limitation of supplies. and at the same time places a very high cost on the development and maintenance of the surpluses which are created. such a policy imposes a double tax on american consumers.
i thank the senator from vermont for his very informed judgment about the dairy situation. may i ask him a question with respect to dairymen. does the senator feet that if the bill passes. it will result in increased costs of feed grain to the dairymen.
in 1962. congress passed the wheat program. as the senator will remember. the wheat program allowed a diversion of a certain number of wheat acres to feed grain acreage. is the practical effect of the pending measure to add to that program price protection and compensatory payments for feed grains which were  actually included in the wheat program.
. yesterday there was debate on the floor in regard to the feed grains bill and the possibility that i might submit to that bill an amendment on the civil rights issue. at that time i caused objection to be made. in order to keep the door open for such an amendment. i  make the following statement on that subject: the culmination in birmingham. ala.. of swiftmoving events which have given such cause for alarm makes it essential that congress carry out its responsibilities to the nation in connection with civil rights legislation. i am convinced that the key piece of civil rights legislation under present conditions is one giving the attorney general authority to sue in representative civil cases to safeguard by court order the rights of u.s. citizens under the 14th amendment to the constitution. which also includes the right of peaceful assembly and petition under the 1st amendment. to offer such an amendment to the pending feed grains bill would. i am convinced. tend to shatter. rather than to cement. the bipartisanship which is so essential to the passage of the proposed civil rights legislation i have described. and i am. therefore. foregoing the opportunity to offer such an amendment to the feed grains bill. however. i am joining my colleagues of both parties in urging the administrations espousal of such a civil rights measure on a high priority basis. we will  see an end to the dangers of violence and racial conflict unless some peaceful means of expression and redress of grievances is available to negro citizens. the congress can and must make its contribution for that purpose. i shall join with other senators. and reserve the right individually to move amendments myself. in seeking action by suitable amendments to pending bills or original legislation. as the opportunity to do so is presented. i recall to the senate that such an amendment was recently presented on the supplemental appropriations bill in relation to the farmers home administration appropriation. and will be presented on other appropriation bills and measures of general legislation. let one interpret this decision on the feed grains bill as avoiding a showdown on this crucial national issue. the showdown must and will come on the senate floor. and every member of this body will have an opportunity to stand up and be counted on this epic domestic struggle for equal justice under law. which dominates our age.
referring to them as such. or  doing so. will  dispel what is occurring in numerous cities in the country. it will  dispel the segregated county farm agents. the segregated schools. the segregated stores. or hotels or anything else. the fact that we do  refer to ii will only make the negroes think they have friends at all. and force them to take the law into their own hands if we do  help.
i should like to make one further point if we do  sell to the russians. the russians still can buy elsewhere. and do. they buy from canada. we all k that they are willing to buy from australia. and from argentina. those are real possibilities. the fact that we deny them the grain would make a difference. but i do  think it would make such a material difference as to represent the "yes" or " as to whether we ought to adopt that policy
on the question of the possible grain deal. it seems to me we really must depend upon the president. it is to be a oneshot operation. it would  feed a country for very longeither the russians or the satellites or anybody else. it possibly represents. in the presidents armory. an opportunity he does  wish to forgo. feeling it would result in the russians discussing problems with us. it might bear fruit. there are other proposals in the wind which could be consummated which could be of tremendous value to the free world. i believe senators could all agree at least with my main thesis. this is my main thesis: we must be sure that if the one grain deal is allowed it will  represent the beginning of a new policy. it could be allowed. for reasons the president considered to be in the national interest. we should be sure that this would be a oneshot transaction. with the president acting as the chief foreign policy negotiator. saying. "go along with me on this. it is very valuable to the united states. i want to do it." that is really what i am arguing for.
the senator can say that russia must come to us. i would back with my life the. senators agricultural assessment. and his kledge in that field. and his sincerity. but the senator can tell me that the soviet must have this wheat. that is  true. i do  think they must have it. they will do without it. they would like to have it. but they can do without it. as they have done before. with the repression in their society. they will get through. this is the focal point of the discussion: it is  a matter of life or death. surely. they want the wheat. but it is  a matter of "make or break." we would have to view this as a onetime deal. if we were to get an advantage from it. provided it does  back us into a trade deal. but we should leave it as a unit. single decision for the president to make. i express the hope that the president would give us that assurance. it would be extremely valuable to the opponents of the onetime deal. and to the proponents. it would be very helpful if the president would say to us. "if i approve the wheat deal. it does  represent anything but a onetime commitment. our relations with the soviet union would remain the same. i am perfectly willing to discuss with them what we will do and what they will do in a trade deal. but this is  it." such an assurance would take the "heat" out of the entire problem.
let me appraise that statement so we can determine where the differences are and where we meet. we differ in that i do  believe the oneshot deal is that important. it is important that we  back ourselves into a general trade policy with the soviet union on the basis of the proposed wheat sale. i would rather turn everything down if that is what is to happen. the one narrow point with which i do  agree is that this deal makes or breaks that policy. i would leave the decision in this one case to the president. that is the narrow. sole basis on which it should be done. other than that. i think we agree on what we must do.
i am sure there are very great advantages to the united states. and i have tried to discuss them pro and con. i do  believe the senators arguments present a great egh disadvantage to outweigh them. for this reason: first. the amount involved is  egh to make any appreciable dent in the situation of a country having the population and size of communist china. second. if that is all there is to the sioviet rift. and if it can be cured by several hundred million dollars worth of wheat. even if it were all used for that purpose. i think the rift would have been over long before this. each of those regimes is. in my opinion. deeply dug in upon this subject. in my judgment. it is  the kind of thing that can be healedif it exists. and we all have suspicions of thatby what would be involved in this particular wheat trade. based upon the amount involved and the situation into which it would fit. i do  believe the soviets would use the wheat as that kind of counter. i would  for a moment say that it is  within the communist lexicon to try any such deal. but i do  believe it would lend itself to use as this kind of a weapon.
i wish to join the senator from th dakota in voting against the amendment. even though we in new york raise wheat to speak of. but for the reason which has been mentioned by the majority leader. a great nation neither bluffs  vacillates in the wind like a weather vane. by national consensus we have agreed to make the wheat deal. the terms for it have been discussed on mal commercial terms. the exportimport bank would act as any other bank would act. as a lender. and would  extend credit unless it thought it was a good loan.  of the united states. as a national decision.  to go into it. however. to kill it in this fashion would be demeaning to the united states. we will  pull down communism by selling them or  selling them this wheat. or pull down communism by commercial trade or lack of commercial trade. many more monumental things must be done for that. we would confuse our western allies by following a policy that others have  pursued. and we would deprive our people of some markets with them. in the interest of our national dignity and standing as a great state. let us deal with this problem frontally.  in this backhanded way.
what brought me to my feet was the statement by the genial senator from washington that he and the other members of his committee worked hard and reported part of the civil rights bill. and he said they had done their best. however. i can find that bill on the calendar. and it has  been reported on the floor. therefore. senator is in aposition to call it up. those of us who feel that the leadership is wrong in waiting for the bill to be received from the house should then have had their "day in court." in determining whether the following of our suggestion would result in acceleration of the work of the session. i thoroughly agree with my colleague from new york. it is very interesting to e that most of the other members who agree with him sit in the back rows. where the rank and file of the members of the senate are to be found. just as the mundt bill touched off the debate on the wheat bill. so the senators suggestion is a start in connection with a very critical debate in the congress. all of us k who are responsible for the situation. we k that the committee chairmen who have these bills on their hands are just as sincere and just as patriotic as are we who disagree with them. but we have way to manifest our disagreement. except once in a while we are able to call to the attention of everyone in the country the consequences of the action or lack of action of the committees. it is suggested that at this very late stage in the session we could  even take final action on the appropriation bills by the end of ember. whereas year after year we have ended our session by this time. after having taken final action on all the appropriation bills. so i could  agree more completely with the senator from pennsylvania. let us get the heat turned on by the people of the country. who are the ones who are in a position to turn it on. that must be done if we are to take the action that is called for by president lyndon johnson. i thank the senator from pennsylvania for his remarks. and i congratulate him on them.
i am very cognizant of the senators problems in connection with scheduling measures for consideration. and so forth. but i think this matter should  be passed over without elucidation. i preface my remarks by saying that i realize that the senator from montana has very great problems in connection with scheduling the consideration of measures. second. in way do i challenge his desireand it is urgently mineto schedule the consideration of the civil rights bill and to have it disposed of. although we k its consideration will take a considerable length of time. however. we have been carried along here. without anyones really raising hob about the situation. and have waited for the conference report on the tax bill to be made. although mally there would have been an adjournment. and the second reading of the civil rights bill would have been in order. and it could have been placed on the calendar. and could have been brought up for consideration. a question of proportion is always involved. so. . many of us feltalthough we were most unhappy about itthat that was one of the facts of life with which we had to live. and that it would take a few days. and then that would be done. in the cloakrooms there has been talk to the effect that the farm bill would be brought up first. and thus would to that extent delay the senates consideration of the civil rights bill. so i wish to ask this questionand i emphasize the fact that i am  doing this idly or on a nitpicking basis: should it appearassuming that the tax bill will finally be disposed of by wednesday. let us saythat. come wednesday night or thursday. the farm bill is still being debatedand. after all. it could be filibustered. toocould the senator from montana. in all fairness to him and to his many responsibilities and obligationsgive us some outline of his plans. if we are to let the farm bill run its course and to hold the civil rights bill out of consideration until the farm bill has run its course. some of us would have strong objections. i merely lay that point before the senate. without jumping to conclusions. as a problem  only for me. but for the country. there has been a great deal of talk in the newspapers about the fact that civil rights bill will be stalled. we all understand that the newspapers like to write things in a dramatic way. but i do think it would be helpful for the senator to stateif he feels he can--his full purpose.
i do  like to have the senator engage in suppositions. i k the senator has read. as i have. speculation on the intercession of a farm bill between the present time and the time of taking up the civil rights bill. i think it would be most reassuring if the senator should chooseand i submit it to the senatorto tell the senate what will be done if there is an idinate delay. for example. suppose there were a filibuster against one of the other bills. will the senator continue in his determination to bring up the civil rights bill within a very proximate time.
i do agree. and i am delighted to have had this most helpful intercession by the senator from pennsylvania. for as a result of what he has said. the effect of the statement i am making will be just that much greater. . it is proper to point out that with power goes responsibility. and i emphasize my determination to exercise all the responsibility i have in favor of urging immediate consideration by the senate of the civil rights bill. the responsibility rests upon the majority in having chosen to take up an ecoic bill in preference to a human bill. that is idle matter. for with the power to choose what bill will be called up goes the responsibility to account to the country as to why this as against any other. i conclude upon the following e. a great opportunity is being lost. quite apart from the fact that many who will be filibustering the civil rights bill have a great interest in seeing the socalled farm bill passed. quite apart from that realistc-"pragmatic" is probably the best wordconcept. and looking at the thing in rather different terms. is it  true that if we called up the civil rights bill . we would make crystal clear to all the world that those who filibuster the civil rights bill do  have to do it. they are doing it.  because it requires elucidation beyond the reasonable compass of debate on a bill.more complex than many. but because they are utilizing the procedures of the senate. which are archaic in that regard. either to prevent the senate from acting at all or to emasculate what the senate does in relation to so profound a social question as the one before us. i am  without hope about this. i believe that we will vote a meaningful civil rights bill. indeed. i am one of those who believe we will even vote cloture. but i make the following prediction: the force and the impact of the public feeling upon this measure will communicate itself to the senate. though we  get into a phase of laying aside civil rights in order to consider the farm bill. there is a great deal of talk about the fact that we will gradually work into longer sessions. as if there was something wrong with extending the sessionsyes. even to aroundtheclock sessionswhere the obvious design is clear to prevent the senate from executing its constitutional rightindeed. its constitutional dutyto vote. i do  think such action needs apologies. i do  think we have to lay on with a feather duster. i believe events will catch up with the senate. and this is the beginning of the kind of thing that will produce the reaction that will compel events to catch up with the senate. we are  living in a dream world. there are millions of people who are so deeply aggrieved that they will go out on the streets and demonstrate in such a way as to be very dangerous for our nation unless we have the foresight here to do something about it. we are  removed from the world. we are  merely talking to each other. i deeply feel that we are making a great mistake. we are beginning it . we will aggravate that mistake if in the civil rights debate there will be the leisure. the comfort. the convenience. and the amplitude of mind to let it drift along as gentlemen. come what may. for weeks and weeks and months and months on end. events will catch up with us. i think this is exactly the moment for my colleague from new york. the senator from pennsylvania. and me. who understand the lives of big cities where 70 percent of the american people live. to give the senate this e of warning of what is written on the wall. for the purpose and with the hope that as we and the people themselves emphasize the facts. the senate will come to a realization of the profundity of the matter with which it is dealing. and give it its due.
i thank my colleague. speaking for myself. i should like to say that yesterday. after i had objected to the unanimousconsent request. i said that i would sleep on it. i did. i believe it was the only thing which could be done by anyone who feels. as i do. that this matter should be pressed. it was  my ohoice that the farm bill should precede the civil rights bill. it was my choice that the civil rights bill should precede the farm bill.
. to closeand i am sorry to have taken longer than anticipated. but some of the time can be attributed to the colloquy which ensuedi believe that the urgency of the civil rights bill is great. much as i understand and appreciate the desires of those interested in the wheat and cotton bill to have it considered. and inasmuch as the civil rights bill is on the calendar and ready for action. it should be acted on. so for all the reasons which my colleague from new york. the senator from pennsylvania. and i have developed. i shall vote "nay" on the motion to take up the farm bill.
. i submit. on behalf of myself and senators keating and tower. an amendment to h.r. 6136 for the establishment of a commission on revision of federal agricultural laws and programs. i point out that the senator from minnesota submitted an amendment somewhat similar to this one. last night. this amendment. which takes the form of legislation which i previously introduced in the 87th congress as senate joint resolution 238 and in the 88th congress as senate joint resolution 152. calls for federal revision of existing agricultural laws for the purpose of taking a new and much needed fresh look at our present agricultural programs and obj ectives. in accord with this intent. i would like to mention that the new york times of march 3. 1964. in an editorial entitled "wooing the farm bloc" urged the administration and the congress to take a fresh look at our agricultural programs. i am hopeful that just such a review will be carried out if this amendment is adopted.
. the amendment provides for the appointment of a hoovertype commission to give consideration to basic questions affecting this countrys agricultural policy. the amendment was discussed last night by me and by my colleague from new york in connection with an amendment proposed by the senator from minnesota . which the senator from minnesota withdrew. i should like to address a question directly to the chairman of the committee on agriculture and forestry . who is always most generous about affording hearings to senators who have a serious interest in bills. in view of the fact that quite a number of sehators are interested. would he feel disposed to grant a hearing at a propitious time on legislation which has been introduced. to establish such a commission. i am hopeful that it may be quite soon. the committee might then give the proposal the considered judgment which i believe it deserves. i should like to take a minute. pending the arrival of the senators who have cosponsored the amendment with me. to explain the amendment. the commission sought to be appointed under this amendment is a hoovertype commission consisting of 12 members. it is proposed that there be members from the executive branch. members from the house of representatives and the senate. and members from public life. who. we assume. would include those deeply concerned with questions of agriculture. i emphasize the term "hoovertype commission." because the idea would be quite outside the mal operation of the great committee on agriculture and forestry. which. of course. considers these matters constantly. the department of agriculture. which has this subject under constant consideration. and other agencies of the government. such as the council of ecoic advisers. which deal with ecoic policy. further. it is proposed to take the matter out of the mal channel in which it would generally be confined. where we believe in great sincerity there is a tendency. because the situation is so complex and so difficult. to continue programs in accord with agricultural philosophy of the nation  incorporated in existing agricultural legislation. it is proposed to take the subject out of that jurisdiction and entrust it to a representative group for the purpose of seeing whether new answers can be provided. the amendment which is before the senate proposes that we consider present and future requirements for agricultural commodities in the united states and in the world. determine whether and how best they can be fully met. the amendment also endeavors to deal with the whole problem of the shift of the farmer from the farm to the city. as we all k. this represents a great development over what is occurring in a world with a diminished farm population. there is a necessity for ecoic adjustmefit for the farmer who may desire to shift to aher sector of the ecoy. the junior senator from new york and the senator from delaware are  in the chamber. they have introduced bills to the same effect. so has senator humphrey. who dealt with the subject last night. i ask the chairman of the committee whether. in pursuance of his usual generous practice. he feels that he could provide for a hearing on these measuresmy own. introduced with my colleague and senators tower and beall. and measures introduced by the senator from delaware [mr. bocos] and the senator from minnesota -at some appropriate time which would fit in with the other work of the .committee. i mr. ellender. i can give that assurance. provided the hearings on the measures referred can fit in with the other work of the committee. and i understand that is the course contemplated.
. i must oppose the pending amendment. which i think is inimical to the interests of consumers in the great state which i represent. i am  at all convinced that the amendment is necessary in order to deal fairly with the interests of the cattle industry. today. we are taking a very strong position against the european common market in connection with our agricultural exportsexports to the tune of approximately $1 billion a year. hence. we must be very careful that what we seek to do in connection with imports does  very materially affect our export position in the world. i am deeply appreciative of the problems. facing the cattle feeders. but. fortunately. our ecoy is large egh to permit those of us. who have different ecoic concerns. to represent our views. in reaching a consensus. rather than to be forced to ride along with the views of one particular group. it is true that the cattle industry is afflicted with a substantial oversupply which has materially depressed the prices. but the various government agencies concerned are  entirely convinced that that situation has been materially contributed to by the imports. in fact. in terms of hamburgers. frankfurters. and other meat products much of the low cost is made possible because the imported products are mixed in with the domestic products. a voluntary quota to restrict imports of beef. veal. and mutton from new zealand and australia has been negotiated recently and was so annced by the agriculture department on february 17. an agreement to voluntarily restrict such imports from mexico and ireland is also in process. on march 1. just 4 days ago. secretary freeman also annced that the agriculture department will initiate two beef purchase programs in a further effort to improve domestic beef prices. in my judgment conclusive case has been shown for the relief proposed by the pending amendment. which would be a most extraordinary step. and would inevitably get us into the greatest difficulty with three or four of our close trading partners. we have already established quotas. for example. on lead. zinc. and residual fuel oil. with respect to the last commodity mentioned quotas have caused us untold mischief. in addition. they jeopardize the success of the alliance for progress. the ability to trade freely means much more to the latin american countries than any direct aid we might give them. i must oppose the pending amendment. furthermore. apparently one group of producers in the nation has  based its aims on such an import restriction. but. instead. has requested government supports. we may differ in regard to what would be the proper policy. but at least that group has requested government supports. the pending amendment represents a new departure in this field. i believe it would be a twoedged sword which would hurt our nation much more than it would hurt other nations. the difficulties affecting the cattle industry are largely due to its present oversupply and. as a result. the law of supply and demand has worked its will on beef prices. the cattle industry requests this aid. and believes it to be justified. however. in my opinion it is  justified. therefore. i shall oppose the amendment.
. i support the amendment offered by the senator from texas for these reasons: in the first place. the wheat farmers in the may 21. 1963. referendum voted overwhelmingly against a wheat program. similar to the one  proposed. in new york. only 31.5 percent of our wheat farmers supported a certificate program. agree that the incentives provided in .his proposal are so great that farmers will have great difficulty  participatng. therefore. this is. for all practical purposes. a program that the wheat farmer must accept. even though dressed up as a voluntary program. this wheat program constitutes an effort to plow the same old furrow which has produced overwhelming surpluses and emous expenditures by the taxpayers. i never believe in opposing something in a sterile way without endeavoring to suggest a constructive alternative. this wheat program is  the right prescription for the millions of consumers. or the farmers of new york whom i represent. in my judgment. a fair balance between the farm population and the consuming urban population is a farm program based heavily upon the following: land retirement and. at the same time. its conservation. a broadscale financing for the conversion of more unecoic farmers to more ecoically useful ways in which they can earn a living. expanded development of the foodforpeace program under public law 480. a meaningful research program to discover greater industrial uses of farm products and the phasing out. rather than phasing in. which we are doing  with a high fixed price support program. i think that fourpart of the program is right and fair both for the consuming and the rural elements in our country. i shall work for it. and it is toward that end that i support the amendment of the senator from texas
. in reply to the junior senator from nebraska . let me say that all foreign sellers of livestock to cattlemen in the united states are very much in favor of higher prices in the united states. that is true of mexico. but this bill does  affect that situation at all. this bill deals with meat which is imported into the united states. i assume that mexico exports some. but i can well understand why the gentleman from soa said what he said. it would help his business.
feeder airlines and other kinds of airlines. i should like to find out how we are going to solve these transportation problems in the big cities. in other words. if we subsidize the growing of farm commodities. matter how much money the farmer has lost. that is moral. but when we get into the cities. earning wealth and producing taxes. and we wish to give them a small subsidy to keep them from strangulation. that has suddenly become highly immoral. the very gentlemen who plead for subsidies by the hundreds of millions of dollars stand up and say. "oh.  this is very wasteful. this is $4 million. we can afford it." let me point out to the senator from wisconsin that on page 1019 of the record of the hearings of the appropriations subcommittee-
i differ with the senator from wisconsin on that point. i will lay side by side farm subsidies. feeder airline subsidies. and every other kind of subsidy. by population. for the 70 percent of americans living in the big cities. and for the approximately 30 percent of americans living in the small towns and rurals areas of america. and we will see something so topheavy that it will make our heads swimand everyone ks that. what are we talking about. we are talking about phasing out these subsidies. the phasing out period is outlined in detail on page 1019 of the hearings. the period would extend from 1965 to 1971. when the subsidy would disappear. that is it. at long last. as the senator from wisconsin said today. and by virtue of the fact that he has kept at itfor which i admire himhe has brought into being a program which is supported. this is it. this is the proposed end of it. this phasing out of the program will give the operators their opportunity either to make it or  make it. at least. we wish them to get whatever profit they can out of the $46 million already invested by the federal government. in all frankness. that is the only reason i mentioned the other point. it is  a question of the senator from wisconsin bringing this point up. but because other senators have raised the question who are always contending for farm subsidies or other kinds of subsidies. and they tell us how absolutely wasteful this helicopter program is. it is with respect to the general climate of that feeling that i was arguing in respect to the citieshing else.
i am also pleased to see the availability of funds for the purpose mentioned by the distinguished senator from th dakota with respect to experiment. research. and various forms of testing. and other activities. to improve the quality and output of milk. as a member of the government operations subcommittee which is investigating pesticides. a subcommittee headed by the distinguished senator from connecticut . i am gratified to see the appropriations committee emphasize pesticide research. that is.  the alarming aspects of pesticide use. or what might even be considered as the sensational conclusions concerning the presence of harmful pesticides in foods and other products. but the redeeming aspects of the whole pesticides movement. which is making possible for the american people the great improvement in the standard of living. especially in terms of food. which they enjoy. therefore. the determination of the committee to provide for. what i always believed in. a thorough scientific research program to permit pesticides to be more useful to the american people. is most heartening. it takes up exactly where the presidents committee on this subject said we should begin. the subcommittee and its chairman are entitled to strong commendation for the constructive and intelligent nature of that approach.
. i shall take some time of my own to state my reasons why i think the consumers should support the amendment of the senator from hawaii. i should like to ask the senator a question. is it a fact that the beet and cane sugar farmers. who will get an increase in the quota. themselves have the benefit of agricultural adjustment laws of the united states. so that the treasury supports the price for them as it does for other farm commodities.
the senator is absolutely correct. the new york area receives some 150 ships a year. i heard the senator from massachusetts say that boston receives 70 ships a year. for new york. this is an important industry. directly employing 5.000 persons. i would  be justified in arguing this case upon that ground alone. any more than i feel it is justifiable to argue the case on the other side in terms of increasing domestic production merely because to do so would provide american farmers with more work to do. what we must have in america is rational farm production based upon what. in ecoic terms. is the best and most ecoical for us to raise. we are  dealing with a problem of national security. it can be said that if we did  give this authority to the american farmer. the security of the united states would be imperiled. we are dealing with shortage of supplies of sugar. the department of agriculture has withheld 500.000 tons from the quota. the effort is to latch on to that 500.000 tons in a way which. in my judgment. and with all respect to those on the other side. is unecoical to the american taxpayer. as the senator from massachusetts has emphasized.
. if the senator from vermont will indulge me a moment before i start on my own address. i. too. would like to congratulate the senator for a magnificently provocative address. i  only consider the senator my senior in the senate. but i ho and love him as a great american and a great friend. when he shows his eternal youth. as he did today. in so provocative a statement. it is a great joy to those like myself who are interested in these subjects. i should like. if i may. to clarify the point because i think i k the senators mind on this subject very well. it seems to me that what the senator has said in effect is this: matter what we do about the money. the important thing is the authority. in other words. the united nations. having shown a certain capability through the general assembly to do something about peacekeeping. is  denuded of a valuable authority because. it handles its money business unwisely. this would be a great loss to the world. and even if we begin to recognize that article 19 is a nullity and. in reality. if we are to have money for peacekeeping operations it must be contributed voluntarilyeven if we got to that pointpreserving the authority of the general assembly so it could authorize peacekeeping operations. even if financed voluntarily. is extremely valuable. it seems to me that the senator has separated the wheat from the chaff. it is the authority that we wish to preserve. we do  desire that to go down the drain because of the fact that the money equation has been badly handled.
those of us who vote that way can say to the american seamen that at one and the same time. we are perfectly willing to work out the terms of keeping them viable and afloat. while  destroying the process of american farm policy. the seaman has a right to have us tell him that. at one and the same time.
i agree that this may be entirely possible and that is what we ought to be looking forward to and anticipate. i hold with the senator from vermont that we can afford surpluses. they are the most powerful asset we have in this country. i am  afraid of the production of our factories. i am  afraid of the production of our farms. but let us produce intelligently and with a minimum of governmental intercession. there must be some governmental intercession in order to keep the farm ecoy vitally effective and stable. i thoroughly agree with that. but we have  taken an overall look at the system by an independent federal comprehensive study. the amendment which is sponsored by the senator from delaware . the senator from texas and myself is designed to provide authority for such a federal review. the president himself agrees with us. as is evident from his farm message. this is like the situation in the gilbert and sullivan opera "the pirates of penzance." the police are supposed to go and catch the pirates. they say. "we must go. we must go." but the fact is that they do  go. the president says. "you must go". and the general opinion is. "you must review the program from the ground up." but action has been taken yet on this important problem. there is senator for whom i have higher regard than the manager of the bill. the distinguished senator from louisiana . i am sure all senators agree with me. but the bill leaves alternative. we have been trying to stimulate interest in this necessary review of agricultural policy for a considerable time. in fact since 1962. on march 4. 1964. former senator keating. of new york. and i sponsored a similar amendment. at that time i said: i ask the chairman of the committee whether. in pursuance of his usual generous practice. he feels that he could provide for a hearing on these measuresmy own. introduced with my colleagues and measures introduced by the senator from delaware [ of the united statesat some appropriate time which would fit in with the other work of the committee.
i can tell the senatol from vermont how much appreciated his words of support are. i k that the senator from delaware and the senator from texas [mr. tower] agree with me when i say that the senator from vermont is an outstanding expert on farm policy. so it is extremely gratifying that he should think so well of these efforts.
i wish to commend the senator from indiana for his thorough analysis of this situation. which has been debated on the floor constantly. somehow or other we can get the administration to understand the will of the congress in this matter. that we are  taken in by president nasser. and that we will  feed aggression. that is what he has engaged in.  will we feed out of our food supplies indirectly certain purchases of arms. the conditions which the senator from indiana set out are designed to deal with that problem. i think it is most important that such a distinguished democrat. from the party of the president. makes this clear to the administration. somehow we have  been able to break through and the executive prerogative in foreign policy has been used cii-----853part 10 to frustrate the policy of the congress in regard to president nasser. i join the senator in what he said. and i hope he will make this point very forcefully from the fine position which he occupies. i believe that what is being done is most inimical to the interest of the united states. we are being played for suckers. and  following the will of the congress on the foreign policy of our nation. which is to secure peace. be against aggression. and to at least bring some order and peace to the middle east.
one further point. if the senator from vermont will permit me. because i believe we are actually crystallizing the issue. as i understand the situation. the practice is  uniform throughout the states. in the state of california. for example. under their regulations. they follow the practice which the senator is seeking to stop. to wit. they refer workers to a farm employer where an effort is being made to organize his farm. but in other states that is  so. in other states the service will  make referrals in such a situation.
. i am delighted that this problem has been solved. i assure the senator from nebraska and the senator from indiana that. as the senator from texas has said. our eye was  on this particular targetthe farm implement dealer. i am much pleased that we have found it possible to satisfy what appears to be a legitimate need.
. i am told that a problem arises from language on page 15 of the report. the problem relates to the paragraph entitled "clarification and consolidation of exemptions relating to seasonal industries and the handling and processing of farm products." we included certain conditions which. if they exist. will require overtime exemption for canning. packing. et cetera. the last three lines on page 15 read as follows: perishable refers to commodities subject to deterioration or spoilage under ordinary circumstances unless some affirmative action is taken within a short time to preserve them from spoilage or decay. i ask the senator from texas whether the word "short" is an essential qualification to that definition or criterion. or whether the sentence is complete without it.
. i am a city boy. as everybody ks. having been here a considerable time. by  they k it. i am inspired to speak at this time because only a few days ago a farm boy by the name of ed muskie made one of the most eloquent speeches describing the problems of the cities that i have ever heard. so if a farm boy can speak about cities. perhaps i can say something about the problems of farms. i would like to say a word about the minimum wage law as i see it looking at it from our point of view. in the hope that we would bring into consideration some other factors than those that may have been already mentioned. to me the most important aspect of this move. which is an emous reform. lies in the fact that we want to keep them down on the farm. and  have them forced to go up to the cities. we believe that this bill will make the farm more attractive. that it will make the farmers better able to compete. rather than less able. because right  the whole wage standard. as we see it in the figures. taken across the board in the country. represents a low standard as compared with what is paid in the cities. the farm area has been indicated as an empty place and withdrawn from recreational areas. as compared with places where there are things to do and which are great places in which to live. why  make these rural places areas of opportunity. the most important aspect of this report is the survey which is found on page 19 of the report. which. incidentally. is a magnificent document. and i should like to compliment the staff for it.
. the question of commuting appears in a totally different subsection of the amendment than does the question of a child working on a family farm or on a neighboring farm. the senator will e that the word "or" is used. it states: "or is 14 years of age or over." in other words. if over 14 years of age. the child can work in agriculture. then. the third part of it is that even if he is only 12that is. between the ages of 12 and 14he may work on a farm to which he commutes daily. if it is within 25 miles. and with the written consent of his parent.
i am grateful to the senator. my beloved colleague. with whom i work so closely. hing distresses me more about where we stand  than the fact that he and i should find ourselves on opposite sides of this question. . it seems to me that the main argument which is made against the conference report is that the measure will result in a dearth of agricultural workers. that argument is  germane to this issue because we are going to be paying agricultural workers subject to the conference report more and  less than they are getting today. therefore. logic would indicate that more workers would be available and  less workers. as a matter of fact. farm pricesthat is. farm prices received by the farmersin terms of the cost of living which the consumer is  paying have materially increased. we are anxious to get more production.
. in answer to the question of the senator from ohio . i did  concede that the only thing wrong with this was the lack of a finding by the court. i simply pointed out that there was  even that much assistance to help the administrator implement this provision. in addition. i am well acquainted with the rule on recognition of collateral judgments. that is  involved here. the administrator would himself have to try every case. but the provision would be bad if it had that qualification on collateral judgments because of the multiplicity of administrative effort and because it runs so much against the grain of american tradition in connection with alleged crime.
i answered that by saying that we are dealing in civil rights acts with establishments and  with millions of individuals. which is what we have here. if this step is taken here it should be taken in every farm program. in all fairness and decency. there should be a similar standard in every farm program. i can see smiles on the faces of some senators when i make that suggestion. we would  think of it. there is  any more reason here than in the case of the loans to college students. on which we marched up the hill and down the hill. they had the gumption to protest. i do  k about the poor. they may have to lie down and take it.
it seems to me this is introducing a new subject about which we have  heard from the government departments. we are in the kennedy round of negotiations. i do  k how this amendment would affect the kennedy round. should we pass it. it would certainly have an effect on our negotiators who are negotiating on it. because it relates to a very important commodity. there is hing in the world to prevent the senate from acting on it or the senator from pushing it. but it seems to me that if we are to do that we should do it in a deliberate way. i certainly would like to find out what our state department thinks of it with respect to the geneva negotiation. my own state is involved in $3 or $4 or $5 billion worth of exports of all types a year. i am sure the livestock business in my state does  begin to approach the total of general exports from my state. i certainly would want to k the effect of this measure. because i must assume. if i vote for it. that that is it. i would like to k what effect this measure will have on the general exports and imports of the united states and the ability to conclude the kennedy round. we have idea on it. personally. i would consider it most improvident to vote affirmatively unless i did k. i can at all see letting this amendment slide through without a rollcall. on the assumption that it is just attached to the bill and what difference does it make.
. during the senate consideration of the investment tax credit legislation an amendment was included which would have reduced by onethird the maximum annual foreign shipments of beef. lamb and goat meat into the united states. the amendment was dropped in conference. however. many of its features have been incorporated in a bill. s. 1588. which is presently pending before the finance committee. in considering this legislation. unfortunately. little attention is being paid to the effects of import quotas on the american consumer. the bulk of the meats imported go into the production of hamburgers. frankfurters. and other meat products widely consumed by american families and which constitute an important share of their regular expenditures. the national cattlemens association and the national livestock feeders association both readily admit that their support for s. 1588 would have the effect of increasing consumer prices. it is clear that the american cattle industry is faced with a problem of overproduction which has affected the prices of meat. they are entitled to federal assistance as much as any other american industry in trouble. but i submit that it is entirely unfair and improper to blame the cattle industrys troubles on meat imports. i strongly urge the senate finance committee in considering a solution to the problems of the american cattle industry to bear very clearly in mind that the imposition of additional quotas on meat imports would have an adverse impact on millions of american consumers without being of material assistance to the cattle industry. i ask unanimous consent that excerpts from a statement on the meat import situation sent to me by the meat importers council be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
i am very grateful to the senator from rhode island. let me say to him. because he may  have been in the chamber when i spoke. that i k of ally i would rather have on my side than the senator from rhode island in the vigilance which is going to be required to see that this thing does  turn into an iniquitous pattern. or become a pork barrel. which it could easily become. remembering the capabilities inherent in the bill. i hope and pray that does  happen. it does  have to happen. but. it will take vigilance and dedication on the part of people like the senator from rhode island . who is in a much better position in a matter of this kind to help the country avoid the very real dangers which this amendment poses.
. i invite the attention of the senate to a letter. written by mr. michel fribourg. head of the continental grain co.. of new york. one of the worlds largest grain dealers. to the editor of the new york times on january 23. in the letter. mr. fribourg points out the importance of expanding our grain exports as one major means to deal with our balanceofpayments problem positively. and the grave danger to our agricultural exports from the imposition of protectionist measures by the united states. he warns that if u.s. agriculture loses its dollargrain markets abroad through retaliation by our customers. the entire u.s. ecoy will be adversely affected. i ask unanimous consent that mr. fribourgs letter be printed in the record.
. the senate is faced with a difficult decision with respect to the international grains arrangement of 1967. we are  faced with a blackandwhite situation. the agreement leaves much to be desired and i have serious questions about it. when the kennedy round negotiations began we rightly made the decision that the reduction of barriers with respect to agricultural trade should be made an integral part of the trade negotiations. cxiv- 1083part 13 having equal importance in the negotiations with industrial commodities. the kennedy round with respect to industrial commodities was very successful. but as far as grains are concerned the negotiations fell far short of our objectives. hence this agreement probably will  expand our wheat exports. or result in increased incomes for our wheatgrowers.  is the food aid provision of the agreement likely to provide developing nations with more food and they will probably have to pay more for their commercially acquired wheat. also. the administration spokesmen admit that the agreement failed to give us assurances of access for our wheat into the eec and the united kingdom. and the u.s.s.r. and the east european countries have  joined the agreement and this could cause problems. agreements have also been made that the agreement establishes an undesirable precedent for future trade negotiations and that if we ratify this agreement we imply our approval of the existing and costly farm pricesupport program and that this agreement runs counter to a policy of trade liberalization. others say that the higher minimum price for wheat will induce increased production abroad which will compete against our wheat exports. withstanding these arguments. the agreement has merit. it will stabilize export prices and assure greater stability of income for wheatgrowers. this is particularly important at present when we are faced with abundant wheat supplies and declining wheat export prices which could hurt our balance of payments. the agreement should prevent their decline below the established minimum price. the consultative mechanism embodied in the agreement should ensure that members do  sell below the agreed minimum price for any considerable period. if they do so we can take steps to protect our competitive position. under secretary of agriculture schnittker told the senate foreign relations committee thatif consultations with respect to prices axe going to be ironed. out. country should or can be precluded from maintaining its competitive position. under secretary schnittker further assured the committee thatwe believe that under this new arrangement we maintain every right to price our wheats competitively. hopefully at levels within the range. that is above the minimum. but if necessary because of price cutting around the world. we are determined. and we are allowed under the agreement to price our wheats competitively even at prices under the proposed minimums. of greatest and decisive importance is the fact that without this agreement. imperfect as it is. there probably would have been kennedy round agreement and that. i am sure the senate would agree. would have been contrary to our national interest. the consequences of failure to agree on substantial reductions of trade barriers would have been disasterous to the world ecoy and international ecoic cooperation and it was this realization which brought about agreement in the final hours of these negotiations. to reject this agreement  would certainly  contribute to negotiations  under way on tariff barriers  to future trade negotiations. our participation in agreements to stabilize wheat prices goes back to 16 years so we are  breaking new ground here. insofar as it contains a multilateral agreement to provide food aid to developing nations. it spreads the burden on a more equitable basis and therefore represents an improvement over previous agreements. it also covers 85 to 90 percent of all world wheat trade as opposed to 55 to 60 percent before. this should contribute to its viability. the new minimum price is 20 cents above the previous minimum. this reflects both higher prices prevailing during the past 5 years and higher demand. whether the higher minimum price will hurt our exports remains to be seen. the consultative mechanism in the agreement should prevent members selling below our prices. if it does . the department of agriculture advises us that we have the right under the agreement to protect ourselves. it should also be kept in mind that our competitive wheat posture in the world wheat markets is dominated by the export payment policy. we have been assured that the agriculture department is determined to maintain its present aggressive measures to keep u.s. export volume up. i this is  the first  the last commodity agreement that the senate will be asked to consider. we already adhere to agreements involving sugar. coffee. and cotton textiles. i have consistently favored freer international competition in agriculture and supported efforts over the past years to free our domestic agriculture from rigid government controls. unfortunately. most advanced nations do have extensive agriculture controls and i do  really believe* this agreement will affect domestic or international agricultural policy. i hope we will have a more .direct opportunity to change our present government subsidy..programs when the 1965 agriculture act comes before us later this year or early in 1969 for renewal. the real issue before us in this highly complex agreement is: which is worse having any agreement or having this one. i believe. that. on balance.  having any agreement would be worse. with these -considerations in mind. i will vote for the agreement and believe that the agreement should be given a chance to work. if. within a reasonable amount of time. it does . the united states should quickly take measures to protect its competitive position.  only grain exports are at stake here. but our balanceofpayments position and our ability to maintain our responsibilities abroad through trade surpluses. i also urge that we take steps to improve the agreement by undertaking new efforts to obtain access to the eec and the united kingdom. to improve the policing and consultative mechanism to protect our interests. and to increase the food aid contributions of other exporting nations so that the overall food aid going to developing nations be substantially above the 4.5 million tons agreed to under this agreement. i support our policy of trade liberalization. yet i will vote for this agreement because--on balanceit helps our trade position abroad. agricultural trade is entirely different from trade in industrial products inasmuch as there is still a heavy government involvement in all phases of agriculture. i am looking forward to the day when this will longer be necessary. i am confident in our ability to compete in world markets whether in industrial or agricultural products. under existing circumstances. we have to do the best we can. and this agreement. on balance. will be helpful to us.
. i am very grateful to the senator. i have fear that anybody will assume that i was a juvenile delinquent. it would have been found out long ere this. what i wished to point out in this case. and each of us has a contribution to make. is that i often listen with the greatest of respect to my colleague. the distinguished senator from california when he relates his life and experience to the legislation which we enact here. i always think with loving kindness of our farm boys. as i call them. who have had this great experience in rural america which i did  share. however. i did have the experience of living in communities with the kind of people who are the subject of the pending measure. i wish only to emphasize a certain right to speak. as it were. with a little more than the result of the study and the introspection and information which all of us gather. i thank my colleague. the senator from california. for his remarks.
because i think that if we did make the change which the senator has asked for. which is  the same provision of lawit only involves a series of presumptions which can be overturned in courtbut if you did that. you would fly in the face of reality. and we do  fly in the face of reality here. the senator might as well tell me that if i pass a law for farm subsidies. it is  going to help new york very much but will help the cotton growing states. and. therefore. i should be against it. i think we have to legislate for what is best for the nation. even though it may bear more heavily on one section than on aher. that is the argument that the senator from south carolina would have made. if he were here. against the civil rights acts going back to the first one in 1957. i understand that. but we can agree. and we ho him for being the stubborn fighter he is. but he is  going to draw me into the trap of saying that the situation in new york with respect to any inhibition on the opportunity to vote is analogous to that in a southern community where for years and years and years. to the extent of even lynching and murder. the right to vote was sought to be inhibited.
. i would like to join in congratulating milt young. as a window box farmer from new york. aside from his service to agriculture. as he just reminded us this morning with very sage observations before the republican conference. he has been a wonderful friend. he tolerated me for a long time on the appropriations committee. withstanding some heretical ideas. and he is the soul of friendship for senators. and i think for all people. his heart is a very big one. when you serve in an area that can make you case hardened and cynical. and you retain the freshness. spontaneity. warmth. and feeling for our people and their problems that milt young retains. then our farm communities are still producing for us some really great men. i join all my colleagues in congratulations.
. on behalf of my distinguished colleague from new york . who is necessarily absent. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a statement by him in support of a limitation on farm subsidy payments.
i have a suggestion. the farm bill is a conference report which can be called up even while aher bill is pending. could we  agree that it will become be laid before the senate but will become the pending business on ember 16.
 and chief executive officer of pepsico inc.. who also serves as the chairman of the emergency committee for american tradeecatmade a very timely address entitled "toward a positive trade policy: negotiate ." in this address mr. kendall quantified the importance of exports to the midwestern states ing that exports from each michigan. illis. and ohio were in excess of $2 billion and that exports of the 12 midwestern states totaled some $12 billion in manufactured goods and $3.2 billion in farm products. i welcome mr. kendalls anncement that the ecat whose membership includes 54 of the largest corporations in america will support the interim trade legislation introduced by senators har-
completely the latter. most of this money--as a matter of fact. more than halfis going to the near east and south of asia. the rest of it is heavily committed in latin america. incidentally. everybody should k that my amendment also benefits the alliance for progress. in other words. we are proposing to increase interest rates there. too. while restoration of the public law 480 program might mollify some of our colleagues. others are also interested in the other aspects of it. including farm machinery and other equipment that goes to build up a primitive ecoy. as a matter of fact. i would like to point outthat the argument made about bilateral lending is  very important. to say it goes into multilateral funds is  true. perhaps it may be some day. but it is  . we put into bilateral funds for developing countries $2.4 billion. of which we contributed $1.3 billion. but other countries contributed $950 million. which is inconsiderable amount. multilateral lending was $1.1 billion. less than half of the bilateral lending. to which we contributed $393 million. less than 50 percent.
. i ask unanimous consent that the name of the senator from kansas may be added as a cosponsor of the amendment which is before us. his desire to cosponsor it reminded me of the critical stake the agricultural community has in title vi. as the first exports to be hit adversely will be the exports of the agricultural community. let us be clear that abrogation of the mfn principal which is precisely what we are objecting to in the case of the proliferating preferential trade relations of the common market and which are so harmful to our agricultural export interests such as citrus. soybeans. wheat and feed grains. is encouraged by the adoption of this amendment. the amendment again is a signal to the world that the principal of mfn which served us so well is dead as far as the u.s. senate is concerned.
 on the prices of meat which have run away. hence the freeze in this amendment would adversely affect pricing of other raw agricultural products which have  run awayor like feed grains which are too high already. as they impact meat. milk and poultry production. would tend to keep them at these high levels. for these reasons. at this time. my vote must be against this amendment. the question is on agreeing to the amendment offered by the senator from connecticut . the yeas and nays have been ordered. and the clerk will call the roll.
there is a final point i would like to emphasize. . and that is that even while the congress is considering the trade reform act of 1973. meaningful trade negotiations with our major trading partners will be continuing as they have during the proceeding months. for example. the united states made its interest clearly kn as the eec agricultural ministers hammered out an accord in late april on the new level of eec farm prices for the coming 12 months. following what the new york times characterized as "one of the bitterest and most contracted session in the history of the common marlet." a compromise agreement was reached. the new york times news story of april 30. 1973. on this agreement stated: the united states has little to complain about in the accord. what washington feared mostly was a large increase in grain prices. which would tend to check american sales in europe. the increase in grain prices was held to 1 percent. the united states put a good deal of pressure on the europeans to keep the grain price increase within reasonable limits. at one point agricultural secretary butz said publically that any increase at all in common market grain prices would be most "unfortunate". the american pressures combined with the widely recognized need of the europeans to increase livestock production was probably responsible for the decision to raise grain prices very moderately. u.s. negotiators apparently handled this situation very well and they were aided by the inflation that is raging in europe which makes rising food costs a particularly sensitive issue. as it is in the united states. there is an additional area where u.s. negotiators are also making progress with the europeans and this is in the area of "proliferating preferences." without the pressure of u.s. officials. i doubt very much that sir christopher soames who is in charge of external relations for the european community would have stated on april 5: i must also make it clear that the community does  seek to extend its policy of association and preferential trade beyond the limits which history and close geographical links have made necessary. in fact i say quite categorically that the commission. having considered this question. has intention of proposing any additional agreements of a preferential kind with countries which lie outside africa. the mediterrean basin and the list of other developing countries referred to specifically in the treaty of accession. i am  claiming that this statement represents a significant movement. but it does most certainly represent a degree of movement in the right direction. turning to the particularly sensitive area of reverse preferences. sir christopher stated: my next point is that we do  propose to ask for any reverse preferences from anyone. the commission has made it abundantly clear in the paper it adopted yesterday that it believes we should  seek any preferences for our goods as against american goods or japanese goods or those of any other trading country. in my opinion. this also represents progress. finally. it should also been ed that substantial progress has been made over the past year in opening the japanese ecoy to trade and investment. while these steps were long overdue. this does  mean that they are  emously welcomed. in this respect also. let me say that the more than 35 percent realinement of the yen against the dollar since december 18. 1971 should go a long way toward narrowing our substantial trade deficit position with japan and there are already indications that this indeed may be the case. these are the views i wished to share with my colleagues in the congress today as formal congressional action on the trade reform act of 1973 begins.
 is it  a fact that what is putting great emphasis on this matter is the case where there is a small producernamely. a dairy farmerpaying an escalated price for his feed grain. and the repercussions are  only to city dwellers in terms of price. but also to other agricultural producers.
. i think the time has come to put beef. which is currently the only type of food still under control. in line with other meats. i say this because. first. we are talking about a month to 6 weeks and  a system of controls. second. and in view of the first. beef shortages are beginning to appear in all parts of the country. and the american consumer should be given the choice as to whether he or she wants to pay higher prices for eating beef. rather than having this choice dictated by the fact that there is beef for the coming weeks. if i believed that the current holdout of beef from the slaughterhouse by the feeders was simply an attempt to exploit the consumer. and that by holding out and temporarily switching his protein preference to other meats. or fish or cheese. that the consumer would ultimately benefit by forcing demand down egh to lower prices. i would say. "hold out. mr. and mrs. consumer." however. this is  the case. the reason that cattle are being held off the market until pricing conditions are eased is that the continued high cost of feed forces the breeder to wait to sell his cattle until he can get a price that will recoup the cost of feeding them. while we may see a temporary lull in prices on september 12 as supply deluges the market. there is every indication that beef prices will soon go the way of the postfreeze bulge. like those of poultry and pork when recently released from controls. the truth is that until the cost of feeding animals is reduced. the cost of eating meat will remain high. in the meantime. those dependent on the sale of beefthe butchers. drivers. the independent producers and wholesalersare suffering greatly. and if businesses fold during the beef freeze. the result of the reduced competition in the production and sale of beef will ultimately translate into higher prices for the consumer when the freeze is over. right  people are irate and inconvenienced about beef shortages. and they are concerned about the possibility of a black market springing up. therefore. the regulations should be altered and the dollarfordollar passthroughs  permitted on other foodstuffs applied to beef. and i reiterate my views of the need for this administration to take a long. hard look at the agricultural policies which brought us into this grim situation so that the same mistakes are  repeated and we are  again faced with a shortage in the food supply of this country. the farmers of this country have the capacity and the means to feed americans at a reasonable cost. and to respond to the evergrowing demand from abroad. the department of agriculture should be implementing policies designed to foster both of these goalsand in the order in which i have stated them.
i would like to express my strong support for this particular proposal. it is based on a very keen personal experience. as i have been recently. through the socalled famine areas of africa. where this problem is extremely visual and extremely poignant. so i consider it a privilege to join the senator from minnesota in the proposal of this amendment. our operations in the food field. it seems to me.  dominate the whole matter of foreign aid. i hope ultimately the amendment will also be joined by other efforts in- the world food situation. certainly the food situation. involving problems of worldwide scarcity and the hazards which are involved because of the marginal nature of many of the ecoies in terms of food. and which depend so sensitively upon the vagaries of the weather and immediate crop developments and immediate crop realizations. make this amendment. to my mind. extremely attractive and very important in terms of the real purpose of our world aid. which is the subject of this bill. it represents a humanitarian concern by one of the stronger nations on earth in terms of productivity and in terms of resources. we simply can forgo it and remain in a peaceful and working world which is  filled with hatred and resentment. for this reason. and based on the argument which the senator from minnesota has made. which is very informative and helpful. i am privileged to join with him in hoping that this amendment will be accepted by the senate.
. many of us are aware of the terrible tragedy that has struck the six nations of the sahel region of west africa. massive famine  threatens millions of people in this region. because of prolonged drought. and already large numbers have starved to death or died from diseases they have been made susceptible to by extreme malnutrition. it has been estimated that the 24 million people of this area. during this year. may lose 60 percent of their cattle and 50 percent of their grain harvest. only an outstanding multilateral relief effort. in which the united states has actively participated. has saved millions from starvation already. during the august recess i traveled to one of the drought stricken countries. upper volta. in order to determine the extent of the drought and to view the relief efforts for myself. it is difficult for us who live comfortable lives to conceive of the suffering and anguish that exists in the poorest parts of the world. a visit such as i underook must strengthen anyones resolve to back strongly the new foreign aid program by broad functions and to oppose an inward looking policy or to avert our eyes from the needs of our fellow men. i am greatly encouraged by the passage by the senate last week of the new foreign aid bill. which would emphasize agricultural production. population planning. and health. precisely those areas of need so evident on my visit to upper volta. i have cosponsored a bill. s. 2241. with senators humphrey. mcgee. pearson. and kennedy. that would authorize $30 million for relief and rehabilitation in the six west african sahel countries of upper volta. mali. senegal. chad. niger. and mauritania. this is a necessary step to provide funds for the relief effort and begin longrange plans to rehabilitate the drought area. the united states has already provided $4.7 million in fiscal year 1973 for disaster relief in the area. and an additional amount of about $5 million is projected for use in fiscal year i arrived in ouagadougou. the capital of upper volta. on the morning of august 29. 1973. on my arrival i visited an airdrop bagging operation at the airport. u.s. peace corps volunteers. local and red cross volunteers were loading planes in preparation for dropping sorghum gifted by the united states of america from french. belgian. and west german planes into the remote regions of the country. i next visited an indigents center. where the needs of the old and infirm were heartrending. i also visited the central market and a grain sales point as 25 percent of the grain is sold on a cashandcarry system of distribution to the people who are employed and the money is used to underwrite the cost of transporting the grain into the country by truck. during my stay in ouagadougou i met a number of government officials. including the prime minister gerard kango ouedraogo. the government ministers were thoroughly appreciative of american aid and were on excellent terms with the u.s. embassy. much of the credit for this cordial attitude toward the united states must go to the outstanding work of the u.s. ambassador in upper volta. mr. donald easum. also the peace corps was well received and well liked by the ministers. the government ministers and other officials stressed that their primary needs are already emergency millet and sorghum for next year. for. although a new crop is coming in. it will clearly be inadequate for more than a few months because so much of the seed has been used for food. and so many of the cattle have died from starvation. their other important needs are water. for irrigation and well digging. conservation. especially reforestation. and control of black flies. which cause blindness. they infested an area with good soil and resulted in 30 percent of the best farmland being evacuated. i emphasized the humanitarian basis of the aid in my discussions with upper voltan officials. and i urged them to be "humanitarian" in return. most particularly on the convention on terrorism. this appeal to responsible action in the councils of developing countries was well received by the ministers. i commend to my colleagues a thorough analysis of the situation in the west african drought region that senator brooke introduced in the record on october 2. 1973. i also ask unanimous consent that two articles by david ottaway published in the washington post and details on american drought relief aid to upper volta be printed in the record.
as the senator ks. i am very deeply concerned with exports and maintaining exports. and our balance of trade demands it. as a matter of fact. today agricultural exports are critical. we are just mighty lucky that we have them. and that this is the great granary of the world. the only thing i am trying to effect by the two amendments i proposeand i have separated them because they really have a thrust in different directionsthe only thing i am trying to do is give us the tools with which to work. hing else. in other words. if congress is persuaded that an export control is required to avoid a really substantial inflationary impact. which means an impact on price of whatever is our crop situation. for example. there is question about the fact that if we have as low a carryoverand. senator packwood. i hope you will help me because i do  pretend to be an agricultural expert. i am . but i do k something about ecoics and price. and that is the only area in which i speakbut. as i understand it. there could be a very major influence on price with a very low carryover. and that looks like it is indicated for our country. so i have desire whateveri do  think i amof doing anything which in any way prejudices  only the idea of having agricultural exports but their great desirability. with which i thoroughly agree. the only thing i am trying to do is establish criteria which deal with both shortages of supply and inflationary impact. what we do with that will be up to congress or whatever machinery we set up in this law which gives control either to the secretary or to congress. i might say. in advance. that i have been much impressed with the fact that whatever is done in this field should be done by congress. and the next amendment i will propose will be to vest that power in congress rather than in any official. but to allow us to have the recommendations of the appropriate official. however. my purpose in this is solely to recognize that in the new shape we are in. a serious inflationary impact should also be a criterion. we may or may  follow it. but at least it should be recognized as a criterion. and i mean the latter part of your twopart definition. the overall ecoic situation.  strictly the question of what the size of our crop is. how much we have for export. and so forth.
it really would. and that is what i have in mind. it would have to be extraordinary. but we went through one. i mean. when we look at the price of wheat at $6 a bushel from what it was when this grain deal was made. i would point out to the senator that we really. until we begin to debate this bill. have had reaction to that situation in terms of statutory tools.
within 90 days after the beginning of the crop year. the secretary of agriculture shall determine which commodities. if any. subject to the reporting requirement of section 812 of the agricultural act of 1970 are likely to be in short supply. a commodity shall be determined to be in short supply if the secretary of agriculture estimates that the total quantity of the commodity that will be produced in the crop year will be insufficient to provide for anticipated domestic consumption. commercial exports. programed food assistance commitments. disaster relief assistance and other emergency assistance. and for a reasonable carryover at the end of the crop year. the secretary of agriculture. with the concurrence of the secretary of commerce. shall submit his findings to congress. together with a plan or plans to cope with the anticipated shortage. . . if that would sound agreeable to the managers of the bill. i would be willing to forego the first amendment. because. as i say. it will be in conference anyhow.
