mr. pr.esident. i am pleased to e that the senate has just passed a bill which would authorize establishment of the delaware water gap national recreation area. more familiarly kn as tocks island. if this most important legislation is enacted into law. as  seems most likely. the delaware water gap national recreation area would be the first of its kind to be created east of the mississippi river. it would embrace approximately 72.000 acres of new jersey and pennsylvania in the vicinity of the famed delaware water gap. there is a pressing need for additional recreation areas in our region of the country. the theastern united states contains onequarter of the nations population. yet it has only 4 percent of the total recreation acreage in the country. excluding alaska. my own state of new jersey is the most urbanized in the nation with approximately 800 people per square mile. by 1980 it is estimated that the garden state will have had a 50percent rise in population. yet. the amount of our land available for recreation. on a comparative basis. is small. this project  only will greatly enhance the opportunity for recreation in this crowded region. but also will greatly stimulate the ecoy of the areas which border on the proposed site. an estimated 7 million people are expected to visit the delaware water gap national recreation area each year. part of the acreage would be used to create a 37milelong reservoir to be used for water supply. flood control. hydroelectric power and. of course. recreation. in view of the drought which has parched our part of the country for more than 4 years. it is clearly necessary that additional water resources be developed as quickly as possible. the enactment of this legislation will serve that need in a most constructive way. finally. i am pleased to point out this bill contains the provisions of an amendment which i cosponsored. this amendment is designed to prevent the displacement of many families who  have homes on the proposed site of the recreation area. the amendment provides that homeowners in the area be given the right ta hold their property for life. or for a term of  more than 25 years. whichever they may elect. this provision is similar to the tenure rights contained in the cape cod national seashore act.
