the senator from new york would understand from the senator from missouri that he feels. in the case cited by the senator from new york. that.the senator from new york rather exaggerated the conditions which the senator from new york thought he had described earlier to the senator from missouri. the senator from new york was trying to point out the dire consequences which might ensue from a stoppage of work in the coal industry. what i should like to ask the senator from missouri is whether the senator from missouri does  recognize the great psychological force which is inherent in the proposition of the senator from new york. does the senator from missouri think for one moment that labor organizations are going to call a stoppage of work. faced as the employees would inevitably be. with the type of procedure apparent in the plan of the senator from new york.
. this amendment was discussed. to some degree. this foren. i might explain to the members present the gist of it. the current law is that when an xray comes in from the coal mine area. indicating that a miner has black lung disease. it then goes to a section in the department of labor where the government has an opportunity to read the xray again. this is read by what is kn as a b reader. these men are specially trained. having gone through the course at johns hopkins university. they are specially trained.  just to read xrays. but to read xrays of the lungs.
. as unemployment increases and energy prices continue to climb. two benefits of historic preservation take on additional value. preservation work is both labor intensive and energy efficient. compared to many other federal programs. the historic preservation program is modest in size. by any standards. it has made significant contributions to our nation. and i am pleased to lend my support to this resolution.*
. we have before us a request for a supplemental appropriation of $392 million for the black lung benefits program. this. on top of $400 million we have already appropriated. i ask my colleagues to take a close look at this program and the reasons why it is costing 73 percent more than we allotted for it just a year ago. what went wrong with the reforms of 1978. this is the second year in a row that the congress is being asked for a substantial supplemental appropriation for this program. clearly. the black lung benefits program is out of control. i submit for the record the following true stories. example  1: mr. a was employed as a coal miner for 8 years. he was killed at the age of 30 as a result of diving head first into a swimming pool that did  contain any water. the death certificate indicates that the cause of death was a crushed head and fractured neck. records also indicate that mr. a was in good health prior to his death. that he was working regularly as a coal miner and that he had engaged in a baseball game in the evening just prior to his death. according to the labor department. mr. as widow is entitled to black lung benefits. she was sent a check for $19.056 for back payments and receives a monthly stipend of $348. example  2: mr. b was employed actively in a coal mine until his auto accident and death. the cause of death listed on his death certificate as crushed thorax and abdomen. ruptured liver. and abdominal injuries. mrs. b. his widow.  receives full black lung benefitseven though her husband was fully employed in the mine at the time of his death. example  3: mr. c worked regularly in a mine for 22 years. his death. at age 51. was due to suicide as a result of jumping from a hospital window. at first. mr. cs widows application for black lung benefits was denied on the grounds that his death was due to suicide and that he was  totally disabled by pneumonconiosis (black lung disease) at the time of his death. his chest xrays were negative and his chest was deemed "mal." there years after his death. a doctor submitted a report on mrs. cs behalf claiming that he was treating mr. c. for black lung disease and that he was incapacitated from the disease. after the black lung reform amendments of 1978. mrs. cs claim was reviewed. the labor department determined that she was entitled to $20.000 in retroactive benefits and monthly payments of $348. these cases present just a few examples of the many abuses which we sanctioned when we liberalized the black lung benefits program in 1978. the black lung benefits reform act expanded program coverage and liberalized eligibility requirements. for the first time: chest xrays of miners applying for benefits are accepted as evidence of black lung disease. the government can get a second reading of the xray from a government radiologist. any miner who worked for 25 years in or around a mine and died before 1971 is presumed to have died from black lung disease. unless aher cause of death is firmly established. dependent survivors are entitled to lump sum and monthly payments. any coal miner or dependent survivor whose claim for black lung benefits had been previously denied will automatically have their claim reviewed. the definition of "miner" was expanded to include individuals who  only work in a mine but also around a mine. in a coal preparation facility. in coal mine construction and transportation or who was exposed to coal dust in any such employment. and "pneumoconiosis" was redefined to include any respiratory or pulmonary impairment arising out of work in or around a coal mine. let us take a look at what happened to the black lung benefits program since the "reforms" of 1978. there has been an astroical increase in the number of claims filed and approved. leading to costs which have spiraled out of control. black lung benefits paid to disabled miners in 1979 amounted to $729 million. nine times greater than the total paid in the previous 5 years. the government has received 27 percent more claims than originally anticipatedthat is 40.000 additional claims. the approval rate for new claims was anticipated to be 40 percent when the congress considered the black lung benefits reform act in 1977 and 1978. instead. the approval rate is 60 percent. and the approval rate for reopened cases was anticipated to be 3 percent. in truth. the approval rate is 27 percentnine times greater than expected. the black lung trust fund is bankrupt. the trust fund. supported by excise taxes on coal producing companies was intended to finance claims where the miners last employment was before 1970 or where responsible coal mine operator can be identified.  we are being asked to provide $392 million in addition to the $467 million already budgeted for fiscal year 1980. the trust fund is woefully inadequate and there is end in sight to these spiraling costs. we all talk about curbing inflation and government spending until an emotional issue--such as black lung disease--comes along. before too long. a new entitlement program is established for its victims. along with a host of others who qualify because of liberal coverage and eligibility criteria. since black lung benefits are  provided as an entitlement to eligible individuals. congress simply does  have the opportunity to review the program every 2 or 3 years. instead. we are presented with emergency supplemental appropriation requests that are required to meet benefit claims. the carter administration continues to be silent about the runaway. uncontrollable costs of black lung benefits. the labor department was disinterested in helping the labor and human resources committee establish adequate safeguards in the program when the reforms were enacted in 1978. as a result. those who pay for black lung benefits. the taxpayers and coal mine operators. are left without any representation: there are checks and balances in the black lung program. i urge my colleagues and the committee on labor and human resources to take a good. close look at this program. i think that you will agree that the program goes way beyond its laudable intent and deserves a thorough overhaul.
. and let us b elsim.peiet n let us be fair. we must  further debilitate those individuals and familiei who can barely make ends meet  with unemployment on the rise. foot costs high and the energy outlook uncertain. let us  further penalize oui indigent citizens by taking food fron their table. in addition. in view of the administra tions proposal to block grant the low income energy assistance program an( reduce funding by 25 percent. in view of the proposal contained in 8. 100 which temporarily freezes indexing o the standard and shelter care deductions my state. as well as most of the th ern states plagued by long. cold win - ters. will surely suffer. i am hopeful that this amendment will be soundly defeated and that the provision to count state and local energy assistance as well will also be put to rest in conference.
there are two people and one is working at a lower wage than the coal miner. one has a family to support. a mortgage to carry. trying to earn a living where wages such as paid to the coal miner. true. it is more dangerous. are way above anything that that textile worker gets and he loses his job due to a clean air legislation directly. somehow the senator comes up with a theory. and he used the words equity and fairness several times. that it is fair that this individual who has been scraping. along in a modest job. gets thrown out on the street and gets only to be an extension really of unemployment pension. maybe $143 a week or something like that. somebody else gets something like $500 a week for 3 years. where the textile person gets it for 1 year. if the senator can work equity out of that. i would like to hear it.
the answer is yes. i would only depart somewhat. we have  discussed the aspect of deregulation. and it is of deep concern to me. but there is question that the present policies that are being advocated will have a limited effect upon the more fortunate in this country. that is why we say that the fact that we keep on looking at each other in terms of poor. rich. and middle income is a matter that really ans me. and bespeaks the need of leadership. it is the problem for all of us to solve. it is an american problem. a rationing program will require all americans to equally sacrifice in this national effort to reduce our energy consumption.
. i think it is safe to point out that. regardless of action taken here or in conference. the rise which has already been experienced in the area of energy has very clearly impacted upon the weakest elements of our society. be those elements poor in the ecoic sense or on fixed incomes. be they elderlyin other words. those whose income in way has been able to match the tremendous increase in the cost of energy as it manifests itself in their utility bills. as it manifests itself in gasoline costs. et cetera. i suppose the most amazing statement that i hear made whenever i advocate mandatory fuel conservation and rationing is that we do  want rationingwe do  want any world war iitype rationing. i have to point out to my colleagues. and. indeed. to all those in this nation who make that statement. that we have had rationing for 4 years . since the arab oil embargo. the only point that remains to be argued is who is it that has been rationed. for 4 years. the poor people. the elderly. the fixed income people. the lower than moderate income people in this country have been rationed. they have been rationed by price. we already k. in the face of what occurred last winter. that so many people in this category had to turn down their thermostats to the point where many of them actually froze to death. that is  a horror story to incite action on the floor. it actually happened. it is going to happen again. it is  the strong elements of american society that i am concerned with. indeed. they have  contributed anything in the sense of conservation. as witness the increased oil imports. as witness the balanceofpayments deficit. indeed. very indication is that matter what we raise the price of gasoline or heating oil to. a good portion of america can py it. and conservation will be achieved. but that is aher argument for other of my colleagues as they present their amendments here today. what i am concerned about is correcting an inequity that has existed  for 4 years. i ice that. in the previous amendment. a suggestion was made that whatever surplus would come from whatever tax was levied be plowed back into the social security fund. i will lays odds that if we gave a choice today to an elderly couple as to whether they wanted a rise in social security payments or whether they would prefer to have some sort of relief on their utility bill. they would select relief on their utility bill. that is what has been nailing them. i do  agree with the concept of rationing by price to begin with. my colleagues k that. i have introduced and reintroduced measures for mandatory conservationrationingand i have been voted down every time. so it appears that we are going to continue the policy of rationing by price in some form by the legislation we pass here or the legisition that comes out of the conference. to me. that is second best. it would have been far preferable if we had gone ahead and had gasoline station closings. that would have impacted on all of us. it would have been far preferable if each one of us would have had to choose a day of the week when we are  going to drive our car and put an identifying colored sticker on our windshields. but never mind world war ii rationing. every rationing plan that has been going to impact on all americans. obviously. has been very unpopular on this floor. so we are right back where we started from insofar as the previous republican administrations are concerned. we are going to have conservation. we are going to have rationing. but we are going to have it by price. i think it is unfortunate. very frankly. in the united states. that we have chosen that way to go. because. clearly. it means that  all are going to participate in the burden of the solution.
. i believe public input into this decision is important. accordingly. on friday. may 11. i will attend a hearing in burlington. vt.. to be held by the select committee on small business. the committee will ask various witnesses to evaluate the impact of the proposed elimination of the montrealer on new englands ecoy. which is dominated by small business. over 90 percent of businesses in the affected new england states employ less than 50 people. these hearings are particularly important because they will give congress a better understanding of the impact of dots proposed action. formulas and statistics alone will  tell the whole story. the committee will focus on three areas during the course of the hearing. they are: whether dot adhered to its statutory mandate in making its proposal. the impact of the proposed elimination on the tourist industry. and energy considerations.
. this amendment restores the low income home energy assistance to the house level. i realize it is going to be a matter for debate and further thinking in the process itself. and i will ask unanimous consent that the amendment be setaside to permit the committee to continue its work on all other matters.
(for mr. hatch. for himself mr. kennedy. and mr. metzenbaum) proposed an amendment to the bill h.r. 3058. supra. as follows: on page 15. line 17.. before the period. insert a colon and the following: "provided further. that the secretary of labor shall submit to congress . later than february 29. 1988. a report on the status of. and the timeable for. issuance of final regulations concerning selfcontatned selfrescue devices. safety standards for underground coal mine ventilation. safety standards for roof control. standards for dieselpowered equipment in underground coat mines. and safety standards for electricity. explosives and blasting in underground mines".
 nixon. negotiated with the management of the capital transit co. for a year and a half to bring about a change in employment policy. he was ably assisted by jacob seidenberg. executive director of the committee. the district of columbias public utility commission. the district of columbias employment service. and the washington urban league contributed capable technical services to bring about this change. i would indeed be remiss if i did  mention the efforts which my distinguished colleague. the junior senator from maine and his associates on the district of columbia committee. the junior senator from maryland . and the senior senator from oregon played in developing this new policy. as a result of their hearings held last year. they spelled out suggestions to the parties which assisted in working out a solution to this vexing problem. but. above all. i think all of us who are interested in making for better community relations and effecting the proper utilization of qualified manpower are indebted to the present management of the company for its enlightened approach to this troublesome issue. and to the cooperative and understanding attitude of division 689. amalgamated association of street electric railway and motor coach employees of america. afl. the certified collective bargaining agent of the employee who assisted in resolving this matter. the role of all the participants who worked to bring about an amicable resolution of one of the most troublesome issues in the nations capital is just one more example of democracy at work in the best and highest traditions of america.
. the senator from new york wishes to state that the states whose names he read are from the estimates of the department of labor for next year. these estimates were made before we had the energy crisis with us. i am giving the senate the very best factual evidence we have as to- who would benefit from this provision of the law if it were to become the law.
senator nelson points out that the alternative to the legislation which we are offering could also come about by the utilization of the act signed in december 1973 by the president. or a bill which had passed the senate and is awaiting action by the house of representatives. s. 1560. but it is because we do  k whether the house will act and because we wish to make the link with the energy crisis that we introduce this bill at this particular time. . . i propose that the social security tax be graduated. as we do with income tax. and that the rate adjusted at the lower end of the scale for the lowincome wage earners who will bear a disproportionate share of the burden. we should raise the ceiling. thereby making it possible to have a graduated social security tax. finally. we have an emous problem of trade cooperation with the major industrialized nations of the world in respect of energy. in respect of international monetary system. and in respect of trade rules that the world will go by. the world could very easily fall apart right . the common market could be dismantled. these things will happen unless there is a great will to cooperate among the industrialized nations of the world who are meeting this very monday in washington. in the washington energy conference. the senate has already passed a resolution with respect to the agenda of that council which the secretary of state feels could be very helpful to him. there could be dire consequences if we failed to take both skilled and concerted action at this time. . hopefully the measures i introduce today and the other recommendations will enable us to face our ecoic problems with a common concern between the executive and the congress. having been one of those who most advocated the recapture of our power in respect of war and appropriations and the ecoy of the country. i feel it my duty to point this out. exhibrt 1 emergency energy employment assistance
. on february 8. i introduced with nine cosponsors. s. 2993. the emergency energy employment assistance act of 1974. cosponsors of this measure include the chairman of the subcommittee on employment. poverty. and migratory labor. senator nelson.  of the committee on labor and public welfare. on which i serve as ranking miity member. and senators biden. bayh.
. on february 8. i introduced with nine cosponsors. s. 2993. the emergency energy employment assistance act of 1974. there are  13 cosponsors of this measure including  of the committee on labor and public welfare. on which i serve as ranking miity member. and senators bi-
that is what i am referring to. and that is the section that i read to the senator. in the coal act the secretary is given the power under section 503(a). in coordination with the secretary of health. the line of the conditions for such grants. the senator will ice that "the secretary"  means the secretary of labor. then. if the senator will go on down the line of the conditions for such grants. then go on to section (b) : " * * shall approve any application or any modification thereof. submitted under this section by a state. through its official mine inspection or safety agency. which sets forth the programs. policies. and methods to be followed in carrying out the application in accordance with the purposes of subsection (a) ." and so on. it is my construction of that section that by agreement between the secretary of labor and the state. the state may take on the job.  to the exclusion of the secretary of labor.
. i shall explain the amendment. senator domenici is very properly engaged in the energy conference and asked as a courtesy for the managers of the bill to present this amendment in view of the fact that it is acceptable to us and is germane. what the amendment does is to place a 2year limitation on the period during which the statute of limitations is tolled while the department of labor is engaged in conciliation. as required by the act. as we have it in the bill. the tolling period is  limited. in other words. for as long as the department is engaged in conciliation. the statute is tolled. senator domenici feels that there should be some limit upon the overall time during which the statute of limitations is tolled. his amendment places years as that limit. thus. if it is a willful violation. suit must be filed within 4 years from the date of the violation in order to preserve the full amount ol back wages. if it is a willful violation the aggregate period would be more than 5 years. this amendment is acceptable to me. and i believe if senator williams will answer. it is acceptable to him.
this is sort of an antipoverty program. some elements of it would be that. would they . i ask the question because i remember a few years ago we did something in the human resources committee about energy costs as part of the antipoverty program. so my only point is this. i would like to be told if it is experimentaland i would like to have the attention of the senator from louisianaif it is experimental. that our committee which has antipoverty legislation be tied into the experiment so that we can come. also. to a judgment as to whether it in any way affects the antipoverty program. and if so. how. and desirably. et cetera. my feeling for it is very sympathetic because i thoroughly agree with the senator from connecticut that if we freeze to death it is just as bad as if we starve to death. so this is a very meaningful element of whatever we do in that particular field. but i did want to be sure our interests were asserted. as i am the ranking miity member.
