. his chief policy advisers including secretary shultz. fed chairman arthur burns. secretary rogers. and ciep executive director flanigan. and their chief negotiator. treasury under secretary paul volcker. should be commended for the style as well as the substance of this latest resolution of yet aher international monetary crisis. however. i wish to point out that aher devaluation of the dollar only 14 months after the first devaluation of the dollar in our history gives little cause for joy and should be the grounds for considerable domestic soul searching. devaluation renders an adverse judgment regarding our ecoic performance relative to the ecoic performance of the other major industrial powers in the world. in the latest crisis the worlds judgment of the dollar reflects an erosion of confidence in our countrys productivity and technical and marketing skills. devaluation is symptomatic of an illness that seems to have afflicted our society at approximately the same time as the corrosive vietnamese war. devaluation is the international counterpart of such domestic problems as the bluecollar blues. declining worker motivation and the whitecollar woes. devaluation is the result of unsatisfactory performance on the price front and insufficient efforts to increase our nations productivity. devaluation is a slippage of americas ecoic position in the world. devaluation is a signal that the american society should take stock of itself. of its goals and its direction before our bicentennial in 1976. the problems of our own society and productive plant which led to this devaluation must be repaired and repaired soon. our nation. which is becoming increasingly a "have " nation in terms of petroleum and other essential materials and metals. is  directly and profoundly affected by monetary unsettlement. perhaps. in a profound sense. the most important era which is ending for the united states is the era of relative selfsufficiency in terms of many of the products so essential to the running of our industrial plant. i ask unanimous consent that the article by ray vicker which appeared in the wall street journal of february 14. entitled "hurrahs. please. for devaluation" be printed in the record at this point. i also ask unanimous consent that an article which appeared in the new york times which indicates some tactical considerations concerning trade legislation be printed in the record.
