 rightly said was "one of the strong foundation stones of our republic." more specifically. it is a strong foundation stone of our ecoy. for we all recognize that education is the essential ingredient to getting a decent job and to advancing in the world of work. for the poor and the handicapped a good education can mean avoiding a lifetime of dependency on others. the billions in this bill will help such individuals. as they gain so does our beleaguered ecoy. and as we train people and put. them into jobs. we can hope for 6ffsetting reductions in the costs of welfare and unemployment benefits. the funds in the bill also are vitally needed by our states and local school districts which. because of the recession. have been forced to retrench on their own budgets. an adequately funded education bill can help local education officials deal more effectively with their flnancial burdens and avoid still further cutbacks in staff and program. we believe we have developed a bill that is realistic and is commensurate with the needs of education at this time. we believe there is ample justification to override the veto and we urge such a vote.
 had inated and the senate had confirmed its board of directors. the legal services corporation set out quickly and efficiently to fulfill its responsibility to provide equal access to our system of justice for those unable to afford legal counsel. since 1974 alone. more than 10 million poor persons. who were previously denied the opportunity to even discuss a legal matter with an attorney. have been provided with bare minimum access to our judicial system through an expanded program of communitybased legal services offices. the corporation. together with the dedicated staff attorneys in local programswho. incidentally. handle in the vicinity of 350 to 400 cases a year at pay considerably lower than that offered in the private sectorhave. however. only begun to meet the tremendous need for legal assistance. there are still many. many poor persons in some areas of the country in which the corporation has yet to establish legal services programs. the human resources committee recognized the necessity to reach these areas as quickly as possible. in conformance with the plans of the legal services corporation. by authorizing such sums as may be necessary for future years. this legislation has provided those of us on the appropriations committee the authority to carefully scrutinize the timing and rate of future expansion. so that we can indeed guarantee equal access to our system of justice to all americans. but access can hardly be equally guaranteed if we in congress carve out exceptions. restrictions and prohibitions which apply  to the wealthy or those of moderate means. but only to the poor. and these restrictions are often based cxxiii- 2097part 26  upon the particular needs of the poor. but rather upon the vagaries of public opinion. unfortunately. this was our course in 1974. however. after extensive oversight hearings in which the views of the organized bar. poverty groups. labor and many others were expressed. the employment. poverty. and migratory labor subcommittee decided to eliminate many of these illconceived restrictions on legal representation which the original act imposed upon the poor. i wholeheartedly support the committees efforts and hope that my colleagues will join me in endorsing s. 1303. i particularly commend the committee for repealing the prohibition against legal services representation of eligible clients in any school desegregation matter. this prohibition in effect closes off the most legitimate means for the redress of grievances by poor parents desperately concerned about the education of their children. for in some communities. particularly the small and isolated ones. legal services attorneys may be the only counsel available to provide poor parents the opportunity to express their views in ongoing desegregation cases. they may be the only local counsel available to monitor and to enforce the plan of the courts for the desegregation of the local public schools. and in some instances. they may be the only counsel to initiate litigation for the desegregation of our public schools. we all k that the most successful and acceptable desegregation efforts have been those in which the local community works together to develop a plan which will peacefully integrate. rather than disrupt the public schools. such plans take into account the unique needs of the whole community and its various component groups. and fashion remedies which are specifically designed to meet those needs. legal services attorneys. based in the community. kledgeable about its problems and its potential. are probably more able than most to responsibly represent the educational needs of the poverty community in the many actions. compromises and negotiations necessary for the attainment of desegregated schools of proven educational quality. certainly. legal services attorneys have many. many other demands on their time. but they are the ones closest to the poverty community. and it is this community through their representatives on the board of directors of the legal services program which must decide. whether a school desegregation matter requires attorney time and resources. or whether clients are able to secure other legal representation. this is certainly  a decision to be made in washington. and applied to every community in the country. i have disagreed with many of my colleagues in the senate who have sought to limit the authority of the federal government to seek desegregation. but we are talking about something entirely different here. the issue is simply whether parents. seeking legal help in a local community to improve the education for their children. will be able to find a lawyer. i urge you to follow the lead and wisdom of the human resources committee in eliminating the total prohibition on legal services representation of poor parents in any school desegregation matter.
i wish to tell both senators i do  care if you do move ahead if that is the important thing to do. but i want this program made as relevant as possible to the taxpayers money being spent in manpower. we have a $2 billion bill proposed in the committee on labor and public welfare and we may learn a lot from this $3.5 million experience. as senators k. and i have had support from them. i have fought for the summer job program. again. there is a relevancy but let us  treat this as some isolated effort. i am  jealous of our jurisdiction. let us get the benefit of manpower training just as you should get it in other departments.
. 10 years ago today a landmark piece of education legislation was enacted. april 11. 1975 marks the tenth anniversary of the landmark elementary and secondary educacation act. this law. after a decade of accomplishment. is still the basis of federal aid to virtually every school child in america. esea clearly established a broad foundation for the major federal role in assisting state and local governments deliver education services to every american. the 1965 act built upon earlier limited purpose federal education legislation. particularly the national defense education act of 1958. however. it is the 1965 act with its several extensions and amendments that stands at the center of the federal commitment to advance education. among republican senators. i find that i am the only member of the labor and public welfare committee who was serving in 1965 and is currently still on this committee. a number of able legislators in the senate. and in the house of representatives. should be praised for their contributions to the elementary and secondary education act. the fruitful results of their efforts in originating and refining this act should be widely recognized.
