 kennedys challenge to every american "ask  what your country can do for youask what you can do for your country." long ago. as our forefathers before him. dr. wells with true personal patriotism and sincere love of country. dedicated his life to the preservation and advancement of the american way of life. the credo of the american way of life of freedoms foundation is an inspiration for every american: "to personally understand and maintain the american way of life. to ho it by his own exemplary conduct. and to pass it intact to succeeding generations. is the responsibility of every true american." in 1949. dr. wells began freedoms foundation. selecting for its site. that historic shrine of our american freedom. valley forge. pennsylvania. the continental armys winter quarters and general washingtons headquarters seemed a fitting place from which to reawaken and remind all americans of their individual duty and responsibility for helping to safeguard our american heritage and to preserve it for future generations. since that time. freedoms foundation has steadily grown to include the campus of american freedom center. the congressional medal of ho grove. the faith of our fathers chapel at the valley forge site and a variety of living. action programs. sixty patriotic. civic and veteran organizations. the national judiciary and outstanding americans from all walks of life embrace the activities of freedoms foundation. in all of these untiring efforts. dr. wells is a truly contemporary "paul revere." traveling the length and breadth of our great country. arousing his fellow americans to the neverending need for safeguarding and preserving liberty. freedom and justice for all. a truly unselfish patriot. he offers unstintingly his understanding. experience and leadership to his fellow americans in the important work of assuring that america will take from the best of its past to insure the realization of a future. true to the ideals of american freedom. amvets of america. as citizens and veterans who have made their own contribution and sacrifice defending the american way of life. with conviction. ho and valor. are privileged to recognize the continuing and outstanding record of dr. kenneth d. wells in the service of his fellow americans and our beloved country. with the presentation of amvets americanism award.
. i should like to interrupt for a few moments the deliberations of this body to make e of the fact that 10 years ago tomorrow the guns of war sounded as german troops invaded polish soil. i e this anniversary  merely for the purpose of sorrowful remembrance. as it marked the beginning of a holocaust that left few american families untouched. but rather because it offers an opportunity for us to extend a positive message of hope and courage to the presently enslaved polish people. today. on the eve of this anniversary. the people of poland are once more struggling for freedom from totalitarian domination. the battle that was begun with the historic defense of warsaw. continued on the battlefields of tobruk and arnheim.  rages fiercely in thousands of polish hearts as they rebel against communist domination. we in the united states living in the last bastion of human freedom and hope in the worldmust be increasingly aware of the similar struggles of enslaved people wherever they may live. in the names hallowedof polish men and women who fought and died with our forces in the european conflict. let us extend to the people of poland a message of faith and courage on this historic anniversary. the thoughts most prominent in my mind at this point are most eloquently expressed by that great english poet percy shelley in the last lines of his poem prometheus unbound: to love and bearto hope till hope creates from its own wreck the thing it contemplates. with this message of faith goes also our hope that the councils of nations will bring justice to this great peopleonce our allies and  enslaved.
. i believe mr. dawsons claims can withstand any rational. objective evaluation of his implementation of section 404. mr. dawson argues that section 404 jurisdiction over our nations waters has  been changed and that army and epa are closer than ever before to reaching a consensus on this issue. but. in fact. mr. dawson has been responsible for casting uncertainty over the types of waters and activities that are covered by section 404 and for allowing each of his district engineers to reach independent judgments on the extent of the congressionally established jurisdiction of the program. early in mr. dawsons tenurejanuary 13. 1982the department of the army published a ice in the federal register which stated that "(t)he reform effort is targeted toward modifying the jurisdictional extent of the program." more than a month later the corps wilmington district engineer was forced to admit that "(t)he prevailing uncertainty over jurisdictional extent of the law is perhaps one of our own making because of our seeking. through nationwide permits and other means. a justification for limiting the jurisdiction of the clean water act to some boundary less than the full breadth of the wetlands found in the term all waters of the united states." a little more than a year later. on may 12. 1983. mr. dawson personally approved proposed changes in armys section 404 regulations that greatly heightened this uncertainty over the programs jurisdiction. his proposal defined terms within the regulatory definition of wetlands in a way that would exclude approximately two thirds. or 60 million acres. of the wetlands in the lower 48 states from the jurisdiction of the clean water act. this dawson proposal was opposed strongly by 39 agencies in 33 states. by the epa. by virtually every major national conservation organization. by many state and local organizatiot. bs professional societies and by more than 1.000 concerned scientists. yet it still has  been formally withdrawn. mr. dawsons unstated intentions with regard to finalizing. changes in the corps regulatory wetland definition continues to this day the uncertainty over the extent of section 404s protection for our nations wetlands. for instance. i am sure my colleagues from wisconsin will have quite a bit more to say about their states concerns over mr. dawsons plans for his may 12. 1983 proposal. most recently. mr. dawson continued his efforts to cast doubt on the reach of section 404 over our wetlands when he volunteered at the first oversight hearing held by the subcommittee on environmental pollution on may 21 of this year that "(t)he congress has never addressed the issue of wetland jurisdiction. we believe the issue of wetland jurisdiction of the cwa demands appropriate legislative direction." well. as i told mr. dawson at that time. i dont k who told him that. but he ought to read the legislative history of the 1977 clean water act amendments. he might also try reading the recent supreme court brief of this administrations justice department which states that the "conclusion that it is  clear that congress wanted the corps to exercise the broadest possible jurisdiction over the nations wetlands is simply untenable when examined in light of the legislative history." nevertheless. 8years after congress expressly stated that section 404 applies to wetlands without limitation. mr. dawson maintains that the limit of armys jurisdiction over wetlands is unclear. mr. dawson invokes this supposed jurisdictional. uncertainty as a means of avoiding regulation of some of this nations most vital wetlands for ducks. geese and other migratory birds. mr. dawson asserts that congress lacks authority under the commerce clause of the. constitution to regulate some of these watersoften called isolated wetlands because they have direct surface connection to streams and riversbecause they supposedly have an insufficient impact on interstate commerce. this attempt to eliminate isolated wetlands from section 404 jurisdiction iges the fact that in the last 50 years the supreme court has never invalidated a federal statute on the ground that it exceeded congress power under the commerce clause. in the first three oversight hearings mr. dawson repeatedly evaded the question of whether use of. isolated wetlands by migratory birds establishes a sufficient connection to interstate commerce to allow congress to regulate these waters under the commerce clause. mr. dawson insisted that it would be improper for him to provide corps field personnel with any guidance on whether migratory bird useparticularly use by ducks and geesebrought isolated wetlands within section 404s coverage. epa. on the other hand. maintained that use or potential use of isolated wetlands by migratory birds creates a sufficient basis for jurisdiction under section 404.. finally. after 6 months of effort by senator mitchell and myself. mr. dawson at the fourth oversight hearing appeared to agree with epas and the justice departments position that migratory bird use or potential vse establishes section 404 . jurisdiction. in fact. i left that hearing thinking that mr. dawson had abandoned his position of allowing corps field personnel to decide on a casebycase basis whether destruction of isolated wetlands has sufficient impact on interstate commerce to establish jurisdiction. but then less than. a month later. mr. dawson wrote in support of a corps decision refusing to assert jurisdiction over an isolated wetland which had been discussed in three of the four oversight hearings. that decision. rendered only 2 weeks before the fourth hearing in september. found that destruction of a 30acre isolated wetland with documented waterfowl use would have impact on interstate commerce. - according to mr. dawson. congress can regulate this pond which was used over the course of a year by thousands of individual members of more than 50 migratory bird species. including at least a dozen waterfowl species subject to hunting. because the impact on interstate commerce is too trivial. mr. dawson iges the fact that the destruction of isolated wetlands nationwide has a substantial impact on interstate commerce. this destruction is largely responsible for record low levels of many duck species. which in turn has necessitated sharp cutbacks in waterfowl hunting. seasons this year. which in turn has a substantial effect on interstate commerce. mr. dawsons support for that corps decision is flatly inconsistent with the positions taken by epa and the justice department. and it flies in the face of more than 50 years of supreme court case law on the extent of congress authority under the commerce clause. under mr. dawsons leadership. the corps is being encouraged to assume that they do  have jurisdiction over isolated wetlands unless proven otherwise. other federal agency operates this way. we can afford to have mr. dawson run the section 404 program this way. at stake is the protection of approximately 13 million acres of isolated wetlands which are essential to maintaining our ducks. geese. and other migratory birds. these waters often are just as important to the public for controlling flooding and recharging underground water supplies. so. when protection of an isolated wetland is in question. mr. dawson takes the narrow and completely unsupported view that congress can prevent the destruction of an isolated wetland unless it is proven that more than a trivial impact on interstate commerce would result. yet when development of a wetland for.a project that does  need to be in or near water is in question. mr. dawson supports a broad and overly forgiving interpretation of section 404s environmental regulations. for instance. mr. dawson has presided over an emerging policy that disregards the socalled "water dependency test" in the corps regulations and epas section 404(b)(1) guidelines. section 404(b)(1) prohibits the corps from issuing permits for wetland fills except in compliance with regulations promugated by epa. the water dependency test is the key standard in epas 404(b)(1) guidelines which prohibits the unnecessary destruction or alteration of wetlands where practicable alternative sites are available or where the project need  be located in a wetland to meet its objectives. that is. is  water dependent. construction of a marina is water dependent. whereas construction of a shopping mall is . mr. dawson argues that he approved making epas 404(b)(.1) guidelines explicitly mandatory. and that under his tenure it is more difficult for permit applications to pass the 404(b)(1) analysis. however. it was mr. dawson who pressed epa back in ember 1982 to relegate their 404(b)(1) guidelines to an advisory status so that the corps would longer be bound by epas requirements in making decisions on permit applications. he argued further at that time that epa should abolish the water dependency test altogether. it was william ruckelshaus who convinced the administration that mr. dawsons recommended changes were illadvised. thus. epas guidelines remain mandatory in spite of mr. dawsons best efforts.  because of them. nevertheless. mr. dawson. undaunted. continues his attack on the water dependency test. testifying on may 21 that this fundamental precept of the section 404 program "for the most part. serves little purpose in the analysis of an application under section 404. it often confuses the issues rather than promotes an objective analysis." quite to the contrary. the immense value of wetlands and the stunning rate at which these resources are being destroyed certainly justify the presumption against development in wetlands. further. private investors. aware of the presumption and difficulty it would cause in securing a section 404 permit for certain projects that are  water dependent have sought alternative sites. thus. the present epa environmental guidelines have influenced expectations. changes in the guidelines. such as those recommended by mr. dawson. would alter those expectations and could undo the longterm protection of wetlands. unsuccessful at getting epa to remove the water dependency7 test from its own environmental regulations. mr. dawson instead has supervised the reinterpretation of those regulations by the corps of engineers in the context of a specific permit application to build a mall in 30 acres of wetlands near attleboro. ma. in this particular case the corps new england division engineer decided that a permit to construct the mall should be denied because it was  water dependent and a viable. alternative upland site was available only 3 miles away. but before a final decision was made. corps officials in washington made the extremely unusual request to review the permit application. one month later the new england division engineer was directed to "reconcile your documentation with the guidance" from washington and issue the permit. principally because of the applicants pledge to build a replacement wetland somewhere else. the decision to issue the permit by corps headquarters was based on the rationale that the applicants offer of mitigation did away with the need to comply with the presumption in epas regulations. which assumes that practicable alternatives for water dependent projects such as shopping malls are available unless clearly demonstrated otherwise. a study contracted by the new england division engineer demonstrated that such an alternative did exist. instead the attleboro mall developers were allowed. in effect. to purchase an exemption from the requirements of epas environmental guidelinesa result remarkably consistent with mr. dawsons earlier recommendation that such requirements be dropped from the guidelines. if fact. to ige the water dependency test and grant a permit based on a pledge to build a replacement wetland would turn section 404 from a wetland protection statute into a wetland removal statute. . mr. dawson argues that he has had personal involvement in any substantive decision in the attleboro case. but thats hardly the point. as the acting assistant secretary of the army for civil works. mr. dawson is the civilian primarily responsible for overseeing the corps of engineers implementation of section 404. he has served in that capacity for 14 months and he is thus answerable for actions taken by the corps regardless of whether he is personally responsible for them. it is his duty as acting assistant secretary to ensure that the corps faithfully executes section 404. i believe mr. dawson has failed in that duty by allowing a new precedent to be advanced that would permit wetlands to be destroyed by water dependent projectsmalls. condominiums. business office complexeseven though the wetland losses were avoidable. the lingering dispute over the definition of fill material is aher area where mr. dawson has failed as acting assistant secretary to rectify situations where the corps is obviously failing to enforce the law. in contrast to the clean water acts express prohibition of unpermitted discharges of all fill material in waters of the united states. mr. dawson refuses to revise armys definition of fill material which exempts discharges of fill that are accidential or that are "primarily to dispose of waste." mr. dawson contends that such fills should be regulated under section 402 of the clean water act and the npdes program for effluent limitations. hing in the clean water act indicates a congressional intent to exclude such discharges from section 404 regulation and. in fact. the army definition is in violation of the plain language of section 404(a) and as such is invalid. yet the only reason mr. dawson offered at the june 10 oversight hearing before the subcommittee on environmental pollution for refusing to modify armys limited definition of fill material was "we feel we have the expertise to deal with the fill question when that is the primary purpose." mr. dawson did concede that "it is  always easy to say what that primary purpose is and what may be an initial primary purpose may evolve into some other purpose later on." mr. dawsons contention that solid waste fills are regulated under section 402 is belied by epas insistence that their "position has been consistently that fill should be regulated under section 404. whatever the purpose of that fill." epa maintains that mr. dawsons "primary purpose" test is unworkable administratively because the "primary purpose" in any given situation may be unidentifiable. in addition. the test makes sense because adverse environmental impacts from a fill are unrelated to the dischargers intent and therefore the line drawn by mr. dawson is arbitrary. let me give you two brief examples. in pennsylvania a paper company was discharging over 120 tons of fly and bottom ash daily into a wetland without a section 404 permit. when the state fish commission wrote the corps about the effects of this unpermitted discharge on aquatic life. the corps responded that the "discharge of material primarily for waste disposal does  constitute a discharge of fill material. consequently. violation of section 404 has occurred and the (corps) district is  taking any enforcement action." in idaho. a power company blasted an access road across the face of a cliff above the snake river. the blasting caused rock material to slide into the river. destroying 23 acres of riverbank vegetation and abstructing more than half of the river channel. the corps in this case found that the company had  intended to fill the river. that is. it was "accidental." and therefore the discharge did  meet the corps definition of fill material. mr. dawson inherited this dispute over solid waste disposals in wetlands and other waters. but he has presided over armys continued refusal to regulate these discharges for the past 41/2 years and they remain largely unregulated to this day. on february 10. 1984. as part of an agreement to settle a lawsuit brought by 16 conservation organizations. mr. dawson agreed to publish a final joint definition of fill material with epa within 120 days. when that deadline was missed. mr. dawson signed a sworn statement in u.s. district court that he would promulgate a joint definition with epa by may 15. 1985. when that deadline was missed. mr. dawson told senator mitchell and myself on july 15. 1985. that a new schedule had been established that would provide a definition by january 1986. but when i ind senator mitchell met with mr. dawson on ember 12. twothirds of the way toward the new deadline. he was unable to report any substantive -progress toward a new definition. i must say that i have little confidence that mr. dawson will agree to changes in the armys definition of fill material by the end of this month. in the meantime. the burden falls to epa to use its enforcement authority under section 309 of the clean water act to prohibit completely accidental fills and solid waste disposal discharges in wetlands and other waters. epa is poorly equipped to regulate these discharges because. contrary to what mr. dawson tries to argue. congress never intended that they assume this responsibility. in yet aher area of problems in the recent administration of the section 404 program. mr. dawson has argued that the memoranda of agreement imoaj between army and the federal resource agencies. which are established under section 404(q). are "clearly the responsibility of the executive branch and should  be the subject of confirmation hearings." although the army has primary daytoday responsibility for the 404 program. interior. commerce. and epa also review 404 permit applications. prior to 1982 disagreement between these agencies and army over the resource impacts of a permit resulted in elevation of a permit under the 404(q) moa to higher administrative levels within the army for idditional substantive review. however. in 1982 army and interior. commerce and epa signed a new moa that gave the assistant army secretary discretion over whether to conduct additional review. and greatly restricted the review agencies ability to protect fish and wildlife and water quality. after the signing of the 1982 agreements. the army refused the majority of the requests by the federal resource agencies to elevate disputes to higher level officials. former assistant interior secitary g. ray arnett has been a vocal and harsh critic of the moa which was in effect between army and interior from july 1982 to ember of this year. for example. on ember 7. 1984. assistant interior secretary arnett wrote mr. dawson after 2 years of having his departments views iged. "it is  abundantly clear that further correspondence on this issue is pointless and that armys regulatory program is so flawed. it is longer a useable tool to adquately protect wetlands." epa. under william ruckelshaus and lee thomas. was so dissatisfied with its moa with army that epa terminated it. an option interior did  have in their agreement. mr. dawson. on the other hand has been a staunch supporter of the 1982 moa with interior and epa and has prevented revisions to provide adequate protection for the aquatic environment. on may 21. ray arnett appeared before the subcommittee on environmental pollution and reaffirmed his belief that problems with the 1982 moa "prevented adequate protection of the environment." the two key problems identified by both ray arnett and bill ruckelshaus were that the 1982 moa failed to allow elevation of permit decisions based on concerns for impacts to resources and failed to insure that epa and interior would be able to obtain further review when their assistant administrator or assistant secretary made such a request. despite mr. dawsons belief that the moa should  fall within congress purview. the subcommittee did intervene actively over the past 6 months to address the concerns of interior and epa. as a result. i can tell you that new moa have been signed with army. the agencies are in agreement. unfortunately. the problems identified by ray arnett and bill ruckelshaus remain largely uncorrected. mr. dawson has successfully retained his authority to unilaterally determine whether to conduct further permit review. in my opinion. his refusal to relinquish this excessive authority continues to jeopardize the 404 programs ability to provide adequate environmental protection. mr. dawsons attempt to avoid regulation of isolated and other wetlands and accidental and solid waste discharges and to prevent further review of environmentally questionable permit decisions are some of the most egregious examples of why he should  be confirmed as assistant secretary. regrettably. they are  the only examples of his lack of commitment to the goals of section 404. for instance. the subcommittee on environmental pollution also spent some time looking at problems with enforcement of section 404. mr. dawson claims that it is more difficult  than ever before to get a permit. that claim is based on his statistics showing an increase in rate of permit denials from 4 percent to 5 percent under his tenure. quite apart from the fact that this is hardly a dramatic increase. it also is very unrevealing. the
. i believe mr. dawsons claims can withstand any rational. objective evaluation of his implementation of section 404. mr. dawson argues that section 404 jurisdiction over our nations waters has  been changed and that army and epa are closer than ever before to reaching a consensus on this issue. but. in fact. mr. dawson has been responsible for casting uncertainty over the types of waters and activities that are covered by section 404 and for allowing each of his district engineers to reach independent judgments on the extent of the congressionally established jurisdiction of the program. early in mr. dawsons tenurejanuary 13. 1982the department of the army published a ice in the federal register which stated that "(t)he reform effort is targeted toward modifying the jurisdictional extent of the program." more than a month later the corps wilmington district engineer was forced to admit that "(t)he prevailing uncertainty over jurisdictional extent of the law is perhaps one of our own making because of our seeking. through nationwide permits and other means. a justification for limiting the jurisdiction of the clean water act to some boundary less than the full breadth of the wetlands found in the term all waters of the united states." a little more than a year later. on may 12. 1983. mr. dawson personally approved proposed changes in armys section 404 regulations that greatly heightened this uncertainty over the programs jurisdiction. his proposal defined terms within the regulatory definition of wetlands in a way that would exclude approximately two thirds. or 60 million acres. of the wetlands in the lower 48 states from the jurisdiction of the clean water act. this dawson proposal was opposed strongly by 39 agencies in 33 states. by the epa. by virtually every major national conservation organization. by many state and local organizatiot. bs professional societies and by more than 1.000 concerned scientists. yet it still has  been formally withdrawn. mr. dawsons unstated intentions with regard to finalizing. changes in the corps regulatory wetland definition continues to this day the uncertainty over the extent of section 404s protection for our nations wetlands. for instance. i am sure my colleagues from wisconsin will have quite a bit more to say about their states concerns over mr. dawsons plans for his may 12. 1983 proposal. most recently. mr. dawson continued his efforts to cast doubt on the reach of section 404 over our wetlands when he volunteered at the first oversight hearing held by the subcommittee on environmental pollution on may 21 of this year that "(t)he congress has never addressed the issue of wetland jurisdiction. we believe the issue of wetland jurisdiction of the cwa demands appropriate legislative direction." well. as i told mr. dawson at that time. i dont k who told him that. but he ought to read the legislative history of the 1977 clean water act amendments. he might also try reading the recent supreme court brief of this administrations justice department which states that the "conclusion that it is  clear that congress wanted the corps to exercise the broadest possible jurisdiction over the nations wetlands is simply untenable when examined in light of the legislative history." nevertheless. 8years after congress expressly stated that section 404 applies to wetlands without limitation. mr. dawson maintains that the limit of armys jurisdiction over wetlands is unclear. mr. dawson invokes this supposed jurisdictional. uncertainty as a means of avoiding regulation of some of this nations most vital wetlands for ducks. geese and other migratory birds. mr. dawson asserts that congress lacks authority under the commerce clause of the. constitution to regulate some of these watersoften called isolated wetlands because they have direct surface connection to streams and riversbecause they supposedly have an insufficient impact on interstate commerce. this attempt to eliminate isolated wetlands from section 404 jurisdiction iges the fact that in the last 50 years the supreme court has never invalidated a federal statute on the ground that it exceeded congress power under the commerce clause. in the first three oversight hearings mr. dawson repeatedly evaded the question of whether use of. isolated wetlands by migratory birds establishes a sufficient connection to interstate commerce to allow congress to regulate these waters under the commerce clause. mr. dawson insisted that it would be improper for him to provide corps field personnel with any guidance on whether migratory bird useparticularly use by ducks and geesebrought isolated wetlands within section 404s coverage. epa. on the other hand. maintained that use or potential use of isolated wetlands by migratory birds creates a sufficient basis for jurisdiction under section 404.. finally. after 6 months of effort by senator mitchell and myself. mr. dawson at the fourth oversight hearing appeared to agree with epas and the justice departments position that migratory bird use or potential vse establishes section 404 . jurisdiction. in fact. i left that hearing thinking that mr. dawson had abandoned his position of allowing corps field personnel to decide on a casebycase basis whether destruction of isolated wetlands has sufficient impact on interstate commerce to establish jurisdiction. but then less than. a month later. mr. dawson wrote in support of a corps decision refusing to assert jurisdiction over an isolated wetland which had been discussed in three of the four oversight hearings. that decision. rendered only 2 weeks before the fourth hearing in september. found that destruction of a 30acre isolated wetland with documented waterfowl use would have impact on interstate commerce. - according to mr. dawson. congress can regulate this pond which was used over the course of a year by thousands of individual members of more than 50 migratory bird species. including at least a dozen waterfowl species subject to hunting. because the impact on interstate commerce is too trivial. mr. dawson iges the fact that the destruction of isolated wetlands nationwide has a substantial impact on interstate commerce. this destruction is largely responsible for record low levels of many duck species. which in turn has necessitated sharp cutbacks in waterfowl hunting. seasons this year. which in turn has a substantial effect on interstate commerce. mr. dawsons support for that corps decision is flatly inconsistent with the positions taken by epa and the justice department. and it flies in the face of more than 50 years of supreme court case law on the extent of congress authority under the commerce clause. under mr. dawsons leadership. the corps is being encouraged to assume that they do  have jurisdiction over isolated wetlands unless proven otherwise. other federal agency operates this way. we can afford to have mr. dawson run the section 404 program this way. at stake is the protection of approximately 13 million acres of isolated wetlands which are essential to maintaining our ducks. geese. and other migratory birds. these waters often are just as important to the public for controlling flooding and recharging underground water supplies. so. when protection of an isolated wetland is in question. mr. dawson takes the narrow and completely unsupported view that congress can prevent the destruction of an isolated wetland unless it is proven that more than a trivial impact on interstate commerce would result. yet when development of a wetland for.a project that does  need to be in or near water is in question. mr. dawson supports a broad and overly forgiving interpretation of section 404s environmental regulations. for instance. mr. dawson has presided over an emerging policy that disregards the socalled "water dependency test" in the corps regulations and epas section 404(b)(1) guidelines. section 404(b)(1) prohibits the corps from issuing permits for wetland fills except in compliance with regulations promugated by epa. the water dependency test is the key standard in epas 404(b)(1) guidelines which prohibits the unnecessary destruction or alteration of wetlands where practicable alternative sites are available or where the project need  be located in a wetland to meet its objectives. that is. is  water dependent. construction of a marina is water dependent. whereas construction of a shopping mall is . mr. dawson argues that he approved making epas 404(b)(.1) guidelines explicitly mandatory. and that under his tenure it is more difficult for permit applications to pass the 404(b)(1) analysis. however. it was mr. dawson who pressed epa back in ember 1982 to relegate their 404(b)(1) guidelines to an advisory status so that the corps would longer be bound by epas requirements in making decisions on permit applications. he argued further at that time that epa should abolish the water dependency test altogether. it was william ruckelshaus who convinced the administration that mr. dawsons recommended changes were illadvised. thus. epas guidelines remain mandatory in spite of mr. dawsons best efforts.  because of them. nevertheless. mr. dawson. undaunted. continues his attack on the water dependency test. testifying on may 21 that this fundamental precept of the section 404 program "for the most part. serves little purpose in the analysis of an application under section 404. it often confuses the issues rather than promotes an objective analysis." quite to the contrary. the immense value of wetlands and the stunning rate at which these resources are being destroyed certainly justify the presumption against development in wetlands. further. private investors. aware of the presumption and difficulty it would cause in securing a section 404 permit for certain projects that are  water dependent have sought alternative sites. thus. the present epa environmental guidelines have influenced expectations. changes in the guidelines. such as those recommended by mr. dawson. would alter those expectations and could undo the longterm protection of wetlands. unsuccessful at getting epa to remove the water dependency7 test from its own environmental regulations. mr. dawson instead has supervised the reinterpretation of those regulations by the corps of engineers in the context of a specific permit application to build a mall in 30 acres of wetlands near attleboro. ma. in this particular case the corps new england division engineer decided that a permit to construct the mall should be denied because it was  water dependent and a viable. alternative upland site was available only 3 miles away. but before a final decision was made. corps officials in washington made the extremely unusual request to review the permit application. one month later the new england division engineer was directed to "reconcile your documentation with the guidance" from washington and issue the permit. principally because of the applicants pledge to build a replacement wetland somewhere else. the decision to issue the permit by corps headquarters was based on the rationale that the applicants offer of mitigation did away with the need to comply with the presumption in epas regulations. which assumes that practicable alternatives for water dependent projects such as shopping malls are available unless clearly demonstrated otherwise. a study contracted by the new england division engineer demonstrated that such an alternative did exist. instead the attleboro mall developers were allowed. in effect. to purchase an exemption from the requirements of epas environmental guidelinesa result remarkably consistent with mr. dawsons earlier recommendation that such requirements be dropped from the guidelines. if fact. to ige the water dependency test and grant a permit based on a pledge to build a replacement wetland would turn section 404 from a wetland protection statute into a wetland removal statute. . mr. dawson argues that he has had personal involvement in any substantive decision in the attleboro case. but thats hardly the point. as the acting assistant secretary of the army for civil works. mr. dawson is the civilian primarily responsible for overseeing the corps of engineers implementation of section 404. he has served in that capacity for 14 months and he is thus answerable for actions taken by the corps regardless of whether he is personally responsible for them. it is his duty as acting assistant secretary to ensure that the corps faithfully executes section 404. i believe mr. dawson has failed in that duty by allowing a new precedent to be advanced that would permit wetlands to be destroyed by water dependent projectsmalls. condominiums. business office complexeseven though the wetland losses were avoidable. the lingering dispute over the definition of fill material is aher area where mr. dawson has failed as acting assistant secretary to rectify situations where the corps is obviously failing to enforce the law. in contrast to the clean water acts express prohibition of unpermitted discharges of all fill material in waters of the united states. mr. dawson refuses to revise armys definition of fill material which exempts discharges of fill that are accidential or that are "primarily to dispose of waste." mr. dawson contends that such fills should be regulated under section 402 of the clean water act and the npdes program for effluent limitations. hing in the clean water act indicates a congressional intent to exclude such discharges from section 404 regulation and. in fact. the army definition is in violation of the plain language of section 404(a) and as such is invalid. yet the only reason mr. dawson offered at the june 10 oversight hearing before the subcommittee on environmental pollution for refusing to modify armys limited definition of fill material was "we feel we have the expertise to deal with the fill question when that is the primary purpose." mr. dawson did concede that "it is  always easy to say what that primary purpose is and what may be an initial primary purpose may evolve into some other purpose later on." mr. dawsons contention that solid waste fills are regulated under section 402 is belied by epas insistence that their "position has been consistently that fill should be regulated under section 404. whatever the purpose of that fill." epa maintains that mr. dawsons "primary purpose" test is unworkable administratively because the "primary purpose" in any given situation may be unidentifiable. in addition. the test makes sense because adverse environmental impacts from a fill are unrelated to the dischargers intent and therefore the line drawn by mr. dawson is arbitrary. let me give you two brief examples. in pennsylvania a paper company was discharging over 120 tons of fly and bottom ash daily into a wetland without a section 404 permit. when the state fish commission wrote the corps about the effects of this unpermitted discharge on aquatic life. the corps responded that the "discharge of material primarily for waste disposal does  constitute a discharge of fill material. consequently. violation of section 404 has occurred and the (corps) district is  taking any enforcement action." in idaho. a power company blasted an access road across the face of a cliff above the snake river. the blasting caused rock material to slide into the river. destroying 23 acres of riverbank vegetation and abstructing more than half of the river channel. the corps in this case found that the company had  intended to fill the river. that is. it was "accidental." and therefore the discharge did  meet the corps definition of fill material. mr. dawson inherited this dispute over solid waste disposals in wetlands and other waters. but he has presided over armys continued refusal to regulate these discharges for the past 41/2 years and they remain largely unregulated to this day. on february 10. 1984. as part of an agreement to settle a lawsuit brought by 16 conservation organizations. mr. dawson agreed to publish a final joint definition of fill material with epa within 120 days. when that deadline was missed. mr. dawson signed a sworn statement in u.s. district court that he would promulgate a joint definition with epa by may 15. 1985. when that deadline was missed. mr. dawson told senator mitchell and myself on july 15. 1985. that a new schedule had been established that would provide a definition by january 1986. but when i ind senator mitchell met with mr. dawson on ember 12. twothirds of the way toward the new deadline. he was unable to report any substantive -progress toward a new definition. i must say that i have little confidence that mr. dawson will agree to changes in the armys definition of fill material by the end of this month. in the meantime. the burden falls to epa to use its enforcement authority under section 309 of the clean water act to prohibit completely accidental fills and solid waste disposal discharges in wetlands and other waters. epa is poorly equipped to regulate these discharges because. contrary to what mr. dawson tries to argue. congress never intended that they assume this responsibility. in yet aher area of problems in the recent administration of the section 404 program. mr. dawson has argued that the memoranda of agreement imoaj between army and the federal resource agencies. which are established under section 404(q). are "clearly the responsibility of the executive branch and should  be the subject of confirmation hearings." although the army has primary daytoday responsibility for the 404 program. interior. commerce. and epa also review 404 permit applications. prior to 1982 disagreement between these agencies and army over the resource impacts of a permit resulted in elevation of a permit under the 404(q) moa to higher administrative levels within the army for idditional substantive review. however. in 1982 army and interior. commerce and epa signed a new moa that gave the assistant army secretary discretion over whether to conduct additional review. and greatly restricted the review agencies ability to protect fish and wildlife and water quality. after the signing of the 1982 agreements. the army refused the majority of the requests by the federal resource agencies to elevate disputes to higher level officials. former assistant interior secitary g. ray arnett has been a vocal and harsh critic of the moa which was in effect between army and interior from july 1982 to ember of this year. for example. on ember 7. 1984. assistant interior secretary arnett wrote mr. dawson after 2 years of having his departments views iged. "it is  abundantly clear that further correspondence on this issue is pointless and that armys regulatory program is so flawed. it is longer a useable tool to adquately protect wetlands." epa. under william ruckelshaus and lee thomas. was so dissatisfied with its moa with army that epa terminated it. an option interior did  have in their agreement. mr. dawson. on the other hand has been a staunch supporter of the 1982 moa with interior and epa and has prevented revisions to provide adequate protection for the aquatic environment. on may 21. ray arnett appeared before the subcommittee on environmental pollution and reaffirmed his belief that problems with the 1982 moa "prevented adequate protection of the environment." the two key problems identified by both ray arnett and bill ruckelshaus were that the 1982 moa failed to allow elevation of permit decisions based on concerns for impacts to resources and failed to insure that epa and interior would be able to obtain further review when their assistant administrator or assistant secretary made such a request. despite mr. dawsons belief that the moa should  fall within congress purview. the subcommittee did intervene actively over the past 6 months to address the concerns of interior and epa. as a result. i can tell you that new moa have been signed with army. the agencies are in agreement. unfortunately. the problems identified by ray arnett and bill ruckelshaus remain largely uncorrected. mr. dawson has successfully retained his authority to unilaterally determine whether to conduct further permit review. in my opinion. his refusal to relinquish this excessive authority continues to jeopardize the 404 programs ability to provide adequate environmental protection. mr. dawsons attempt to avoid regulation of isolated and other wetlands and accidental and solid waste discharges and to prevent further review of environmentally questionable permit decisions are some of the most egregious examples of why he should  be confirmed as assistant secretary. regrettably. they are  the only examples of his lack of commitment to the goals of section 404. for instance. the subcommittee on environmental pollution also spent some time looking at problems with enforcement of section 404. mr. dawson claims that it is more difficult  than ever before to get a permit. that claim is based on his statistics showing an increase in rate of permit denials from 4 percent to 5 percent under his tenure. quite apart from the fact that this is hardly a dramatic increase. it also is very unrevealing. the
. i am delighted with the senates approval yesterday of the conference agreement on military construction appropriations for fiscal year 1989. i am especially pleased that the conferees have seen fit to include $2.060.000 for new construction on the navy justice school legal training building in newport. ri. the naval justice school is the navys only legal training institution. since it was founded in 1946. the school has trained thousands of department of defense personnel in military. civil. and administrative law and procedure. in 14 different courses of study. in 1987 alone. 1.672 students received training at the naval justice school. despite this essential role. its commanding officer states that its physical plant is "inadequate to meet current mission requirements." the existing facility can accommodate necessary curriculum expansion and specialized training programs. many of which are congressionally mandated. because of the lack of classroom space. a number of important courses and seminars this year have been held away from the naval justice school facility in inconvenient and inadequate spaces. the need for improvements became even more acute in late july when the navy annced that the naval investigative service [nis] theast regional office was slated to relocate to newport to a building adjacent to the naval justice school. although the two commands are separate entities. the counterintelligence mission of nis clearly complements the educational role of the naval justice school.  that the two will be neighbors. i anticipate the navy will exploit this partnership and that programs at the naval justice school will be enhanced and expanded as a result. i commend my colleagues for the foresight and understanding of the naval justice schools role they have demonstrated in retaining this important funding.
. i do hope my colleagues and others across the country will read about this and more and more people will become concerned. oh. they are concerned. i should  say people are  concernedthey are concerned. but what to do. some say have a registration of handguns. but that does  take care of the problem. they are still being manufactured. still being sold. still tremendous prevalence of these guns in our society. others say. have different penalties. for example. if a child in a house obtains a handgun. a 4yearold child or a 3yearold childthis has occurred. frequently. a 3yearold child discovered a hidden handgun and shot aher child in the family. or a friend. one of the answers is make the parents subject to a fine for  keeping the weapon under proper security conditions. that is retrospective. meanwhile the child has taken the gun and shot aher child. that is  the solution. i am convinced more and more as my colleagues study this problem they will come to the conclusion the only thing to do is ban them. get rid of them. we will collect them. we will  get them all the first year. we will  get them all from every criminal right away. but eventually we will. because they will  be able to get any more. exhrirr i [from the washington post. aug. 30. 1992]
. when the senate began consideration of the crime bill. i annced my intention to offer an amendment to ban the possessiaon of firearms by persons who are subject to certain restraining orders. i am pleased that my amendment was accepted. and is part of the crime bill package that the senate will approve today. under current federal law. certain persons are banned from possessing a firearm. these "prohibited persons" include convicted felons. drug addicts. illegal aliens. those who have been found mentally incompetent. those who have been dishoably discharged from the armed forces. and those who have renced their u.s. citizenship. my amendment adds to this category those individuals who are subject to a court restraining order for harassing. stalking. threatening. or engaging in other such conduct. and whom the court has deemed a credible threat to aher persons safety. there have been far. far too many dreadful cases in which inent peopleand usually they are womenhave been wounded or killed by a former boyfriend or girlfriend. partner. or other intimate using a gun--despite the fact that the attacker was subject to a restraining order. all of us were shocked and saddened by the terrible death of young kristin lardner. who was shot in boston last year by an exboyfriend against whom a permanent restraining order had been issued 2 weeks earlier. ms. lardner. just 21 years old. had received the restraining order against michael cartier on may 19. and a friend said "she felt very relieved that she had [it]." aher friend said she was "the most optimistio and happiest shed been in months." but in the late aftern of may 30. as she returned to her workplace to meet a friend she was shot from behind by cartier. and died instantly. this bright. intelligent young womankilled by a man who had been stalking her for weeks. and who had been found to be a danger to her by a court. apparently he had bought the murder weapona colt 8--for v750 about 2 weeks before the murder. as horrible and dreadful as ms. lardners death is. even more appalling is the fact that ms. lardners case is  unique. just 3 weeks ago. on october 19. 25yearold kimberly globis of chicago was shot and killed by her former boyfriend. against whom a restraining order was pending. ms. globis applied for and received a court order of protection against him in august. after hd entered her apartment with a knife and after she filed two battery complaints against him. she was due in court the day after she was shot to seek an extension of the order. in my state of rhode island. all of us were horrified by the shooting death of 30yearold marie willis. of middletown. earlier this year. mrs. willis was living in south carolina with her husband. an enlisted man at myrtle beach air force base. she left him and returned to rhode island with her 6yearold son after her husband repeatedly abused her--abuse that included twice choking her in front of her son. and burning her legs with a propane torch. at the urging of the bristol police. mrm willis obtained a restraining order against her husband. on january 3. marie willis flew to myrtle beach to testify at a military evidentiary hearing for a possible courtmartial of her husband. at 8:15 a.m. on january 4. senior airman willis walked into the hearing with a 9millimeter pistol and opened fire. mrs. willis was hit twice in the head and once in the chest. she was pronced dead at the hospital at 11:30 a.m. bristol police described this as "a tragedy that never should have happened." at the funeral. marie willis family said "words can express or describes the amount of grief we feel for the loss of our only daughter and sister. mary ann raft willis." what a *terrible loss for her family and her young son. the deaths of these women are tragedies. and it is particularly tragic that in each of these situations. the woman knew that she was in danger of physical attack and had sought legal protection in the form of a restraining order. yet they remained vulnerable. i might e that it is  easy for women to receive a restraining order. many women file for a restraining order as a last resort. when there seems to be other way to ensure their safety. in part this may be a resuit of the distinctive nature of these disputes: these emotionally charged situations often involve two people who were intimately related and whose relationship has ended or is in the process of ending. or they may involve an individual obsessed with aher parson. be they a friend. an acquantence or a stranger. moreover. the very nature of the conductfollowing. harassing. threateningdoes  automatically result in a restraining order. this is because an action that is quite alarming still may  be illegal. in fact. it may be constitutionally protected action. they mean that women must suffer distressing or even frightening treatment that can be legally prevented until it crosses the line into harmful conduct. even after a court restraining order is issued. this may still be the case: the courts and law enforcement agencies often can act until the harasser violates the restraining order by attacking the woman--and then. especially when a gun is involved. it may be too late. what a terrible catch22. it is that situationwhere there is a restraining order in force against someone who poses a clear threat--that my amendment is intended to address. restraining orders are issued for the -express reason that a woman sincerely believes--and a court agrees- that she is in imminent danger of being harmed. attacked or killed. it therefore is hing short of insanity for federal lawto allow such dangerous persons to possess a gun. and it has lead to the senseless and horrible deaths of many. many young women in this country. my amendment is simple and straightforward. it would ensure that a person whom the court says is a threat may  have a gun during the time that he or she is subject to the restraining order. for those who may argue that a harasser will simply use aher weapon. i would say first of all that that is a ludicrous rationale for arguing in favor of allowing the potential attacker to have a gun. second. consider this: guns are just about the must lethal and efficient weapon around. in fact. studies of weapons involvement and injury outcomes in family or other intimate assaults show that chances of being killed if a gun is involved are 12 times greater than if aher weapon is involved. moreover. a gun can be fired from far away. with some aymity. and without much visual warning. a knife or other weapon requires that the attacker actually approach the victim. which may mean the intended victim has a chance to recognize the attacker and react there simply is rational reason whatsoever to allow persons who have been deemed a clear and present danger to aher person. usually a woman. to have is gun. e at all. hence my amendment.. my amendment by itself can solve the problem of stalking or haramment.  provide an obsolute guarantee of a womans safety. but it will remove weapons that are extremely lethal from the reach of these dangerous persons. and give law enforcement one more tool to combat this terrible problem. and it will give women some assurances that the law will provide some definite protection--and that the law takes their safety and wellbeing seriously. i thank the managers of the bill for their support of this amendment.
. all americans share a deep concern over the continued imprisonment. under uncertain conditions. of american fighting men in southeast asia. repeated attempts to secure their release.-and to insure humane treatment including adequate communication with families and loved ones. have met with little if any real success. recently. the general court of the commonwealth of massachusetts passed a resolution calling upon the congress of the united- states to protest to th vietnam the treatment of american prisoners of war who are  being held by that country. i fully concur in the findings and recommendations of thew massachusetts legislature. and ask unanimous consent that the full text of this resolution be printed at this point in the record. there" being objection. the resolution was referred to thecommittee on foreign. relationsand ordered to be printed in the record.- as"follows:. cxvii--223part 3
. some of the most careful and thoughtful coverage of the courtmartial of lt. william calley has been provided by willam greider. of the washington post. out of his careful attention to the details of this tragic case. mr. greider has distilled a commentary which outlines many of the crucial issues and conclusions concerning this matter. mr. greiders column in todays washington post cuts through the understandable emotion and confusion which have erupted in the aftermath of the courtmartial. his observations are. i believe. essential reading for all americans who value the standards of justice which we as a people have established for ourselves. beyond the moral and legal considerations which require american soldiers to exercise a high degree of selfdiscipline. even in combat. there is the simple pragmatic and humanitarian concern which mr. greider underscores: the united states can scarcely insist on humane treatment for our own men held prisoners of war unless american forces provide humane treatment for prisoners and combatants under their control. i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record.
. the senator ks i have the greatest respect for him and for the senator from kentucky. i k that the amendment of the senator from kentucky is an honest amendment. as my distinguished colleague from new york has said. he has said that this is the moment of truth. but the truth is that there are perhaps thousands of american prisoners of war restings in th vietnamese prison camps at this time. the senators amendment would ask us to pull out all of our troops from southeast asia-
. the senator ks i have the greatest respect for him and for the senator from kentucky. i k that the amendment of the senator from kentucky is an honest amendment. as my distinguished colleague from new york has said. he has said that this is the moment of truth. but the truth is that there are perhaps thousands of american prisoners of war resting in th vietnamese prison camps at this time. the senators amendment would ask us to pull out all of our troops from southeast asia-
the navy is  permitted to pay more than $1.000 under general law. many of the claims involved here call for the payment of more than that amount. they have all been investigated and a complete report on each claim has been made by the navy. as a result of legislation passed in previous congresses we have already paid a lot of claimants as approved by that report in amounts up to $3.000. this would allow the payment of claims so paid but favorably reported in the same investigation including some subrogated claims.
. yesterday. june 15. marked the 18th anniversary of the soviet occupation of lithuania and the subsequent suppression of political and human rights which were so dearly won by the lithuanian people when they gained their shortlived independence on february 16. 1918. in june 1940. the soviet union invaded lithuania and her neighbors. latvia and estonia. and replaced their legitimate governments with puppet regimes which took their orders from the kremlin. at the very beginning of russian occupation of lithuania. the people were opposed to its rule. and numerous resistance organizations were founded. today. lithuanians still yearn for their freedom. both from within and from without their beloved countr.. which still suffers under the yoke of soviet domination. the following excerpt. quoted in an article by stasys zymantas in the june 1956 issue of lituanus magazine. from one of the militant lithuanian underground publications issued during the second world war. clearly explains why the lithuanians still want the return of their hardwon freedom and national independence: we ardently desire to live in a free. independent. and democratic lithuania in which life is based on principles of christian ethics. there are neither slaves. serfs. dictators. satraps.  tyrants. cultural life and creative progress can flourish and prosper. there is law. justice and respect for the fundamental freedoms. we are carrying on the struggle because we want to show to the whole world that there are ideals which can make a giant out of a dwarf. and can inspire such courage and strength that the tyrant is at a loss to crush them because he dares  strangle them openly. we are carrying on the struggle because we believe that it is  only for our own freedom and wellbeing but for that of our brothers. for the ideals of all suffering and oppressed people. for human rights and justice. these are the ideals which the great power of the west have solemnly proclaimed to the whole world. affirming their belief in them during the war by giving the lives of the best sons. by cruel sacrifices. by uniting their powerful forces. and by their joint victory. the value and superiority of these ideals is amply vindicated in the high cultural development of the west and unparalleled social progress. * * * we have  the strength to look with indifference upon the long columns of halfdead prisoners. at the procession of deportees. at russian infiltration into all spheres of our life. creeping into everywhere at the smallest opportunity. we can sit by and watch the systematic impoverishment of our ecoy. the subtle poisoning of the spirit of man. turning human beings into wild beasts with purpose but to live for the day. without pity for the sufferings of others. machines to whom hing is dear. longer recognizing the spiritual values. making a mock of christian ethics. over all is the immeasurable fear. the insecurity of tomorrow expressed in a low cringing servility. the essence of our struggle is freedom. justice. humanity. democracy. christian ethics. and natural human rights. that is why our struggle is our life. and our life is the life of our country. that is why our struggle is a continuation of that which began 2.000 years ago. against the forces of evil.
. matter how much one might wish otherwise. the impact of linkage can be disregarded completely as a psychological aspect of foreign policy. neither the administration  the soviet union will be able to ige important linkages that exist in the minds of americans. we. and the soviet union must take into account what i would call the perceptions of policy. american perceptions of soviet policies can be iged in dealing with such important matters as salt agreements. trade. and human rights. our perceptions of soviet violations of human rights can help but affect our attitudes when it comes to trade credits and salt negotiations. the soviets should understand that how they treat their own people will. in fact. affect our assessment of how they may deal with other nations. events in the soviet union during the past week have been a harsh reminder that moscow has chosen to disregard key elements of the 1975 helsinki accord which they and other members of the warsaw pact signed along with nato nations. the latest disturbing incident occurred with the reports this morning of the detention of yuri orlov. head of a moscow group of soviet citizens monitoring their governments compliance with the helsinki accord. other causes for concern are the ouster of an associated press correspondent and the arrest of alexander ginzburg. a leading dissident and writer who already has served 7 years in prison. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a description of the situation compiled by the staff of the helsinki commission.
reserving the right to object. . and i shall  object. i call attention to an unusual situation which arises as a result of this bill. and perhaps to the growth of a practice of which many of us will disapprove heartily. it amounts to this: by rulings  in effect. german girls who are engaged to american soldiers may also take advantage o: the provisions  of this bill. but of similar provisions. on the theory that american soldiers engaged to german girls should have the benefit of this immigration procedure for their fiances. this bill. which is here on the consent calendar. does  apply to these german girls as it relates only to nationals of countries whose immigration quota ha been exhausted. while the german quota is open. german citizens other than dps and refugees are generally  receiving visas. butand this is the big pointthese german girls get  temporary visas. as do other nationals under the pending bill. but permanent visas. so that when they get into the united states. and if their plans for marriage failand they are required. before getting their visas. to submit proof that they are seriously expecting to marry when they get herethey may stay here as permanent residents. thus they can get a preference over germans other than german dps and refugees. despite the fact that it is our national policy to keep such germans out at the present time. i would. therefore. urge the committee on the judiciary to look into this question very carefully with a view to determining if an amendatory law is required. in order to avoid giving these german girls a better opportunity in entering the united states than is given to th3 flanc~es of gis from other countries which were our allies in world war ii whose quotas are exhausted.
s table a discharge petition for house concurrent resolution 202. to establish a joint congressional committee to be kn as the joint committee on internal security and providing for rules of fair procedure for such a joint committee. a joint committee on internal security will replace in the field of investigating subversion and communism the house committee on unamerican activities and the subcommittee on internal security and the permanent subcommittee on investigations of the other body. the rules of procedure for the joint committee provide for a clear statement. of the legislative objectives sought in the investigations. a major investigation to be undertaken only as approved by a majority of the committee. executive hearings to establish witnesses credibility before public hearings which are likely to result in charges against individuals. the right of witnesses to counsel. the right of the witness or one adversely mentioned by a witness to have ice of this fact to make a reasonable statement in his own defense and to an opportunity for reasonable crossexamination and presentation of affirmative testimony to rebut testimony affecting his reputation adversely. a requirement that individual member of a committee or employee may release reports or charges or material from a committee file except what is authorized by a majority of the whole committee. the broadcasting and televising of witnesses whose reputation is at stake or those whom they call in defense be permitted only with the consent of the witness and that committee members or their staffs do  write or speak about investigations in progress for compensation. the prestige of the congress and of the congress power to investigate urgently require that the procedure for the congressional investigation of subversive activities be reorganized and that it be conducted on the highest level practicable. excesses in congressional investigations have been materially harmful to the operations of the state and defense departments and the information and education program of the united states. have tended to lessen the morale of government emplbyees dnd affected adversely higher education and* religion. it is  clear that investigations of subversion and communism are in essence prosecutions. for all practical purposes carrying such effective punishment in terms of public sanctions as to make them prosecutions. wherever the congressional power to carry them through is subject to misuse and excesses.and to protect itself against them the congress should adopt the joint committee proposal. two developments make it vital in the national interest that the reforms contemplated by my resolution be immediately effected. first. there is the current inquiry in the other body concerning charges against the chairman and staff of its permanent subcommittee on investigations of the committee on government operations and the countercharges against the secretary of the army and officials of the department and. second. the developments regarding scientific personnel stemming from the activities of the same subcommittee in respect to the highly secret installations of the signal corps at fort monmouth. n. j. in respect of the fort monmouth investigation. the recent statement of the federation of american scientists calls attention to the grave danger to our national security inherent in scientists. upon whom that security heavily depends. either  finding it attractive to work for the federal government or being so deeply shaken in their morale as to disrupt their work. disruption of the scientific effort required in the national security interest can be a major national disaster and it is time to take precautions against it. the congress has the right to investigate and to find and expose subversives in any field. including the scientific field. but it should  be done with such recklessness as to jeopardize the inent equally with the guilty and to attenuate security procedures so far that practically one is 100 percent clear. the experience of the congress with joint committees like those on atomic energy and the ecoic report has been good. a joint committee will have flexibility as it is empowered under my resolution to refer particular investigations to standing legislative committees or to recommend legislation for the appointment of statutory investigative commissions to handle particular investigations. under such a procedure the current investigation of the department of the army in the other body probably would have gone to the armed services committee which has legislative oversight over the army. there should be question  about the adoption of rules of fair procedure. including reasonable rights of crossexamination. the maintenance of the secrecy of executive hearings. and responsible limitations upon characterizations of witnesses and their testimony. as soon as a new issue arose involving the chairman of the permanent subcommittee on investigations of the other body. there was insistence upon rules in substance of this kind. certainly the congress should recognize by the force of such an example that the daytoday witness and the daytoday person accused of communism or communist associations should have the benefit of reasonable procedural safeguards. too. and that mandatory rules are needed to get them. here is an opportunity. by this discharge petition. for members to do something about the excesses in the congressional investigations of subversion so much discussed by press and public that they have become a major domestic issue in our country. by signing this discharge petition. action can be had in an effective way to deal with the excesses while preserving in even more effective form the congressional investigative activities in this field.
 is the commander in chief. and only the congress can declare war. carried out under the terms. intent. and spirit of our constitution. has been our safeguard during the whole history of our country. this amendment would destroy that very balance which has worked for all these generations. and the real end of this amendment would be that every time congress is called upon to declare war. to put out a brush fire. then sure as shooting the first time that occurs. atomic or hydrogen war will come. which is just exactly what we do  want.
second. and this is very importanti do  think there is very much difference at all between the country lawyer and the city lawyer. aside from the sectional difference. i think both the country lawyer and the city lawyer could get together. as regards their difficulties. for this reason: what the city lawyer is saying is that when in a community there is a collapse of law enforcement which involves constitutional matters. matters of national interest. matters with which the supreme court of the united states has dealt. the city lawyer believes the country wishes to have the lawenforcement agencies of the federal government take over - where local lawenforcement agencies have fallen down. stripped to its essentials. i believe that is what the proposal is. otherwise. the federal government would be deprived of the right to do what it must to keep order. and then the country would be back to the civil war and before. if the senator from florida will forgive me for saying so. in the last few days i have heard on this floor a great deal which sounds very much like that.
that is exactly right. it is exactly analogous to the authority which is given him to intervene in cases in which the constitutionality of statutes is brought into question. i close by reading a part of the decision in united states against raines. and i shall also refer to aher decision. both of which i believe go to the real heart of the matter. in united states against raines the supreme court fully sustained the authority of the united states to bring an action in support of private constitutional rights. indeed. i inserted in the record. on february 27. about 50 statutes in which the attorney general is given just such authority. the u.s. supreme court in the case of united states against raines. a votingright case. held: it is urged that it is beyond the power of congress to authorize the united states to bring this action in support of private constitutional rights. but there is the highest public interest in the due observance of all the constitutional guarantees. including those that bear the most directly on private rights. and we think it perfectly competent for congress to authorize the united states to be the guardian of that public interest in a suit for injunctive relief. that excerpt is taken from page 9 of the decision in united states v. raines ( 64). decided on february 29. 1960. i do  think anything could be clearer in terms of this grant of authority to the united states. i should like to close on this one e. it is my deeply considered judgment that to rate the title of a meaningful civil rights bill. the pending bill should at the very least do something about the desegregation of the public schools. other than that. . it seems to me that endemic to this whole problem is the situation in the world today. and that we must recognize the fact that tremendous forces are shaking the world today. therefore it is our duty to see to it that these forces are given some attention and are given some justice. if we expect them to conform to justice. furthermore. we must  in the united states fail to recognize the fact that hundreds of thousands of men died to assert it. in the civil war. in world war i. and in world war ii. and in other wars. are we just to disregard it. it seems to me that the supreme court makes it very clear that we are  to do that. i hope that a majority of my colleagues will feel with me that if we are to do something meaningful about civil rights. action is called for. and to do something meaningful about it. we must do something about public school desegregation. i believe the amendment gives us the minimum that we ought to do on that subject.
. and they were driven off their lands and despoiled of their property by the most brutal tyranny the world has ever kn. etheless. that has been the decision of the conferees. i shall support the conferees. because in other respects it does do justice to people who have waited for many years to have their claims adjusted. i shall introduce legislation to give these claimants at least a measure of justice. which the managers of the house state in the report they would be entitled to receive in the event there remains a balance in the war claims fund after the payment in full of claims provided for under the conference report. i  pledge my good faith. if i am returned to the senate next year. to continue my fight for these unfortunate people.
in just a moment this is the "atom bomb" in the united states. the senate is engaged in a historic debate today. while that debate continues for a week or 10 days. may we  forget that we have an atomic bomb in this country. and that justice shall  be denied. as depicted by the govers action in alabama
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. on behalf of myself. my distinguished colleague from new york . the senator from pennsylvania . and the senator from hawaii . a resolution to authorize a comprehensive study and investigation by the senate armed services committee of the capabilities of the naval and private shipyards in fulfilling the requirements of national defense. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the resolution be printed at this point in the record. and that the resolution lie on the desk until the close of business on may 25. so that senators who may wish to join in support of it may do so by that time.
. along with recent proncements by the defense department. indicate a scheduled "leveling off" of total defense expenditures. reduced defense spending on ship construction. repair. and conversion in particular areas will have a significant impact on the shipyards and their surrounding communities. in the case of shipyards employing many thousands of workers. reduced federal spending in a particular yard would have a substantial impact on the local employment situation. it is important that the ecoic impact of reduced defense spending upon shipyards and surrounding communities be considered in computing the savings obtained from reduced defense outlays. secretary of defense mcnamara has ackledged the defense departments responsibility to ease the impact upon installations and communities caused by reduced defense spending. the cost of assuming this responsibility should be taken into consideration when the defense department curtails expenditures at a particular installation. as is well kn. the defense department annced on december 15. 1963. that the secretary of the navy was establishing a panel to undertake a study of the nations shipyard capacity and requirements. the defense department study  being conducted is intended to include consideration of the present capacity of the public and private shipyards for construction. overhaul. and repair of all types of vessels. the study will include review of projected workloads. yard operating costs. and the impact of strategic and mobilization considerations on locations of shipyards and major bases. on december 20. 1963. upon the request of several senators. the chairman of the preparedness investigating subcommittee of the armed services committee instructed the subcommittee to conduct a preliminary study and inquiry into the problems associated with this nations naval shipyard operations. the subcommittees preliminary inquiry  being conducted is restricted to the naval shipyards and does  include consideration of operations of the private yards. the subcommittee has available to it the "report and analysis of differences between u.s. navy shipbuilding costs at naval and private shipyards." completed on ember 30. 1962. by arthur andersen & co.. a wellkn accounting firm. however. the scope and date of completion of its present study is of necessity influenced by the other heavy responsibilities of the subcommittee. the resolution introduced today would authorize the armed services committee to devote full attention to hearings and a thorough investigation of both naval and private shipyards. the monetary authorization in section 4 of the resolution is  specified in order that the committee may accurately compute the cost of added staff and other expenses which it would consider necessary to conduct a full study. this resolution would permit congressional scrutiny of a number of important questions concerning capabilities and costs of naval and private shipyard operations. this investigation would be in addition to any undertaken by the executive branch. it authorizes a review of the capabilities of public and private yards to perform new construction. overhaul. repair. conversion. and alteration work. past performance records of the shipyards. anticipated workloads for the period 196470. capacity of the yards to meet national defense requirements and the impact which mobilization would have upon existing and planned workloads would be examined. the investigation would also look into the comparative costs of performing work in naval and private shipyards and in individual shipyards of each category. although the employment and manpower subcommittee of the senate labor and public welfare committee recently published a compilation of studies on the "convertibility of space and defense resources to civilian needs"-including a study of the possibilities of longrange planning of a single navy yardthe question of the ecoic impact of curtailed federal defense spending in shipyards and their surrounding communities has  been the subject of congressional inquiry. section 10 of this resolution would require the armed services committee to look at the total cost to the federal government of any reduction in work allocation to a naval or private shipyard. this total cost to the federal government would include expenditures such as compensation payments to those unemployed as a result of such work reduction. payments for depressed area assistance if the reduced workload resulted in an unemployment situation which would qualify the area for area redevelopment. accelerated public works. or other depressed area federal financial assistance. the total cost of curtailing work at a navy yard should include. among other indirect costs. relocation costs for moving employees from one installation to aher and new equipment costs at facilities to which work might be reallocated from an installation whose operations were to be curtailed. in effect. both the direct costs assumed by the defense department and indirect costs assumed by this department and other federal agencies as a result of the reduced work allocation. ought to be taken into consideration in computing overall defense savings. section 11 of this resolution would permit the armed services committee to examine any action. decision. finding. or recommendation of any federal department or agency with respect to the curtailment of operations or closing of any shipyard. this section would authorize the armed services committee to consider the findings and conclusions of the shipyard study being conducted by the defense department and any action to be taken by the department as a result of this study. the curtailment of operations of our nations shipyards is an extremely important matter which would have a tremendous impact upon the employment of a large segment of the civilian population in many areas. it is a matter of grave significance affecting the national ecoy which should appropriately be considered by a committee of congress. thousands of civilians throughout this country should  find themselves in the position of awakening one morning to read in the newspapers about a final proncement on the future of their jobs without a thorough advance review by congress of proposed actions. the armed services committee would be required to report the results of its study and investigation with recommendations for legislation or other action it deems appropriate by january 31. 1965. should the department of defense study of the shipyards  be completed by this time. the reporting date could be extended. i am hopeful that the preliminary study on the naval shipyards which the armed services committee has seen fit to conduct can be expanded to include the areas of inquiry incorporated in this resolution. finally. i and my colleagues who are sponsoring the resolution are as interested in defense savings and the main.11300 tenance of necessary and efficient installations as is anyone else. but we want the government frankly to face the relevant factors that enter into a consideration of curtailing of work at private or public shipyards. we want the government to understand every aspect of the cost. social and otherwise. and the full ecoic impact upon the communities involved. and  to be content with the narrow view we are constantly given. namely. that it will "result in a saving to the defense department." we hope very much that the senate will think it is proper to adopt this resolution and at long last get to the heart of the problem
he would have a perfect right to sell them to the army or the navy. but the senator does  include in his example an american company. owned by thousands of american stockholders. and having a canadian subsidiary whose representative is in the united states. trying to explain something to congress or to the executive department. let us assume that the subsidiary is owned 100 percent by the american conipany. as the american company itself is 100 percent owned by americans. the senator from arkansas would have it rely on whether the department of justice thought or did  think it was representing a foreign principal.
. turkey will be having elections this fall. within the next few months. the government in office has gone back to the socalled justice party period of the menderes regime. everyone ks the great upset in turkey which occurred when menderes was executed. this election will result in turkey either looking toward a new era like that of the venizelosataturk accord. which lasted until the cyprus situation arose. for well over 30 years. or it will result in demagogs taking over and possibly bringing about what was  done in the truman days. a reorientation between turkey and the soviet union. there are a few other delicate and sensitive situations. like vietnam and the arabisrael situations. but i do  k of any more delicate or sentitive situation anywhere in the world than here. even if this proposal were never to become lawand i am confident that it will  become lawi do  k of anything that would be more of a thunderclap or shattering blow to everything that everyone has been trying to do in that area. than a development of this kind. greece and turkey are the two -underdeveloped countries in nato. nato has been remiss--and that includes ourselvesin  doing more to shore up this situation. turkey has been considered the toughest rampart on the south flank of the soviet union. in the past 6 months this rampart has become a little shaky. because of the feeling on the part of the turks that we have been too partial toward greece with respect to the cyprus situation. the entire situation is delicately balanced. this subject is one i k about in great detail. i am hopeful of the possibilities that i have described. with all the good will which the senator from oregon is displaying. i hope and pray that in this particular instance the senate will  rock the boat.
. . that we may -hagve an oppoiturifty to debate this issue. one 6f the principal authors of these iews. senatbr 1ft brmit. with whom -i .have talked is presently engagediin:varibus spe66hes tlsewhere.1 but i have great hope that.-sometime in the next fewweeks itmayabe possible todebate the problem of "arrogance of power" rywrsus acceptance of power otithe floor ofthe senate.. o. 1 ampeutting forward my thesi.just -a sehiiator fbiiit haiputforth his thbsig. in the hope: that. thismay engender a full scale foreign policy debaie"awith -the purposes -of informing the american people and strengthening our policy abroad. hence. with full personal respect for the critics. i am presenting some views of my own... the na tion properly listens to senator fulbright  only because he is the chairman of the foreign relations committee. but because he is a public figure with a fine reputation for intellectual distinction. but the impact 6f the phrase .".arrogance of power" is  limited to specific aspect of u.s.. policy. it gives the im.pression of. an overall attack. and. therefore. challenges thevery foundations and motives of that policy. without offering viable alternatives. as a consequence. the valuable points in itdesigned to give us .a sense of humility and spirit of inquiryhave riot received the sympathetic attention they deserve at policymaking levels. i. too. believe in restraint. but i believe we have exercised restraint. i. too. urge a spirit of inquiry. and i have called for full congressional debates on our policy toward communist china and vietnam. i. too. have criticized when our foreign policy has been unwise. as in our intervention in the dominican republic before oas consultation. or when we have  done egh as in ecoic and social reform for vietnam. i have repeatedly urged our acceptance of the national liberation front as an independent negotiating party at vietnam peace talks. and have also proposed unconditional negotiations with communist china in such a context. i have. moreover. said that we should accept the results of free elections in south vietnam. but. i believe that our bipartisan foreign policy since world war ii. has been basically sound. i also believe that our motives have been an "acceptance of power"  an "arrogance of power." the "arrogance of power" thesis. in attacking the very heart of that policy. falls shortin two vital respects: first. it is largely negative and offers guidelines for action. and. second. in concentrating only on crisis situation. it tendstb ige the rest of the landscape of international relations. policy must have a.positive basis. and it should rest on a full pi6ture of events.
 that is the te the senator reads into my remarks. that is  what i said. the te of my remarks was that after the justice department and the fbi checked into the inee. the administration continues to be for her judgeship. i implied hing else. there are many unscreened and unevaluated things about all of us. perhaps. in the files of the fbi. naval intelligence. army intelligence. and everywhere else. i am very well aware of that. as the senator from mississippi ls. that fact has caused a lot of people a lot of trouble. including me. so i speak from experience. but that does  mean one is guilty of anything.  in this country. all i am invoking the proceedings of the department of justice and the fbi about is that mrs. motleys name is here. it continues to be here. the administration sent it here. and it has  backed away from it at all. to its eternal credit. neither do i. and neither did the overwhelming majority of the members of the committee on the judiciary. mrs. motley is an outstandingly fine lawyer. and as fine a woman. so far as i have been able to ascertain from all of these sessions. as reasonable men of high probity and character could wish. i think that her record. and the rather unusual amount of public exposure she has had. as i have just recounted. should give us all the reassurance which we require to stand against the uncorroborated testimony of one person. in. i repeat. a cxii1338--part 16 proceeding before aher committee. which the same witness did  think it worth while to bring to us. who were the subcommittee sitting on this ination. to which there was opposition a letter.  an appearance. hing. i certainly do  think we ought to destroy a career by turning down this confirmation upon. in my opinion. such a very unsubstantial basis. i agree with the senator from mississipi that. since he felt as he did about it. he had a duty to lay the facts before the senate. and i am glad that hq has. but i feel that the overwhelming weight of the evidence and mrs. motleys record over all of this time are in favor of this ination. and i hope the senate will confirm it.
. i have aher question to ask the senator. but i first associate myself with the senator from vermont in this matter in view of the fact that i did speak last friday with respect to the fact that the 1 days difference made a months difference to those who are affected. i am entirely sympathetic with the views expressed by the senator from louisiana. however. i feel that this was a case of justice deferred. we were doing the best we could to bring the measure to passage at the earliest possible moment. however. that is water over the dam. i am sure that the conference report will be agreed to today. it is a fact. is it . that the conference report includes an extension of the opportunities for small home and business loans to veterans of world war ii from its expiration date. which has already occurred. to july 25. 1970.
. as a result of the request of one of my constituents. whom i wish to commend for his dedication and suggestion. i share with my colleagues the result of his suggestion which will benefit all civilian corps of engineers harbor inspectors. mr. edward canfora. an inspector with the u.s. army corps of engineers. harbor supervision and compliance section. new york city. made the suggestion to me that corps harbor inspectors be afforded the same status as certain other federal employees who are protected against acts of intimidation and violence under the provisions of sections 111 and 1114 of title 18 of the united states code. while performing their duties. the major duties of corps of engineers harbor inspectors are to inspect activities and circumstances in navigable waters or which may affect navigable waters. and to insure compliance with the provisions of federal laws governing navigable waters. he inspects the disposal of refuse and the status of wrecks and abandoned vessels as well as the construction of piers. bulkheads. pilings. breakwaters. and other structures. he is further charged with the duty of identifying violations of federal navigation laws. report such violations and direct the persons violating such laws to desist in their unlawful activities. these inspectors are threatened and even assaulted as they perform their duties. as a result of mr. canforas request. i contacted the office of the chief of engineers. and. with their permission. i ask unanimous consent that the complete text of the response be printed in the record.
ial authority to continue united states air combat operations in cambodia." this memorandum was submitted in response to a request from chairman fulbright some weeks earlier for a statement of the administration position. in my judgment. the state department memorandum fails to make its case. when secretary rogers again appeared before the foreign relations committee. at the request of myself and other members. on may 10. 1973. i submitted a memorandum which is a reply to the state department memorandum in some detail. my memorandum is entitled "a rebuttal to the state department legal memorandum on authority for the continued bombing of cambodia." in view of the importance of the issues involved and the many requests received for copies of my memorandum. i ask unanimous consent that the following documents be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks: first. the state department memorandum. second. my memorandum in rebuttal: and third. the full text of the opinion. cited in the state department memorandum. by judge wyzanski for the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia in mitchell against laird.
. the increasing number of bombing incidents throughout the country and the attendant danger to both inent citizens and public safety officers requires that the most careful consideration be given to any legislation which relaxes federal restrictions governing availability of these materials. i urge the senate to support local law enforcement and allow them to be heard on this issue. be that as it may if the senator from massachusetts is. and to make the motion.
