. the departments letter makes the following important points. first. that there "is clear evidence of the resort by thesoviet--regime to discriminatory measures against jews in access to higher education." second. that "the desecration of cemeteries. closing of synagogues. dispersing of prayer meetings. arrests of lay leaders. prohibition of certain jewish religious practices. et cetera. have been well established." finally. the state department concludes that the soviet governments dissemination of this open letter in reply to my charges "is a sign of increased sensitivity to charges of antisemitism and is doubt calculated to counter recent foreign publicity of deliberate antisemitic actions by the soviet regime." this point should be underscored. and should encourage the american people to continue to call attention to antijewish persecution in the soviet union. private appeals to the soviet government on humane grounds would minimize the possibility of confusing the soviet jewish problem with cold war issues. so i emphasize that the letter of comment by the state department is addressed to me. and is in sense a department declaration. in the letter the department gives me its candid appraisal of the points made in the open letter. i believe the open letter from five soviet jews to be an official soviet reaction. and. rather than answering my original charges of antijewish persecution. it really confirms and substantiates them. the soviet press agency osti was set up in early 1961 as an uficial press service with headquarters in moscow. it is allegedly backed by the soviet unions of journalistists and writers. the society of friendship and relations with foreign countries. and the soviet for dissemination of scientific and political kledge. removed from the soviet jargon. these mass or popular organizations are hing more than camouflaged voices of soviet official policy. it is important to e the point. which is borne out. namely. that jewish culture in the soviet union suffered a total suppression beginning in 1948. and culminating in 1952. with the execution of almost all of the leading yiddishlanguage writers. ostensibly for having conspired to turn the crimea into a secessionist jewish state. although many of the crimes of the stalin era have been denced in recent years. and even though some of the writings of jews killed during that antisemitic purge have been republished. e of them has been publicly rehabilitated. although their inence has implicitly been admitted. among those who were shot at the time was the poet itzik feffer. some of whose works have reappeared in recent years. in one such volume the introduction to feffers poems makes reference to the fact that he was shot for a crime he did  commit. and even ironically speaks of "his biographya natural one for a soviet writer."
