. and for that matter. of the entire membership. lewis deschler has cleared the wellkn tight congressional procedural path time and time again in a way characterized as impartial. decisive. and quiet. his response to inquiries as to procedural stratagems and as to rights and privileges of members has been particularly invaluable to my march -4 congressional brethren as well as myself. indeed. this great body has been and continues to be the better for its selection some 35 years ago of the outstanding ability and parliamentary wisdom of lewis deschler. i congratulate lew on his recent birthday anniversary. and. moreover. on the occasion of his 36th year of service as house parliamentarian. his has been a long and productive service. may the house of representatives continue to enjoy his wise and partisan counsel for many years to come. may heaven bless lew deschler. and may he continue to privilege this great chamber .with his presence.
 johnson. which pointed out most clearly that the hope for lifting the suppression of the jews cultural and religious life has  been fulfilled. permission allowing even a "trickle of emigration" of soviet jews to join their relatives abroad was completely shut off last summer after only a brief period. a widespread vilification campaign against israel and zionism has made life uncomfortable. at the very least. for these people. the rights granted to other nationality and religious groups have continually been denied to the jews. the instances of injustice and suppression need  be listed. they are clear egh in a world in which the struggle to recognize the equality of all men and the right to live and worship freely grows stronger with each passing day. as i said earlier this year. and am repeating . and. if necessary. will do so over and over again. the suppression which the jewish people suffer in the soviet union stands out starkly as a flagrant violation of human rights.  only against the jewish people. but against all mankind. all men concerned with these rights must continue to give the fullest support to the determined efforts of the american jewish community and every individual working to expose the patterns of discrimination against soviet jewry until soviet policy is reversed.
 nixon said in his address to the th atlantic council in 1969: we must build an alliance strong egh to deter those who might threaten war. close egh to provide for continuous and farreaching consultation. trusting egh to accept a diversity of views. realistic egh to deal with the world as it is. flexible egh to explore new channels of constructive cooperation. the united states is clearly in a position to initiate such an effort. and i am delighted by the broad and bipartisan support the resolution has received in the house.
. i will reluctantly vote against the amendments to expand the operation of the american revolution bicentennial commission. it was senator charles mcc. mathias. then a member of this body. and i who drafted the legislation which led to the creation of the commission. and i remain convinced of the importanceindeed the extraordinary opportunity for national renewalthat an appropriate observance of the bicentennial presents. my "nay" vote will reveal diminution in my commitment to the concept. rather. it is intended to make clear my dissatisfaction with the meager progress that the commission has made to date. its failure to marshal the intellectual resources which can contribute to its works. and its apparent lack of sensitivity to the fundamental significance of the event which gave rise to its creation. although this is the sixth year of its existence. overall national plans to commemorate the american revolution have been forthcoming. and the commission appears to be unwilling to respond constructively or creatively to the suggestions of the private and public agencies which have presented many thoughtful and provocative proposals. indeed numerous imaginative and highly original plans for the bicentennial which have been submitted to the commission have. unfortunately. languished for months. to date the only bicentennial projects which have received the "official sanction" of the commission are the denver 1976 winter olympics. the iowa bicentennial commissions 1976 world food expo. urban renewal plans for niagara falls. n.y.. the mount rushmore national shrine in south dakota. and the city of detroits plans for an urban transportation center. while these proj. ects are all worthwhile and commend. able. i fear that the 200th anniversary of the american revolution will come and go with more engagement of the creative energies of the american people than the usual bonfires and fireworks displays. if the commission continues to operate at its present pace. aher disturbing aspect of the commission has been its practice of holding business meetings in secrecy. all four of the 1971 meetings of the full commission were held in private. as if the conimission were dealing with classified documents rather than a democratic celebration that belongs to all of the people. i deplore this lack of involvement of all citizens and the apparent mistrust of public judgment. i feel that the bicentennial offers all americans an especial opportunity to come together as a nation in renewing our commitment to the ideals of the american revolution which are as relevant today as they were 200 years ago. there is the prospect of a celebration that will encourage the american people of every region. every race. every religion. and every ethnic group to develop a greater sense of common purpose and to deal with the problems facing our society today. just. as a common purpose moved this country to great achievement 200 years ago. i am sure that this bill will be adopted by the house today. and i pray that it will better enable the american revolution bicentennial commission to live up to the goals of the revolution and will provide it with a longneeded impetus.
. it is very unfortunate that the civilrights question has been injected into the debate. i am very glad indeed that the distinguished senator from michigan expressed himself as regretful it had become an issue in the debate. i wish this question of procedure and rules amendment could be viewed and considered and decided completely apart from any other question that might possibly come before the senate. as i see it. the question itself is of transcendent importance to the people of the united states everywhere. we have heard a great deal in the course of the debate in regard to the rights of miities.
in answer to that. it would appear that because of the injection of -the question. of civil rights into the debate we are  faced with a filibuster. -but i nevertheless regret exceedingly that this paramount question of procedure and rules amendment can be considered exclusively on its own merits. i shall state the reason. we hear all around us a great deal about the rights of miities. we have heard a great deal about the rights of miities during the debate. i can assure you. . other course has yet been offered which. in itself. provides any answer. we all k that if the senators who are opposed to the resolution in its present form persist in their opposition. they can defeat it. we all k. from experience in this body. that if we stay here night and day. assuming this ruling is overriddenand heaven ks. sir. i would be willing to stay. and i have urged the majority leader to take such action in such eventuality. and i k that most of the members on this side of the aisle would be willing to do soall of us k. i repeat. that if we physically can stay here night and day. week after week and month after month. so can the opposition. the opposition has sufficient strength. because of their number. to last as long as we can last. we must show up for quorum calls. we are responsible for this body remaining in continuous session and  being faced with a condition which would bring about adjournment. that is the responsibility of those of us who are trying to bring about this needed correction in the senates rules.
does  the senator from colorad6 feel that some kind of conference with these supervisory authorities in the state should be held. these authorities presumably k better than anyone else in the country what kind of provision should be made in this type of legislation. i -do  mean by that that we should delegate our rights to the states or to anyone representing the states. but we need their advice in the instance.
. i thank the gentleman from minnesota. i was very happy to join in introducing a bill yesterday to enforce constitutional rights and for other purposes. there are four points that i and my colleagues. i think. would like to make. amongst others. one. in introducing this legislation we are doing so in a partisan spirit. because civil rights are too important for narrow politics. second. we need legislation. the congress should act. i believe that the experience of the new york state commission for human rights and other state commissions clearly indicates that there is substitute for law.
 on a bipartisan basis. jurisdiction of the states having effective antidiscrimination laws is preserved. the commission would have the power to utilize regional. state. and local agencies to accomplish its purposes. . a few weeks ago. on june 4. i joined in introducing the equal rights act of 1963 to enable individuals and the federal government to initiate civil cases to enforce 14th amendment guarantees in the use of public facilities. and to enable the attorney general to invoke bill of rights protections for individuals by initiating civil injunctive action on their behalf. it is my hope that the congress will enact this additional legislation introduced today as the right--on meritto seek gainful employment that is basic to our concept of democracy. the denial of this right to join a union or to participate in joint labormanagement training programs hurts the individual. the family. and the community.
. i am happy today to salute my good friend and distinguished colleague from new york. frank horton. he is an outstanding congressman who has been in the vanguard of the bipartisan effort to secure equal opportunity for all americans. congressman horton was one of those in june 1963. who joined in introducing the equal rights act of 1963. basing bill of rights profections firmly on the 14th amendment. this approach was subsequently adopted by the judiciary committee in the historic civil rights bill which passed the house on february 10. congressman horton well and effectively represents his district and nation. it is a privilege to serve with him in this house.
. i compliment the gentleman from new york on his remarks and join with him in strong support of the resolution and the civil rights bill wherein the congress will be keeping covenant with the american dream. making possible a new birth of freedom and guaranteeing that rights inherent to all are a reality for all.
 to assure every citizen his or her inherent right to vote . as a member of a bipartisan group of members of the house who made a private visit at our own expense to selma in february. and who met with dr. martin luther king. the legal and moral imperatives of additional legislation were all too plain. the remarkable and hopeful thing was that men and women throughout the united states. as well as many in alabama and in the rural black belt counties. recognized the need for action. it is a matter of some hope for our democracy that young men and women of our generation recognized that where any american is unconstitutionally denied the right to vote. the rights of all americans are belittled. along with members on both sides of the aisle. i have introduced voting rights bills covering federal. state and local elections and striking down unconstitutional literacy tests and state poll taxes. it is my hope that the judiciary committee will soon report . voting rights bill and that it will enjoy the broadest bipartisan support. only in this way. can we in the house keep faith with those who believe freedom  must be made a present reality. for all americans . this is the message of selma. and of the march on montgomery. and hing must be allowed to distort the need for this legislation. or to cast doubt on the remarkable spirit that is making the american dream come true. . dr. gills statement follows:
. i rise in strong support of the amendment of the gentleman from new york to uphold first amendment rights in connection with voting. those of us who have lately been in selma. and all members of this house. k clearly and unmistakably and sorrowfully that there have been threats. intimidation. brutality. and. indeed. murder. in connection with voting rights. as the gentleman from maryland has so eloquently said. there is a clear need for the federal government to be able to take appropriate action to guarantee constitutional rights and to uphold first amendment rights. if i am  mistaken i attended a meeting with the gentleman in the justice department. following a very tragic day in selma on sunday. march 7. this was monday. the following day. it was very clear the attorney general could have used additional powers provided by the basic amendment. i hope it is strongly supported by both sides of the aisle.
. i am happy to report. as one of the authors of the voting rights act. that progress was made yesterday in mississippi. i believe. and many americans voted for the first time in the exercise of their full rights of citizenship. this. however. is just a beginning and these rights will  be fully realized till all who should be. are registered. till all can vote without fear of reprisal.
i thank the gentleman for his thoughtful statement. i add merely that the freedom of the press must be reinsured by each generation. i believe the greater access that this bill will provide sustains that great principle.
. i am offering an amendment which i think is simple but significant. it would extend explicit protection under section 501(a) to individuals serving as poll watchers in any primary. special. or general election. the amendment would make it a federal crime to injure or intimidate. by force or threat of force. individuals qualifying or acting as poll watchers. the poll watcher is a cornerstone of the electoral process. the full and fair performance of his function is an inseparable component of the basic. inalienable right of every american to vote. when poll watchers are able to perform their duties freely and effectively. their presence lends credence to the fairness of the election and restores confidence in the entire process in that segment of the community which has frequently been denied the opportunity to vote. this legislation should be explicit in support of comprehensive protection for those willing to serve their community and their nation to preserve the integrity of election procedures. we must make clear today our collective conviction that if we are to lift the climate of fear where it exists. poll watchers must be free from violence and the threat of violence designed to discourage them from implementing their rights and the rights of others.
secondly. i would like to ask the gentleman. if i may. whether the compact and authority connected therewith in relation to the states. does  very clearly preserve to the states inherent rights. rights they presently have to protect the rights of the hudson river communities consistent with conservation and with the concepts of local autoy and give full voice to the local communities with regard to their future.
. in my judgment. this bill is vital to our encouragement of the creative arts in america. in safeguarding the rights of our authors. composers. and other artists. we are protecting  only their rights but our national heritage as well.
. i am introducing today two bills comprising the higher education bill of rights which implement many of the recommendations of the carnegie commission on the future of higher education. chaired by dr. clark kerr. these bills are being cosponsored by my able colleague. the gentleman from indiana
 is  to be circumscribed by the exigencies of moving in todays mobile society. i introduced a bill in 1969 to accomplish this. and i am glad to see it included in the voting rights act. third. and most important. the senate bill provides for extending the right to vote to 18yearolds. the challenge of youth is perhaps the greatest domestic challenge facing the united states in the 1970s. the concern of our young men and women over the political and social future of our country has been well demonstrated. they have campaigned for candidates of their choice. they have been far ahead of their government in indicating the need for change. in these endeavors. they have shown an extraordinary degree of commitment to principle. a great faith in democratic institutions. and a desire to work within the system. it is an undeniable fact that in 1970 our youth are better educated and better equipped to cope with the responsibilities of citzenship in a democratic society than ever before. it is undeniable that in 1970 our youth have a greater degree of sensitivity toward political issues than ever before. and a potent desire to channel their energies toward much needed change. and it is also undeniable that we have perpetuated a grievous situation in which some 11 million of our citizens have borne the responsibilities of citizenship while failing to be endowed with their right to participate in shaping their responsibilities. these 11 million citizens bear the responsibilities of military service. of adult punishment under the criminal law. and many face the responsibilities of employment and providing for families. i submit that this situation should longer be allowed to exist. i submit that the principle of concurrent rights and responsibilities forbids it. it is my firm belief that the function of the congress is clearly to legislate. it clearly is  to secondguess upon the constitutionality or validity of its legislation. historically and uncontestably. this is the function of our courts. the constitutionality of lowering the voting age to 18 by legislative flat has been eloquently argued on both sides. i. for one. am convinced of this procedures validity. and i am hopeful that the courts will have the opportunity to rule on the matter without delay. my view in this regard is sustained by profs. paul freund and archibald cox of harvard law school. the voting rights provisions and the extension of the franchise to 18yearolds are critically important to this nation at this time. to fail to enact them would be a dereliction of responsibility. a most callous indication of lack of faith and broken commitments. and an invitation to further discord and division in america.
the purpose of this amendment would be to give communities receiving assistance underthe act the opportunity to file a complaint and have that complaint investigated on the finding of probable bause. thb fact of the matter is without the amendment there is opportunity for affected communities or aggrieved parents to seek redress. it is a very fair and straightforward procedure and consistent with other cimil rights statutes. in my judgment. to pass a $1 billion bill without it having some opportunity for aggrieved districts to seek a fair redress if funds are being used for discriminatory purposes would be a mistake.
. i urge the house to pass this amendment. and to grant 18-. 19-. and 20yearolds the rights that have been too long denied them. the 18yearold vote can start to make our system of government truly responsive and it will help dissolve the distrust many hold.
 has chosen to make a comparison which in my view is reprehensible and a sorry reflection on the comprehension of his own country and what it stands for. i have had the privilege of working closely with reverend abernathy. roy wilkins. george wiley. whitney young. and the late dr. martin luther king as well as jesse jackson and others in their continued efforts to secure ecoic. social. and political rights for all americans: for black americans and the rest of our citizens for which the fight has  been an easy one and is  yet won. unlike the leaders of black african nations. reverend abernathy. jesse jackson. mr. wilkins. and mr. wiley are  in positions of national authority. yet they do have a national mandate in many respects. they are on the outside all too frequently and sometimes the society and the establishment goes out of its way to keep them there. what they must do and how they must do it is entirely different from the rulers of ethiopia. the congo. and kenya. much of the political and ecoic progress made by america is due to the leadership of black americans dating back to the revolutionary war. these men. as americans. have spoken out for all men. have had a sense of feeling for humanity  only in our country but for the fate of mankind. i deeply hope that these americans will continue to speak out ever more vigorously for freedom and firstclass citizenship. and for the rights of those that are denied in southern africa. and against the terrible doctrines of the perversion of democracy and the inhumanity of slave labor conditions that pertain in the mines of south africa. the denial of the basic freedoms and a decent education. i think that sometimes as i recall selma. ala.. back in the days of martin luther king. one can help but be convinced of his very deep conviction that he was concerned with the soul of america and the future of all america. and if we did  k our soul and could  find our own way there would  be much left for america and  much perhaps for the rest of the world. so. i hope this kind of attack will  in any sense deter you in your efforts to secure that which is vital to all america. the opportunity of a free america concerned with all mankind.
. but by the congress. through concurrent resolution. unless we can get these basic powers and effectively use our power to compel testimony and information of witnesses relative to our congressional and constitutional purposes. this body could become increasingly somewhat irrelevant. conversely. it is my conviction that unless the congress stands up and exercises power thoughtfully and wisely. we will be treated with increasing condescension by the executive. if we want thoughtful cooperation. we have got to deal from a position of strength in the public interest. ultimately what is at stake is  just the checks and balances in our system of government.  is it simply what is going to happen to the american people and the children and the poor throughout our landthe people whose hopes have been dashed. it is a question of survival of freedom itself. i have seen in many countries of the world the cause of freedom of the press threatened. today we are seeing this under the most serious attack in our history. we must fight for the viability and strength and integrity of our free institutions. to me this means. among other things. a free and viable press. including radio and tv. it means unfettered courts. free to interpret justice as they see it and. finally. a proper balance between a strong executive. a judiciary. and congress. if these institutions can be maintained in the strength of viability and hope and integrity. then i have great hope for the united states. and. above all. for a government that must recognize that it is accountable to the american people. this is something that i think some in the executive office fight today. we are here as servants. and the role of government is to govern.  to divide and conquer. i think the gentleman in taking the well. and also the entire black caucus. today is helping to illustrate. to underline and underscore. the importance of these issues which go to the heart of freedom in this country and. indeed. throughout the world. and to our commitment as free men to serve as servants of the people. it is our duty to see that people are involved in the decisions affecting their lives. and that the commitments of their government done in their name are hoed and i commend the congressional black caucus  only for taking time tonight. but also for its valuable contributions to the rights and liberties of all americans.
. i am glad to support this legislation. it is long overdue but represents a strong first step toward reform. and i hope that my colleagues will lend it their support so that we may grant american workers the rights they have so long deserved.
. the members would be representative of all sectors of american life. and some should be kledgeable in international law. in joining in international human rights year. this nation will be reaffirming a commitment to inherent universal human or individual rights which was made in our earliest days. and which remains the framework in which our laws are drawn and enforced. although we have on occasion. in some areas of our national life. neglected this concept. and have. for instance. delayed acting on several pending international human rights conventions. it is nevertheless the idea which prevails in all our proncements of the hope which we hold for the worlds development. involvement in international human rights year will afford us the opportunity to reassert our belief in the fundamental worth of the individual and his importance before the law. it will also enable us to help disseminate this idea to other parts of the world. particularly to the less developed nations. who sometimes tend to put this concept aside in favor of more immediate achievement and progress in the material sense. i can suggest strongly egh that we act at this session to establish the u.s. committee on human rights. and i am happy to join my colleague. the gentleman from new york. congressman seymour halpern. in supporting this measure. i include a copy of the bill: be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled.
 today i have introduced a joint resolution proposing an amendment to the constitution to guarantee equal rights under the law for men and women. it declares that "equality of rights under the law shall  be denied or abridged by the united states or by any state on account of sex." the history of the struggle of women .to achieve equality of rights is a long one. fraught with disappointments and frustrations. but also with some degree of success. today american women have advanced to a higher status than in any other country. the 19th amendment passed 45 years ago gave women the right to votebut little else. firstclass citizenship means more than voting rights as. we are learning from the struggle for civil rights being waged currently. firstclass citizenship also requires the lifting of barriers in other areas. such as employment land educatiohal opportunities. while women have made great strides in both these areas. it took legislation .enacted just 2 years ago to give themat least on paperthe same rights as men in seeking employment. title vii of the 1964 civil rights act. to which i refer. prohibits discrimination in employment on the basis of sex as well as race. but does  cover all potential situations. despite the efforts of the equal employment opportunity commission to establish guidelines for enforcement of this provision. this mandate can be and is circumvented. the commission. i understand. is presently reviewing these guidelines. there are other aspects of civil rights -which are  covered. even in a limited way. by these two pieces of legislation and which are -still denied women in varying degrees in states and localities of our country. :" discrimination for women remains in such matters as property rights. the right to own and control ones earnings. and. in some states. the right to serve on a jury. these are rights accorded unquestioningly to men. past experience indicates that the only way women will achieve equaf rights with men is through the passage of this constitutional amendment and the sub..sequent ratification of it by the states. i prefer. however. to look upon this amendment as one for equal rights for men. because in addition to granting women their full legal rights on an equal basis with men. it also grants men equal rights in circumstances where they are discriminated against and experience the results of imniities traditionally enjoyed by women. "or. looked upon in aher way. it will mean the end to what i consider to be in this context. reverse
s environmental pollution panel suggests. substantial regulations must be enacted on a local level to abate excessive se on "the inside" as well as the outside. small but significant steps in this direction have been taken. the polytechnic institute of brooklyn has been working on proposals which would include in the new new york city building code provisions for the combat of se in multiple dwellings. their analysis of their purpose is set forth in their letter to me of july 20. 1964. hereinafter set forth at the close of this statement. in addition to reducing the amount of airborne se to comfortable levels. the proposed polytechnic code seeks to abate the "impact ses" which come from various pieces of mechanical equipment and ventilation ducts. in this regard the national bureau of standards has published a moraph 771964entitled "sound insulation of wall. floor and door constructions." this publication contains acoustical test results on over 100 building constructions and is. i believe. of immense value in april 21..1966 helping builders to erect buildings with good sound insulation. guidelines such as this. it is hoped. will revise the present trend toward the use of thinner construction for lower cost or even safer construction. but without regard to "sound" problems. with the realization that so many more people are moring to the cities. together with recognition of the rapid population expansion if  explosion. we must insure privacy and peace through quiet apartments which are the homes of our people. while my bill does   suggest national regulatory codes. it would provide federal funds to assist the state and local governments to begin their own programs of se control. in addition. the bill would provide funds for financing a comprehensive and energetic educational campaign to arouse public consciousness to the evils of se and the advantages of a more quiet environment. before we can properly educate the public on the evils of se. however. we must k more than we presently do about it. we must engage in an openminded. immediate. and comprehensive research program into the causes and effects of se on men. women. and children from a psychological. physiological. sociological. and biological point of view. actually a good deal of kledge concerning the effects of se has been gained through the diligent efforts and detailed work of several groups which have organized to voice their concern.
. in this crucial era of international relations it is particularly important that we observe this week. which is designated as captive nations week. we celebrate this week throughout the united states to show our support of the right of all people to selfdetermination as to their form of government and freely to pursue their ecoic. social. and cultural development. today. these are rights denied to millions of subjugated and enslaved people throughout the world. it is fitting that we in this country who enjoy complete freedom. and who are often guilty of taking that freedom for granted. should set aside this 1 week of the year to devote special attention to the deprived people who desire liberty and independence. but who are  struggling under the tyrannical communist yoke. during captive nations week. we reaffirm our determination to work toward the establishment of democratic processes and eventual freedom in these subjugated areas. i could  more fully endorse the underlying principles of captive nations week. and i trust that through our observance of it we can show the peoples in these oppressed nations our concern for them. and give them confidence that the free world is constantly striving to achieve their liberation.
. the purpose of this joint resolution. which in order to be operative would have to be ratified as an amendment to the constitution by the legislatures of threefourths of the states. is to establish equality of rights for men and women under the constitution and the federal and state statutes. moreover. it would guarantee the equality of rights which have already been won. the history of the struggle of women to achieve equality of rights is a long one. fraught with disappointments and frustrations. but also with some degree of success. today. american women have advanced to a higher status than in any other country. the 19th amendment passed 45 years ago gave women the right to votebut little else. firstclass citizenship means more than voting rights. as we are learning from the struggle for civil rights being waged currently. firstclass citizenship also requires the lifting of barriers in other areas. such as employment and educational opportunities. while women have made great strides in both these areas. it took legislation enacted just 3 years ago to give themat least on paperthe same rights as men in seeking employment. title vii of the 1964 civil rights act. to which i refer. prohibits discrimination in employment on the basis of sex as well as race. but does  cover all potential situations. despite the efforts of the equal employment opportunity commission to establish guidelines for enforcement of this provision. this mandate can be and is circumvented. the commission. i understand. is presently reviewing these guidelines. there are other aspects of civil rights which are  covered. even in a limited way. by these two pieces of legislation and which are still denied women in varying degrees in states and localities of our country. discrimination for women remains in such matters as property rights. the right to own and control ones earnings. and. in some states. the right to serve on a jury. these are rights accorded unquestioningly to men. past experience indicates that the only way women will achieve equal rights with men is through the passage of this constitutional amendment and the subsequent ratification of it by the states. aher approach to this problem could be. however. to look upon this amendment as one for "equal rights for men." because. in addition to granting women their full legal rights on an equal basis with men. it also grants men equal rights in circumstances where they are discriminated against and experience the results of immunities traditionally enjoyed by women. or. looked upon in aher way. it will mean the end to what i would consider to be in this context "reverse discrimination." which exists in some aspects of life where women are favored over men. for example. passage of this amendment would allow women to serve on juries where they are  prohibited from doing so. at the same time. this means that women may longer be excused from jury duty. as they are in some states. by virtue of their sex. states and localities would benefit from this just by being able to increase the number of citizens who could be called upon to perform this public duty. there is aher important and controversial aspect to the question of corresponding rights and dutiesnamely. that of conscription into the military servicefrom which women in this country are exempted. it has been suggested in the past that this amendment would extend to equal treatment for men and women in compulsory service. it may be agreed that women could serve in various clerical or administrative capacities as well as men. this amendment does  overlook the natural or physical distinction between men and women. it has been said that "equal rights" does  necessarily mean sameness or identical rights between men and women. aher form of "reverse discrimination" exists in the employment field. discrimination against men is standard policy in many professions but goes virtually uniced. in the medical profession. women have received increasing acceptance as doctors. and men as nurses. it has been only in the past few years. however. that some schools have admitted men into their nurses training program. the male nurse training and employment situation is further discussed at the end of this statement in an article by howard 0. earl entitled "your next nurse may be a man." the public conception of nursing as "a womans profession" seems to be the prime factor in keeping men out of this field of employment. from the examples i have cited. i think we can see how calling this amendment "equal rights for women" tells only half the story of its effect upon american life. a clear proncement of equality of rights for both sexes is long overdue in this country. withstanding the support it has received from both major political parties. i hope the 90th congress will remedy this situation by passage of this joint resolution. the previous resolution. house joint resolution 1073. appears with statement in the april 19. 1966. congressional record at page 8452. it was recently mentioned in articles appearing in readers digest. july 1966. and look magazine. there follows a copy of house joint resolution 63 that i introduced together with the article by howard g. earl. "your next nurse may be a man." mentioned above and which appeared in the february 1966 issue of todays. health:
. july 1420 marks the 10th observance of captive nations week. in light of our countrys recent celebration of its 192d year of freedom. it is only fitting and proper that we recognize the plight of those nations in eastern europe. the soviet union. asia. and cuba who today remain subject to communist domination. here in america we believe in freedom and selfdetermination. it is because of these beliefs that we join in celebration of captive nations week. with the hope that at some date in the near future these captive peoples. in free and open elections under democratic procedures. will be able to join with other democratic nations of the world in celebration of true independence. as a free people. we too often take for granted those rights and privileges guaranteed by a democratic system of government. on this occasion of the 10th anniversary of captive nations week. let us reflect on the meaning of freedom as well as the responsibilities which accompany it. we sincerely hope that all captive peoples will soon regain their freedom and live in peace in their homelands.
 gence and high integrity. almost all who carter said less than a week ago in his have kn him longest and best say he inaugural address. that there be "a seri- is a man with sensitivity toward civil ous. purposeful rekindling of confidence." rights and individual rights. in this ination we do  have that judge bell has for years been active rekindling of confidence for our nation. nationally in efforts to streamline the for those reasons. i am opposed to the judicial system. as attorney general. he ination of judge bell. will be able to devote his time. intelli-
. i would like to thank the majority leader a great deal for his thoughtful and helpful remarks. i would like to convey to him. if i can. how very deeply we do feel about this. however. i find myself rather astonished standing here on the senate floor and participating in what used to be considered an anathema. a filibuster. or minifflibuster. if you will. but as you get into these things. you begin to realize that some rights are extremely important. it seems to me that the right to have ones say is a precious one. and i would hate to see it engulfed in some type of legislation designed to remedy dilatory tactics. delay. or whatever it may be. in such a way that in dealing with the problem we eliminate a right. that bothers me.
. there is aher point i would like to touch on. that is. as i understood the remarks of the distinguished senator from th carolina. who was speaking beforeand i regret he is  on the floor he made the point that we have to be careful about these cubans. who are getting this fine military training and exercising their tactics all over africa in a disgraceful mannerwhich i could  agree with more. whether it is angola or the horn of africaand that these battletrained soldiers are going to come back and have an opportunity to go and set up in panama. i refer him to article v of the neutrality treaty. which is the very treaty we are debating here today. it very clearly says that after termination of the canal treatyin other words. from the year 2000 on--only the republic of panama shall operate the canal and maintain military forces. defense sites. and military installations within its national territory. so the opportunity for the panamanians to welcome in the cubans under that is just against the treaty. one can say. oh. well. it is against the treaty. so what. but there the facts are: it is against the treaty. of course. if it presents a threat to the neutrality of the canal. we are all familiar with what the rights are of the united states under this treaty. so i think it is important for the senator to bear that in mind and for the senate to bear it in mind. because. under the present situation as it  exists. there is hing to keep cuban troops from coming into panama. under the 1903 treaties. cuban troops could come in there in the zone. but they could come into panama. so this treaty accomplishes just the things that the senator from th carolina is concerned about. it keeps the cubans out. i thank the chair.
. i wish to ask a few questions of the senator from michigan. who previously spoke on this. and i regret i was  able to hear his entire remarks. but it seems to me that this piece of legislation. that is before us. is portrayed as a piece of legislation that corrects some of the procedural difficulties that have arisen and have been. in fact. exploited by those who are trying to avoid the purposes of the original wagner act. of course. it is frequently cited that the villain of the piece is j. p. stevens and that through the use of highpriced legal talent. skilled maneuvering in the courts. they have prevented those who have voted for a union from achieving that right which they have legitimately achieved. basically. as i understand it. that is it. let me quote from the senator from new york who spoke on the merits of this piece of legislation. "it is a moderate bill which attempts hing more than to put a stop to the continuing erosion of existing rights and protection" through the courts. through legal maneuverings. is that about it.
. i am pleased to join my colleague from rhode island introducing legislation to deal with the problems surrounding claims of the narragansett indians in the town of charlestown. r.i. i am sure that many of my colleagues in the senate are aware of the complexity of this issue. while litigation and negotiations in similar cases elsewhere are underway. there is definite idea of when those cases will be decided. hence. it would be some time before we had guidelines for determining the validity of indian claims and providing a fair settlement. claims in other states have received more publicityeither because of the size of the claims or the degree of confrontation between the indians. the private landholders. and the public officials trying to come to grips with this problem. but the situation in rhode island is less perplexing than any of the others. on the basis of total acreage. the claims by the narragansett indians against rhode island certainly are  among the largest of those filed by the various indian tribes across the country. they do. however. represent one of the highest ratios of acreage under suit to total state size. all -of the parties involved in this settlement deserves a large amount of credit. they maintained a spirit of cooperation throughout many months of deliberations and the protracted negotiations that were needed to assure a high degree of support from the federal government. it was this spirit which contributed greatly to the speed of reaching a final settlement. this lack of animosity should  be mistaken for disinterest on the part of any of the parties. the citizens of charlestown. who are waiting for this case to be settled. are being held in a twilight zone of uncertainty. they find themselves in limbo. unable to exercise the basic rights mally associated with owning property. their inability to get clear title to their land prevents them from liquidating their estate. either for business or personal reasons. they are unable to acquire the credit necessary to make improvements to their property. congress has the opportunity to help put an end to this uncertainty. furthermore. the federal government can  show its support for a solution to the indian land claim problem that satisfies all the participants. this legislation does  represent an attempt by the federal government to impose a solution of their own design onto unwilling parties. rather it represents the consensus of the affected parties in rhode island that is the fairest. fastest. and most equitable way of settling this problem. staff members from the rhode island delegation and representatives of the parties concerned have spent much time and effort in getting the ball rolling toward settling these claims. senator pell and i anticipate prompt action from the committees having jurisdiction over this legislation. i urge the full senate to act on it as quickly as possible when it comes to the floor.o
. the position of solicitor general. while  widely recognized. is an important one in our federal system of government. the solicitor general is responsible for setting policy and conducting litigation for the united states before the supreme court. all of the appeals filed by agencies of the u.s. government must be approved by the solicitor. in addition. the opinions of the solicitor general are frequently requested by the court in government cases that raise constitutional or federal issues. clearly. the solicitor general is in a uniquely powerful position to influence laws that cover almost every aspect of american life. for this reason. it is extremely important that a solicitor be impartial and objective in his choice of cases. and that he have thle kvledge. ability. and experience to litigate these cases effectively on behalf of the united states. certainly. mr. lee has shown the requisite kledge of the law to litigate effectively. his previous work with the department of justice. as wvell as his activities in the private sector. speak well of him in this regard. however. in the course of hearings beforce the senate judiciary committee. some criticism was raised about mr. lees record and positions. especially as they relate to womens issues. after carefully reviewing both these criticisms and mr. lees record. it is my judgment that mr. lee merits confirmation by the senate. my support for his ination. though. does  lessen concern for what his role will be as solicitor regarding the rights of women in our society. women still face discrimination in many areas of our society. for example: fulltime working women earn 60 cents for each dollar earned by a man. women make up 70 percent of the teachers in our school system. but are 20 times less likely to be promoted to principal than a male teacher. and seventyeight percent of the women in the federal government are in 058 levels or below. there are many cases dealing with womens rights presently in the courts. these cases deal  only with the extension of time for ratification of the equal rights amendment or the legality of rescission votes by state legislatures. but with issues that go to the heart of this ecoic discrimination. as elected representatives. members of this body have a direct and immediate interest in the performance of the federal government before the supreme court. with this statement. it is my intention to make sure that mr. lee is aware that. while myself and other members of congress do have concerns about his record in this regard. we anticipate that his actions as solicitor will be sufficiently evenhanded to put these concerns t6 rest.
 reagan has indicated his support .or these various bills and amendments. he also made it clear last year that he wanted votes on them delayed until his ecoic legislation had been acted upon. given the current state of the budget and the continuing recession. i believe it is fair to say that ecoic considerations continue to dominate the administrations priority list. however. the senate rules to allow any senator the right to propose any piece of legislation as an amendment to aher bill. with the possible exception of abortion. where there is a deep division in antiabortion ranks over whether to pursue the hatch constitutional amendment or proceed with the helms bill. i believe that efforts will be made in coming months to debate and pass some of these proposals as riders to other legislation. while i have outlined the major bills  pending that would deal with divisive issues by restricting the jurisdiction of the federal courts. well over 50 such proposals have been introduced on a variety of topics.  all of them dealing with busing. abortion. or school prayer. this is why these bills are so dangerous. if only one or two of them should succeed and be enacted into law. it does  take much imagination to foresee a time when this approach could be applied to rights that are  taken for granted. today. the major issues are busing or school prayer. tomorrow it could be voting rights for 18yearolds. regulation of newspapers. invasion of privacy. or protection of property rights. our system of government is imperfect. but it is the best that has ever been devised to protect the rights of individuals. one of the major reasons it has fared well is because of our independent federal judiciary. as institutions. the presidency and the congress are both susceptible to popular whims of the moment. there have been dark moments in our history when fear caused the legislative and executive branches to turn away in the face of public hysteria. the anticatholic excesses of the "khings" of the 1850s. the "red scare" of the 1920s. the antisemitism and racial bigotry of the ku klux klan early in this century. and the anticommunist witch hunt of joe mccarthy in the 1950s come readily to rmind. in many of these cases. it was an independent judiciary that stood up. finally. to bigotry. discrimination. and prejudice. the courts are  perfect. and there is some merit to the addage that judges read election results as much as politicians. but there have been many moments in this nation when the courts were all we had to protect fundamental liberties. i do  what to see the time come when congress can tell a federal judge he can enforce constitutional rights. i do  want to see the time come when the ruling passions of the day. whether they emanate from right or from the left. dictate the extent to which the bill of rights will be enforced. the challenge to our courts today comes from the extreme right. and especially from the religious right of the moral majority and organizations such as christian voice. which has decreed that my voting record in 1981 was only 17 percent "moral" because i voted against tax indexing. against the dismantlement of the legal services corporation. for aid to the african nation of zimbabwe. and in favor of a resolution that we maintain existing arms limitation agreements with the soviet union. tomorrow. the challenge could come from the extreme left. it would be just as pernicious. let me close by quoting from a senator who is k as "mr. conservative"-barry goldwater. this is what senator goldwater had to say in a memorable statement in the senate when he annced his opposition to the helmsjohnston amendment: to make a frontal assault on the independence of the courts is a dangerous blow to the foundations of a free society. it is contrary to the will of the framers (of the constitution). it is destructive of the federal system. and it will result in the reverse outcome of what the courts critics wish. . . . i see safe boundaries on the use of the power claimed for congress. the same club wielded by social issue groups today can be swung against them in the future. . .. if there is independent tribunal to check legislative or executive action. all the written guarantees of rights in the world would amount to hing. i agree.
. the may 1982 edition of audubon magazine contained an article by david quammen entitled "jeremy bentham. the pieta. and a precious few grayling." a portion of that article is of particular interest in connection with consideration of this legislation. the potential. unkn utility of genetic diversity is the most frequently .cited justification for the preservation of endangered and threatened species. mr. quammen eloquently es the limitations of such a utilitarian approach to legislation and suggests a compelling. alternative argument. i ask that the excerpt i refer to. from pages 100 and 101 of the magazine. be printed in the record at this time. the material referred to follows:
. it is our hope that this legislation will accomplish its objectivenamely. to punish those who make it their business to disclose the names of our agents who are serving this nation abroad. serving us as americans. our fellow americans who were sent overseas to accomplish missions for us. on behalf of this country. we do  believe that other americans should be disclosing their names. that.is the objective of this legislation. we believe we have tailored it so that we are able to walk that narrow boundary between the objectives we seek and the protection of rights under the first amendment. i see the distinguished chairman of the full committee in the chamber. and if he wishes to make any remarks. we will be glad to hear them at this time.
. today marks the beginning of of a new effort to gain ratification of the equal rights amendment. this effort will  stop until ratification is achieved. many of us experienced great disappointment over the failure of a final few states to ratify this muchneeded measure. it was painful to come so close. yet see ratification fail in the end. at the same time. the emous support which the amendment received means that we. as a nation. are ready to grant men and women equal protection under the law. final ratification of the era will prove to be a mark of this nations civility and maturity. we will be making a huge step forward when the amendment is finally part of the constitution. and we should  despair of the time and effort the struggle has taken. history shows such accomplishments have  always been achieved with grace or with ease. as witnessed by the battle to grant women the right to vote. or that which was necessary to provide members of miity groups with basic civil rights. this country was torn over making those decisionsyet we made them because they were the right thing to do. that is why i have doubt this country will ultimately ratify the era. it is the right thing to do. the merits of the equal rights amendment have been thoroughly debated. in the absence of this amendment. discrimination continues to exist in education. in employment. in the granting of credit and insurance. and in the receipt of benefits. we have shown that state action is  egh. indeed. the very suggestion that an issue as basic as "equality of rights under the law"-for this is what the era addressesis a state or local matter reflects a misunderstanding of the principles on which this country has beenand ought to bebased. just as the united states could . in the end. leave the abolition of slavery to the states. or the right of women to vote. so we must enshrine in the constitutior ultimate document of lawa prohibition on discrimination based upon gender. the era is an amendment for men as well as for women. it will benefit both by helping to eradicate distortions and biases in the law. as well as discriminatory practices which continue to exist. it is time to move forward and reaffirm our commitment to equality under the law through passage and ratification of the equal rights amendment.e
. the may 1982 edition of audubon magazine contained an article by david quammen entitled "jeremy bentham. the pieta. and a precious few grayling." a portion of that article is of particular interest in connection with consideration of this legislation. the potential. unkn utility of genetic diversity is the most frequently cited justification for the preservation of endangered and threatened species. mr. quammen eloquently es the limitations of such a utilitarian approach to legislation and suggests a compelling. alternative argument. i ask that the excerpt i refer to. from pages 100 and 101 of the magazine. be printed in the record at this time. the material referred to follows:
. february 16. 1985. the anniversary of lithuanias declaration of independence. passed quietly. without fanfare. fireworks. or elaborate celebration. it passed mainly uniced because the people of lithuania are neither independent  are they free. under domination by the soviet union since june 1940. the people of lithuania have been deprived of the basic human rights and personal freedoms that we in the united states take for granted. free to speak our minds. free to gather with whom we choose. free to worship in any church. it is difficult for americans to fully comprehend the suppression under which so many courageous people live. we think of these basic personal liberties as rights rather than privileges. and while they are indeed rightsbasic human rightsthey are denied to literally millions of human beings. the people of lithuania are prisoners in their own homeland. the right to selfdetermination has been stripped away from them. their country has been absorbed into the tyranny of totalitarianism. yet. they continue to fight to retain their culture and heritage. they are a proud and courageous people. it is through their struggle and that of so many other suppressed peoples that we must reaffirm our commitment to human rights. on days such as february 16. it is important to recognize and pay tribute to those who are denied freedom and independence. let us once again call to mind the struggle and hardships of the lithuanian people. and ackledge the contributions lithuanian americans have made to our great nation.e
. i am pleased today to join senators kennedy and weicker as a cosponsor of s. 635. the antiapartheid act of 1985. we are all too familiar with human rights violations in countries around the world. the list is endless: the soviet union. afghanistan. uganda. ethiopia. th korea. iran. syria. chile. paraguay. and. of course. south africa. as a violator of human rights. south africa is unique among nations. other countries may commit gross human rights violations. but south africa is the only regime in the world that constitutionally and legally enshrines racism by denying over fourfifths of its populatio the simple basis of racethe right to participate in government. those fundamental rights that most americans take for grantedfreedom of speech. equal protection under the law. freedom of assembly. the right to bear arms. due process of the laware systematically denied to blacks in south africa. this unjust system has been upheld by constant arrests. forced removals. detentions without trial. bannings. and executions.  apartheid is certainly  new in south africa. whites have oppressed blacks there since 1652 when they first went to south africa. this oppression was finally institutionalized in 1948 by the national afrikaner party. what is more recent. however. is this administrations permissive attitude toward south africa. as embodied in its policy of constructive engagement. the successes of this policy are very few indeed. the escalation of violence. death. and despair among the black population in south africa in the last 4 years makes me wonder what we are doing to bring about peace and change to that country. constructive engagement has borne little fruit and needs to be reassessed. the daily violence. massacres. and dangers facing the black population in south africa are intolerable. the policy of apartheid. responsible for this violence and inhumanity. must end. and the united states must do its part to help. there are various proposals for how the united states can oppose apartheid. ecoic leverage is what s. 635 is all about. the investment leverage used in this bill is a strong and effective statement of u.s. opposition to the apartheid system. the measures proposed send a clear message to both white and black south africans that the united states stands on the side of freedom and justice. it is time the senate had the courage to go beyond mere verbal disapproval of apartheid. by imposing several significant ecoic sanctions against the south african government. we take a step toward urging peaceful change in that country. if there are opportunities for pressing the afrikaner regime into taking bolder steps. then lets use the best leverage we have with themu.s. investmentto do so. in doing so we impose a cost on pretoria for its continued maintenance of apartheid. s. 635 is a direct way to do just that.e
. today marks the beginning of of a new effort to gain ratification of the equal rights amendment. this effort will  stop until ratification is achieved. many of us experienced great disappointment over the failure of a final few states to ratify this muchneeded measure. it was painful to come so close. yet see ratification fail in the end. at the same time. the emous support which the amendment received means that we. as a nation. are ready to grant men and women equal protection under the law. final ratification of the era will prove to be a mark of this nations civility and maturity. we will be making a huge step forward when the amendment is finally part of the constitution. and we should  despair of the time and effort the struggle has taken. history shows such accomplishments have  always been achieved with grace or with ease. as witnessed by the battle to grant women the right to vote. or that which was necessary to provide members of miity groups with basic civil rights. this country was torn over making those decisionsyet we made them because they were the right thing to do. that is why i have doubt this country will ultimately ratify the era. it is the right thing to do. the merits of the equal rights amendment have been thoroughly debated. in the absence of this amendment. discrimination continues to exist in education. in employment. in the granting of credit and insurance. and in the receipt of benefits. we have shown that state action is  egh. indeed. the very suggestion that an issue as basic as "equality of rights under the law"-for this is what the era addressesis a state or local matter reflects a misunderstanding of the principles on which this country has beenand ought to bebased. just as the united states could . in the end. leave the abolition of slavery to the states. or the right of women to vote. so we must enshrine in the constitutior ultimate document of lawa prohibition on discrimination based upon gender. the era is an amendment for men as well as for women. it will benefit both by helping to eradicate distortions and biases in the law. as well as discriminatory practices which continue to exist. it is time to move forward and reaffirm our commitment to equality under the law through passage and ratification of the equal rights amendment.e
. the may 1982 edition of audubon magazine contained an article by david quammen entitled "jeremy bentham. the pieta. and a precious few grayling." a portion of that article is of particular interest in connection with consideration of this legislation. the potential. unkn utility of genetic diversity is the most frequently cited justification for the preservation of endangered and threatened species. mr. quammen eloquently es the limitations of such a utilitarian approach to legislation and suggests a compelling. alternative argument. i ask that the excerpt i refer to. from pages 100 and 101 of the magazine. be printed in the record at this time. the material referred to follows:
. february 16. 1985. the anniversary of lithuanias declaration of independence. passed quietly. without fanfare. fireworks. or elaborate celebration. it passed mainly uniced because the people of lithuania are neither independent  are they free. under domination by the soviet union since june 1940. the people of lithuania have been deprived of the basic human rights and personal freedoms that we in the united states take for granted. free to speak our minds. free to gather with whom we choose. free to worship in any church. it is difficult for americans to fully comprehend the suppression under which so many courageous people live. we think of these basic personal liberties as rights rather than privileges. and while they are indeed rightsbasic human rightsthey are denied to literally millions of human beings. the people of lithuania are prisoners in their own homeland. the right to selfdetermination has been stripped away from them. their country has been absorbed into the tyranny of totalitarianism. yet. they continue to fight to retain their culture and heritage. they are a proud and courageous people. it is through their struggle and that of so many other suppressed peoples that we must reaffirm our commitment to human rights. on days such as february 16. it is important to recognize and pay tribute to those who are denied freedom and independence. let us once again call to mind the struggle and hardships of the lithuanian people. and ackledge the contributions lithuanian americans have made to our great nation.e
. i am pleased today to join senators kennedy and weicker as a cosponsor of s. 635. the antiapartheid act of 1985. we are all too familiar with human rights violations in countries around the world. the list is endless: the soviet union. afghanistan. uganda. ethiopia. th korea. iran. syria. chile. paraguay. and. of course. south africa. as a violator of human rights. south africa is unique among nations. other countries may commit gross human rights violations. but south africa is the only regime in the world that constitutionally and legally enshrines racism by denying over fourfifths of its populatio the simple basis of racethe right to participate in government. those fundamental rights that most americans take for grantedfreedom of speech. equal protection under the law. freedom of assembly. the right to bear arms. due process of the laware systematically denied to blacks in south africa. this unjust system has been upheld by constant arrests. forced removals. detentions without trial. bannings. and executions.  apartheid is certainly  new in south africa. whites have oppressed blacks there since 1652 when they first went to south africa. this oppression was finally institutionalized in 1948 by the national afrikaner party. what is more recent. however. is this administrations permissive attitude toward south africa. as embodied in its policy of constructive engagement. the successes of this policy are very few indeed. the escalation of violence. death. and despair among the black population in south africa in the last 4 years makes me wonder what we are doing to bring about peace and change to that country. constructive engagement has borne little fruit and needs to be reassessed. the daily violence. massacres. and dangers facing the black population in south africa are intolerable. the policy of apartheid. responsible for this violence and inhumanity. must end. and the united states must do its part to help. there are various proposals for how the united states can oppose apartheid. ecoic leverage is what s. 635 is all about. the investment leverage used in this bill is a strong and effective statement of u.s. opposition to the apartheid system. the measures proposed send a clear message to both white and black south africans that the united states stands on the side of freedom and justice. it is time the senate had the courage to go beyond mere verbal disapproval of apartheid. by imposing several significant ecoic sanctions against the south african government. we take a step toward urging peaceful change in that country. if there are opportunities for pressing the afrikaner regime into taking bolder steps. then lets use the best leverage we have with themu.s. investmentto do so. in doing so we impose a cost on pretoria for its continued maintenance of apartheid. s. 635 is a direct way to do just that.e
in either case. with or without that word. we are opening the way to litigation in this. those are the points that were raised by the senator from alaska. and i agree with them. more important however. is the fact that the united states is made up of all sorts people from diverse backgrounds and of diverseldigious faiths. and that has been one of our great strengths. one of our other strengths has been that in this country we have  permitted diversity to breed divisiveness. one of the great levelers of our society is the armed forces. when people enter the armed services. they become part of an institution that is  just for the rich. for the poor. the black. the white. the episcopalians. the greek orthodox. muslims. or whathaveyou. there are variations from the rules and regualtions. they apply to everyone uniformly. indeed. our service men and women wear a uniform to make them part of the whole. the very word "uniform" says it all it refers to unity. to making the unified effort. it is this unity that the united states has been able to achieve in our armed forces that has contributed to our victories in the wars. i believe that one person wearing a crucifix or aher symbol. hanging next to his pocket. for example. may promote divisiveness in his unit. it has been pointed out that other countries do have this. that in the israeli defense forces. which are surely one of the most efficient military forces in the world. yarmulkes and other forms of demonstration of religious faith are permitted. but in those countries there is a more homoges population. and people tend to come from a more uniform religious background. such is  true in the united states. i think we would be making .a big mistake to permit in this way the accentuation of the differences between the members of our military forces. there is need for this change. indeed. we are  a voluntary service: anyone who comes into our military services comes in accepting the rules as they are. one is allowed to be an exception to those rules. if they dont like the rules. they do  have to enlist.
. today i join mr. levin and several other of my distinguished colleagues in introducing a bill to create a national voluntary reunion registry to assist birth parents. adoptees. and siblings in their search for each other. this measure that we introduce today will establish a 3 year demonstration project in which biological parents. adult adoptees. and biological siblings may voluntarily find each other through a centralized network. all parties would have to. on their own. voluntarily enter the system. the national voluntary reunion registry would  search for one party at the request of aher. the registry will be developed by the secretary of health and human services. who through contract with public or private profit agencies will create a computerized clearinghouse system to facilitate a match of requests. the bill contains provisions making it unlawful for information contained in the clearinghouse to be disclosed for unintended purposes. because it will be strictly voluntary. this registry will  result in unwelcome or unexpected reunions. in order to reunite an adoptee and his or her birth parent. each must independently contact the registry. it is only when on this independent basis a match is made that a reunion can be facilitated. adoption. by definition. is an emotional issue. some birth parents wish to leave their past behind them. for a number of valid reasons. some adoptees as well. do  wish to find their birth parent. these wishes are the right of the individuals involved. and we should hold that right in the highest regard. yet. the pain and frustration of many adoptees and birth parents is that they do seek each other and are blocked every step of the way by the state laws that assume they wish to remain unkn. if there were any way we could protect the rights of those who wished to remain aymnus. as well as help those who want to be together once again. we should undoubtedly pursue it. a national voluntary registry will create the balance of rights we need. in addition. it will enable families to reunite even if they live on different coasts. as an increasing number of adoptions are made on an outofstate basis. this is an important factor. statecreated registries can fulfill this need. the cost of this clearinghouse and registry is expected to be about $300.000 in the first year. and future costs are to be offset by reasonable fees paid by registrants. it is a small cost to pay to enable dreams of reunions to become reality. there are many viable reasons birthparents seek their adopted offspring. and just as many viable reasons adoptees seek their biological parents. the news is full of accounts of the long and frustrating searches of people who want hing more than to k their rootsor their genetic background. i am aware of cases where natural parents were sought to provide organs for transplants for their adopted children. siblings who were separated at birth conduct their searches with hopes.  of disturbing ghosts of the past. but of establishing familial bonds that were broken because of circumstances of adoptive placement. it could only be a positive result when two peoples mutual wish to meet again is made possible because of a simple clearinghouse. in the spirit of the season. and in support of those who have been searching for a long timei urge my colleagues to join me in cosponsoring this measure.
. i am pleased to join with my distinguished colleague senator simon in introducing a bill to designate september 15 through october 15 of each year as "national hispanic heritage month." the hispanic population in the united states is made up of almost 20 million people. and that number is growing. hispanic achievements in every discipline contribute to americas greatness. and the richness of hispanic culture has become an integral part of american life. hispanic heritage is american heritage. it is fitting at this juncture to set aside time for all americans to increase their understanding and appreciation of hispanic culture and achievement in this country. for me. this is an especially important undertaking. in my capacity as chairman of the republican conference. i joined a few months ago in the formation of a republican task force on hispanic affairs. which is chaired by the senator from utah. the purpose of this task force is to evaluate and respond to the concerns of the hispanic community. the task force aims to help hispanicamericans make their voices heard by giving them access to policymakers at the national level. its mission is to assess hispanic needs in areas such as education. employment. health care. and ecoic development and to recommend future policy initiatives to congress and the executive branch. our work will be much facilitated by a national focus on tile hispanicamerican community and its importance to our social fabric. increased awareness and appreciation of the hispanic community and its contributions will lead to increased consideration of hispanic needs when federal policy is developed. i commend the senator from illis for seeking to set aside a month each year for the recognition of our hispanic heritage. and hope the senate will waste time in taking up this worthy legislation. 0 deconcini (for himself. mr.
. i would make just one last point. simply put. we can mandate resnect and pride in the flag. it is far better to act from motives of love and respect than out of obedience. like many of my colleagues. i am a veteran. even more importantly. i am a u.s. citizen. i value our flag. but i value far less the cloth of the flag than the beliefs and rights for which it stands. when i fought. i fought for freedom. the burning of the flag is .  ever has been. an imminent threat to national security. our tolerance of the act of burning the flaghowever contempitible that act may beis an affirmation of our most fundamental values. our strength. and our wisdom.
. the shadow of prejudice has begun to loom larger over our society. the number of horrific crimesmurder. rape. beatings. arsonmotivated by hate appears to have increased in .recent years. hate crimes are hing new. unfortunately. but the viciousness and senselessness of recent crimes is numbing: an ethiopian man was beaten to death with a baseball bat last june by a 23yearold white skinhead member. two gay men were shot repeatedly with a revolver by a college freshman. both men died. in july. a synagogue was severely vandalized and then set on fire by a teenager. a hispanic woman was killed by a gang of skinhead youths. i might add thathate crimes are  limited to those that result in death. or the destruction of property. there are crimes that can be devastating in psychological terms: poison pen letters. graffiti. intimidation. verbal harassment. it is frightening to read even the limited. information  available on hate crime. the antidefamation league estimates that since 1980. the number of antisemitic episodes has tripled. the estimated number of sexual orientation bias crimes has also skyrocketed. it is frightening that many of. these documented -acts are committed by teenagers and young people. most of whom are still in high school. i currently. eight states monitor hate crime episodes. and their. respective law enforcement agencies have found such data to be valuable in detecting trends. gauging the extent of the problem. and directing educational and enforcement efforts. simply put. kledge makes it possible to act. that is what we need. we need to k more. about hate crime. we need to k where and why it happens. without information. there is progress. and we are sadly lacking in information. until we have some sense of the larger picture.. we can begin to fight to prevent such crime.. i applaud attorney general richard thornburgh for his promise to make hate crime prosecutions a priority. that pledge has resulted in more prosecutions of organized hate groups for racial violence. this bill will help law enforcement agencies nationwide to begin coming to grips with this terrible problem. i urge my colleagues to support. this important measure.  american should live in fear of being harassedlet alone beaten. attacked. or killedas a result of his or her race. religion. sexual orientation. or ethnicity.
. we have reached an agreement with the administration after. as everyone said. many long hours of negotiations. this is outside the scope. this subject was part of the agreement and this deviates from what we agreed to. obviously the senator from new jersey reserved his rights to differ. as he has. but those of us who subscribe to the agreement are going to stick to it. thus. i will join in the motion to table
. i have some trouble with what we are doing tonight. there are hearings that have been held on this amendment and there are obviously some constitutional questions. i would just like to bring one particular point to the attention of the senate. as i understand this legislation. a subset of gender discrimination. which is one of the matters as part of this bill. is sexual harassment. under the procedure that has been set up under the legislation. if a female employee believes that she has been sexually harassed by a senator. she goes through a series of procedural steps: counseling. mediation. and then the last. the third step is formal complaint and hearing by a threemember independent hearing panel. . that panel sits in judgment. and at the end of that time it will issue a written decision within 45 days of concluding the hearing. all remedies available under the referenced laws. including unlimited compensatory damages. will be available to the aggrieved senate employee. let us take the situation where. indeed. the panel finds that the senator is guilty and awards the aggrieved employee $20.000 of compensatory damages. those compensatory damages are paid by the taxpayer. i ask the distinguished senator from new hampshire if i am  correct in that.
madam president. i would like to take a few minutes to speak against the amendment offered by the senator from th carolina. this amendment would severely hamper our ability to participate fully in the upcoming international conference on population and development to be held in cairo. it would also hamper our ability to participate fully in future conferences on population issues. what this amendment would do is effectively prohibit representatives of the united states from discussing the laws and policies of any foreign country with respect to abortion. while our representatives in cairo will  be attempting to change the legal status of abortion in any country. they willbe strategizing on ways to reduce injuries and deaths which result from unsafe abortions. it seems to me that the u.s. representatives will  .be able. under this amendment. even to attempt to find a solution to this problem of deaths from abortions. deaths from abortions that take place in countries where abortions are forbidden. and if they can discuss the abortion laws and policies of other countries. obviously they can get into the problem of the deaths that arise in those countries from unsafe- abortions. madam president. we have all lived through the agonizing debate and discussion on the gag rule and the mexico city policy. policies which prohibited the mere mention of abortion in family planning clinics. fortunately. we are rid of those misguided policies which unfortunately held sway for several years here. the amendment before us this morning would start us right down that same path of limiting the subjects that we may or we may  discuss. at the last international conference on population. we came away with the onerous mexico city policy which took us many years to do away with. i am pleased that we have an opportunity in cairo for a fresh start. i look forward to the united states taking a lead role in reducing the incidents of. unsafe abortions. as well as addressing the critical issue of population explosion throughout our world. these issues simply can be addressed without addressing the issue of abortion. let us  tie the hands of our representatives by restricting what they can or can discuss. i urge my colleagues to reject the helms amendment. i thank the chair.
. i ask unanimous consent that the committee on the judiciary be authorized to meet during the session of the senate on friday. ember 17. 1995. at 9 a.m. to hold a hearing on h.r. 1833. the partialbirth abortion ban act of 1995.
. an employee whose behavior in the workplace is inappropriate deserves protection from sanction. a gay employee who makes inappropriate statements or otherwise conducts him or herself in an inappropriate manner should  be countenanced. that is clear. the same would apply to a gay individual who conducts him or herself inappropriately. that conduct would  be tolerated. as my colleague from california.
. could you give the time situation. the agreement is that each side will have 1 hour. i see senators here who will speak for the amendment i am  worried about that. but i want to protect the rights of any senators who might come over and would be against the amendment. the . presiding officer . the senator from new jersey has 22 minutes remaining. the senator from rhode island has 59 minutes 30 seconds.
thank you very much. madam president. i want to thank the distinguished senior senator from vermont for permitting me to proceed. madam president. i oppose the motion to proceed to consider s. 2271. the socalled property rights implementation act of 1998. i urge my colleagues to vote against cloture. quite simply. s. 2271 is a bad bill and we should  be spending any further time on this legislation. in my judgment. the bill would put federal courts in the position of secondguessing local land management decisions. it would make it significantly more difficult for state and local governments to implement zoning restrictions. preserve neighborhoods. or protect environmentally sensitive areas. madam president. this bill is opposed by virtually every national organization representing state and local governmentsthe national govers association. the national association of counties. the national league of cities. the conference of mayors. the national conference of state legislatures. amongst others. the nations largest environmental groups are also strongly opposed to this legislation. i might say. madam president. if anybody wonders whether this is an environmental vote. it is. and i k that many around here say that the environmentalists are  very fair in their scoring. well. here they have given clear ice that this is an item that resonates deeply with them. they are strongly opposed to this legislation. the environmental groups. the administration is strongly opposed. the attorney general and the secretary of the interior and the administrator of the epa and the chairwoman of the council on environmental qualityall of them oppose this. madam president. i do  k whether these letters have been put in the record previously. but i would just like to read. if i mighti wish the senator from utah were here. but perhaps he will be back. but i am going to just read. if i might. a couple of these letters. this is from the national govers association. the national association of counties. the national conference of state legislatures. the national league of cities. the united states conference of mayors. this is dated july 10. 1998. this isnt some old letter we dragged out. this is dated july 103.days ago. to all senators: on behalf of the nations govers. state legislators. and local elected officials. we are writing to express our strong opposition to s. 2271. the "private property rights implementation act of 1998." we believe the proposed legislation. including the proposed technical amendments. would fundamentally interfere with and preempt the traditional and historic rights and responsibilities of state and local governments and would mdndate significant new unfunded costs for all state and local taxpayers. state and local elected officials are as deeply committed to protecting private property rights as are members of congress. a review of the most recent proposed revisions to the legislationyour legislation. i say to senator hatch. i thought you might be interested in what the govers and others have to say about it. they say your most recent revisions:  . . do  address our fundamental problems with the bill. we continue to believe that s. 2271 goes far beyond its stated objectives. if passed. the bill would undermine state and local government authority over land use and regulatory decisions by allowing developers and property owners to take their grievances directly to federal court. circumventing legal remedies on the state and local level. such an "end run" around the processes established by our state law runs counter to the foundations of federalism ... the bill preempts the traditional systems for resolving local zoning. land use. and regulatory disputes. it creates a disincentive for developers to negotiate with localities in order to reach mutually agreeable solutions. and it puts federal judges... imagine this: the federal government. federal judges. the very group we are so warned about frequently on this floor. and what is more. they are labeled frequently as activist federal judges. suddenly we are putting them in charge. i am shocked by this.
. i certainly hope that this socalled property rights implementation act of 1998. which is going to come before us in a half an hour on a question of cloturei certainly hope that everybody will vote against cloture. i thank the distinguished senator from washington for letting me speak.
. could you give the time situation. the agreement is that each side will have 1 hour. i see senators here who will speak for the amendment i am  worried about that. but i want to protect the rights of any senators who might come over and would be against the amendment. the . presiding officer . the senator from new jersey has 22 minutes remaining. the senator from rhode island has 59 minutes 30 seconds.
thank you very much. madam president. i want to thank the distinguished senior senator from vermont for permitting me to proceed. madam president. i oppose the motion to proceed to consider s. 2271. the socalled property rights implementation act of 1998. i urge my colleagues to vote against cloture. quite simply. s. 2271 is a bad bill and we should  be spending any further time on this legislation. in my judgment. the bill would put federal courts in the position of secondguessing local land management decisions. it would make it significantly more difficult for state and local governments to implement zoning restrictions. preserve neighborhoods. or protect environmentally sensitive areas. madam president. this bill is opposed by virtually every national organization representing state and local governmentsthe national govers association. the national association of counties. the national league of cities. the conference of mayors. the national conference of state legislatures. amongst others. the nations largest environmental groups are also strongly opposed to this legislation. i might say. madam president. if anybody wonders whether this is an environmental vote. it is. and i k that many around here say that the environmentalists are  very fair in their scoring. well. here they have given clear ice that this is an item that resonates deeply with them. they are strongly opposed to this legislation. the environmental groups. the administration is strongly opposed. the attorney general and the secretary of the interior and the administrator of the epa and the chairwoman of the council on environmental qualityall of them oppose this. madam president. i do  k whether these letters have been put in the record previously. but i would just like to read. if i mighti wish the senator from utah were here. but perhaps he will be back. but i am going to just read. if i might. a couple of these letters. this is from the national govers association. the national association of counties. the national conference of state legislatures. the national league of cities. the united states conference of mayors. this is dated july 10. 1998. this isnt some old letter we dragged out. this is dated july 103.days ago. to all senators: on behalf of the nations govers. state legislators. and local elected officials. we are writing to express our strong opposition to s. 2271. the "private property rights implementation act of 1998." we believe the proposed legislation. including the proposed technical amendments. would fundamentally interfere with and preempt the traditional and historic rights and responsibilities of state and local governments and would mdndate significant new unfunded costs for all state and local taxpayers. state and local elected officials are as deeply committed to protecting private property rights as are members of congress. a review of the most recent proposed revisions to the legislationyour legislation. i say to senator hatch. i thought you might be interested in what the govers and others have to say about it. they say your most recent revisions:  . . do  address our fundamental problems with the bill. we continue to believe that s. 2271 goes far beyond its stated objectives. if passed. the bill would undermine state and local government authority over land use and regulatory decisions by allowing developers and property owners to take their grievances directly to federal court. circumventing legal remedies on the state and local level. such an "end run" around the processes established by our state law runs counter to the foundations of federalism ... the bill preempts the traditional systems for resolving local zoning. land use. and regulatory disputes. it creates a disincentive for developers to negotiate with localities in order to reach mutually agreeable solutions. and it puts federal judges... imagine this: the federal government. federal judges. the very group we are so warned about frequently on this floor. and what is more. they are labeled frequently as activist federal judges. suddenly we are putting them in charge. i am shocked by this.
. i certainly hope that this socalled property rights implementation act of 1998. which is going to come before us in a half an hour on a question of cloturei certainly hope that everybody will vote against cloture. i thank the distinguished senator from washington for letting me speak.
. i thank my colleague from wisconsin for clearly stating the circumstances behind this legislation. i would like to spend a few minutes this morning specifically addressing myself to some of the comments that have been made by the proponents of the bill. first of all. as has been mentioned by the senator from connecticut. i do  thing anybody in the chamber enjoys a favored position of righteousness with regard to controlled time. filibusters. and so forth. we. the opponents of the bill. have said all along that we felt it was necessary. in order to develop the facts. that we do spend time on the bill. i think it is important to e. in the context of what people usually conceive of as a filibuster. that there has been reading of magazines. articles. or extraneous materials. this bill is so full of holes that one could stand here for months and be absolutely germaneabsolutely . and strictly germane. by the same token. yesterday. when it was necessary for the proponents of the bill to rally the troops. get the forces back in town they certainly did  want any controlled time. they made that very clear in the debate that took place then. i think that is fair egh. i think they felt that discussion was necessary to show how that amendment would do harm to their position. i think it is also fair that those of us who oppose the pending legislation have sufficient time to expose all of this bills deficiencies. the senator from georgia mentioned agricultural subsidies. sugar quotas. and so forth. i think they are excellent examples of what happens when the government involves itself in the free ecoy of this country. i think the agricultural subsidy program. overall. if looked upon objectively. has been a disaster to the agricultural community of this nation. it has been harmful. yet we have started it. and we can stop it.  we are going to go ahead and get into aher areathe airframe manufacture. comment was made by my colleagues. the proponents of the bill. that i indicated they were  sincere in pushing for this legislation. i in way wanted to give the impression that they were  sincere. i think they are. however. i do  think they are enthusiastic. i do  think there is any degree of enthusiasm in their having to come here and push for this type of specialinterest legislation. to show the diversity of opinions even among the proponents of the bill. i would like to quote some of the statements that were made in the bills behalf. and i really would like to warn my colleagues who are pushing the bill  to get carried away with their enthusiasm. otherwise they will find themselves in the same overoptimistic state that lockheed found itself in when it launched on this proof july 26. the senator from tennessee
. i rise in support of the amendment of the senator from colorado. there is something that i think should be made very clear before we vote. this is  an anticivil rights amendment. there is  an anticivil rights group and a procivil rights group. the senator from colorado and those who support his amendment are just as procivil rights in their desire to see enforcement go to the eeoc as the senator from new york and the senator from new jersey. it is a question of method. i think it should be made clear that both sides of this argument are for civil rights and for giving enforcement powers to the eeoc. what the senator from colorado speaks for and what i support is that this should be a twostep process. those of us who believe in civil rights feel that a twostep process guarantees those rights far more than a onestep process. to my good friend the senator from new york i can only say this: that just as i am against onestep processes in deciding whether we are going to make military commitments. so i am against onestep processes as to civil rights decisions. let us make mistake about it. the due process of law concept is better served through the proposition of the senator from colorado than through what is being proposed in the bill.
. last week i testified before the subcommittee on constitutional rights with respect to s. 318. the news media source protection act. along with the cosponsors of that bill. senator bible. senator brock. senator brooke. senator can. senator case. senator cook. senator fannin. senator javits. senator moss. senator pell. senator taft. and senator young. i am concerned that the issues s. 318 addresses are treated responsibly. for that reason. i attempted to do more. in my testimony. than simply reiterate or republicize the drama of newsmen struggling to protect their news sources from the government. quite simply. the rhetoric already abounds. i am more than willing to leave it to otherswho have testified or who will testifyto dramatize the impact of this struggle. instead. i indicated in my testimony that i wished to serve the committee in its legislative task. by setting forth informative testimony on the specific legislative problems the congress  faces. the complicated responsibility we are undertaking. will. in the end wellinformed consideration of fundamental legal questions. i felt a direct responsibility. therefore. to assist in that most serious and difficult task.
i would like to speak for 1 minute. if i might. . i ask that once and for all we act to bring the awesome investigative powers of the federal government out into the open. and that the rights of the individual be preserved even as we pursue the legitimate functions of government. i do hope that the distinguished senator from new mexico and the distinguished seantor from oklahoma will do their best in the conference to carry this amendment. it is a small amendment. but i think it is emously important in keeping government in proper perspective with the rights of privacy of the average citizen.
again. in response to the distinguished senator from west virginia. on almost all matters i would say we can arrive at agreements here. because they are matters that affects us and the legislation we pass upon. the difficulty i find is in agreeing away the rights of the people of new hampshire. that is a little different. that is my difficulty. i feel quite strongly about the point that this is  something with which we should be dealing. it is something that should be dealt with by the constituency itself. so it is  a question of how much time i want. i am frank to admit to the senatori am  portraying the picture other than thisthat i want to wait and see what action is taken by the new hampshire state legislature. and i am sure they are being as partisan up there as indeed the assistant majority leader has indicated we are being down here. in any event. itcertainly would form a part of the final picture. which picture can only be determined by the people themselves. that is my difficulty with the problem. mally. i would be more than delighted to agree with the assistant majority leader. there would be difficulty at all. but there is this added element which makes it somewhat separate and distinct from the usual things we negotiate on the floor of the senate.
. i would ask the question. either of the distinguished senator from rhode island or the distinguished senator from nevada. since we have been doing most of the talking on this side of the floor. by what reason do they arrive at the conclusion that louis wyman should  be seated pending investigation by the committee. by what reason. i would like the answer to that. as to why the committee determines he should  be seated. one takes away any rights from the senate or any rights from the rules committee. but what is there in this case that makes them arrive at the conclusion that he can be seated without prejudice pending the investigation. several senators addressed the chair.
i appreciate the comments of the distinguished senator from idaho. i would like to point outand we might discuss this for a momentif i am  mistaken the objectionthis item comes to us on a 44 vote. i believe. of the committee on rules. i believe those who objected to the recount did so. because they felt that there were certain legal impediments to mr. wymans protests back in new hampshire. in other words. that he had  made timely protest. well. by the resolving clause which we passed the other day. in conjunction with the majority of the rules committee. we did away with any such objection. it was specifically stated on the recordand i will read the new resolve: resolved. that the senate. applying the law of the state of new hampshire. including statutory law. common law. and new hampshire case law. as of january 6. 1975. without prejudice to consideration of all the protests made by either party at any stage of the proceedings. shall vote separately on each of the following issues . . . so we. by our action. removed that particular criticism. what i am saying is what was valid in the committeeand there i do  even think it was valid because of the agreement to the hatfield amendment where they would hear all the protestsbut still assuming there would be disagreement on that point. we cleared it up on the floor of the senate where it was clearly agreed. regardless of what the law said. any protests made either in new hampshire or in the committee. anything up to this pointand even there it was a question as to whether a protest could  be raised right here on the floorwas ok. so the objection that was registered in the committee as to this item is longer valid. that being the case. what are we arguing about. there was a point of argument in the committee. it is longer a point of argument on the senate floor. i would hopeas a matter of fact. i would be glad to withdraw my amendment if we could just go ahead and get agreement on section (1) and let them go and do their counting. as a matter of fact. mr. wymans rights are  greater by one iota as to the same right to recount as those of dr. durkin on these particular precincts or those which he had protested at any stage in the proceedings. so i just do  k how you can be any more logical or fair. i am perfectly willing. if that is  satisfactory. if mr. durkin does  want to go through that exercise. then to let us vote on the resolution in light of what we did the other day. which was to the effect that we  allow a technicality to default any protest but just say. "take the protest and go ahead and decide it."
. let me briefly explain what this amendment would do. it would. in effect. inject mr. durkin into issue  1. it gives to mr. durkin rights which he does  have under section (1). the purpose of the amendment is to have a recount.  only of those precincts requested by mr. wyman. but also those that have been protested by mr. durkin since the beginning of the proceeding.
up to this minute it usually has been the individual declared the winner by the particular constituency from which he comes. subject to the appeal of the loseror. in other words. to be seated without prejudice to tho rights of the loser. but some unusual tactics has been followed here. whereby the draw situation that has been created has been done so under the powers of the senateagain. a very unfair resolution of the problem.
. i propose to my colleagues that there shall be rest from confrontation. until we have constructed a system of american education that respects the constitutional rights of all our nations people. the amendment that we are proposing today is intended to be a first step to the goal of peace with ourselves. and with each other.
i thank my friend and colleague from the bottom of my heart. the crux of this issue is accountability of government to the peopleconstitutional accountability. in the past. members of this body have chosen  to k because there were things which gentlemen ought  to k. well. it is our responsibility to assure that those things which gentlemen ought  to k. never reoccur. we can longer pass off illegal activities as the work of the white house. because we have learned the hard way that even the white house must be controlled. that was precisely what was intended by our forefathers when 200 years ago when they established a system of checks and balances to govern this nation. it is  a system of checks and balances which excluded the cia. the fbi. the irs. and the various intelligencelaw enforcement agencies. but a system of accountability for all the government. for all the people. it is  a system which was intended to have senators. presidents. or corporate executives at one level and everybody else at aher. it is for all the people. through the past failure of congress to demand to k about the activities of intelligence agenciesthe people. through the fault of their elected representatives lost a constitutional powerto control the excesses of the executive. plainly and simply. the elected representatives abbrogated their constitutional responsibility. and.  has a job to conform the agencies to the constitution. then the people of this country have a job. and it is specifically to get the best men and women to serve. there will be greater ethics or excellence on the floor of the senate or in the white house. or anywhere in our government. than in the voting booths of this country. so the fingerpointing can only stop from us on the hill. but it can also stop from the american people until they themselves become active participants in this constitutional democracy. today we are here to regain that authority and start exercising it. when we vote in a few days. we will see whether a majority of members of this body are willing to assume the responsibilities bestowed upon them by their constituents. the senate must decide if the preservation of the status quo is more important than the resurrection of constitutional accountability. let me state clearly. there is reason for anybody in this country to have to choose between effective law enforcement and effective intelligence and constitutionality. one can go along with the other. i am particularly appalled by those who would make the american people choose. and say. "you have to choose one or the other."  you can have both. there is  one man on the government operations committee or in any other committee which discussed this matter on which i have been privileged to sit who does  believe in having an effective cia and an effective fbi. they are clearly necessary to the security of the nation. but there is reason why. in the achieving of that effectiveness. the constitution has to be left in the dust. way. sure. it is going to have to change from the old system. from the old practices. democracy. which we say is exercised by 100 senators. is going to have to be exercised by 10 senators.  2. 3. or 4. democracy and the constitution. which we talk about as belonging to all americans. are going to have to belong to all americans.  just a few. concerning the scare tactic and the scare talk that if we have accountability. if we have oversight. we will lose our intelligence or law enforcement effectiveness. how effective is it to be investigating americans rather than conveying intelligence about our enemies abroad. how effective is it to have these agencies involved in politics. on the domestic side. rather than intelligence gathering. i remember that one very small instance of military intelligence in west berlin which arose during the watergate hearings where military intelligence was breaking into the rooms of american citizens in west berlin and coming out with autographed pictures of george mcgovernthat was what we were paying for as taxpayersrather than giving us the intelligence which obviously we needed to k: what the russians were doing on the other side of the wall. that is what i want to k. i do  want to k what somebody elses political beliefs are or for whom they are going to vote. have fear as far as this country is concerned should this oversight and accountability come into being. then we are going to have them do the job which is intended. which is intelligence gathering. which is law enforcement. rather than a political hatchet job willynilly across the world and in this country. we have before us a compromise which the members of the rules committee. the government operations committee. and the church committee labored diligently to provide this body. this compromise sets up the framework for effective oversight by giving a new committee strong authority and the muscle to back up its actions. by requiring rotating membership. we will avoid making the new committee a handmaiden of the agencies it is supposed to oversee. in essence the compromise substitute offers the senate an opportunity for meaningful oversightoversight with authority and constancy. and most importantly. it offers to the united states of america a return to its constitution. i received a ification the other day from some organization that felt that patriotism could best be served by having senators resign the declaration of independence. how insulting. i think the time has come for every senator to relive the declaration of independence. the bill of rights. and the constitution. never mind the business of signing. never mind the business of buying. but to live it. to live it legislatively here. for all americans to live it in their lives out there on the streets. when it comes to these great concepts of equality for all americans. due process for all americans. privacy for all americans. freedom of speech and assembly and dissent for all americans. what we do on this senate floor here in the next several days will  cost the taxpayers a nickel and it will give the greatest possible value to the celebration of our bicentennial
let me finish my comments that is the issue. the only concern with religious belief. the only concern with religious belief that should be espoused by any senator on this floor. is the guarantee that anyones beliefanyones religious beliefcan be a matter of conscience. can be a matter of practice. without interference in any measure by the state. that is our concern. that is our concern.  to legislate.  to legislate. in any sense. religious belief. this country was founded on that principle. indeed many of those who object the most to abortions are members of religious miitiesmiities. it is that they can practice their faith in total freedom that i stand here and refuse to participate in legislating a portion of their beliefs. maybe it is that the law of the land will change in the sense of aher decision emanating from the judicial processes of our states and federal government. but that is  the case . as to the matter. which is our proper concern. i find it tragic that full realization of ones constitutional rights in this country depends on his or her ecoic status. before i sit down. does the senator from idaho want the floor.
i thank the distinguished senator from west virginia. i would suggest to my colleagues that all that has been set forth by the distinguished senator from west virginia could be accomplished by a simple upordown vote on the conference report. what i do  want to do here tonight is to get into a leadership contest. if you will. and put it on a partisan basis. i suggest to you that indeed the overriding issue right  is the challenge to the u.s. senate on a variety of issues as encompassed in the action by the house. the dimculty with voting individually on those issues is that it colors. if you will. your vote on the conference report. i think right  e of us can count the votes on abortion or whether we want hud or what have you and we are probably all in the same fog as to where the votes are. and that makes it fair for all of us. i would just go ahead and suggest that we vote up or down on the conference report and take everything with it. regardless of anybodys point of view on abortion or any of the rest of these issues. up or down as being the improper way to handle some very serious subjects. abortion being one of them. but. as i say. i do  k where the votes are right . and neither does any one of us.  on hud insofar as livable cities. and the galileo project. and so forth. i forget what else we have here. one of the amendments that the distinguished senator from virginia mentioned. it is all encompassed in there. but the minute any one of us gets our way on a particular amendment. then that is going to pretty much dictate our vote on the overall conference report. so let us go ahead and face it squarely from the beginning. and vote up or down on the conference report. and either all get our wishes or e. then we will be able to say that the negotiation process was conducted in a responsible way by the senate and the legislative process was conducted in a responsible way by the senate. and the senate position is  just going to go out the window because the other side decides to take off on a vacation. i would suggest. . that we go to an upordown vote on the conference report. the yeas and nays having been ordered. i do  mean to foreclose any discussion. but i would suggest that that be the next order of business.
reserving the right to object. i think something should be pointed out at this juncture. concerning all the alternatives before us. and concerning the suggestion made by the senator from idaho. we will have the opportunity to do in a formal way exactly what the senator from idaho was discussing. to this extent: should the conference report pass. when the item in disagreement comes up. which is the abortion language. i will then move an amendment to that striking out a pay raise of any nature whatsoever for all members of congress. so senators will have that opportunity. to single out that item. i doubt that is going to help the situation. we will still be in disagreement on that item with the house of representatives. so please understand that there is easy way out of this. should the conference report pass. we will be again back on the pay raise item as an amendment to the item in disagreement.
. in response to the senator from washington. it is my understanding that my motion was to concur with the house amendment with an amendment. therefore. both the magnuson abortion language and the elimination of the pay raise will go back to the house of representatives and then it is a simple matter for the house of representatives. if they want federal employees to get their pay all they have to do is vote on their pay raise.
. i thank the distinguished senator from vermont. i compliment both he and the distinguished senator from maryland on bringing forth this compromise effort as it pertains to appropriations for the district of columbia. my remarks are neither directed toward the substance of the various appropriations  toward the policy changes that accompany them. rather. i would like to address my comments to the abortion language contained in the house amendment on the abortion language. this language in effect. is a replay of the compromise abortion language or. for example. the magnuson compromise language. that was contained in the continuing appropriations bill. house joint resolution 412. i realize that endorsement of this language was a difficult decision for the senator from vermont and the senator from maryland.  wanting to hold up the government of the district of columbia they endorsed it. just as indeed we have previously been held up on the consideration of the important affairs of this country by the debate over abortion. but i figure this might be the ideal time to start firing the first can in opposition to the hyde language by opposing this compromise language. which takes us one step closer to hyde. it is past time to start expressing some very blunt opinions on the matter of abortion and the language that is being attached to every bill that comes through the senate and the house. first. let me call it. the issue of abortion is the greatest issue in the country today. although it is  a issue in the senate and in the house. where a few senators and congressmen. obviously with rabbit earsthat is. somewhat sensitive ears--listen to the loud voices of an extremely vocal miity. as far as the american people are concerned. would they assign to this issue the importance that is assigned to it by virtue of what we in congress do. they certainly would . were we to go to take a poll on the streets of america. we would  find. abortion funding among the first 20 isoctober 292. 1979 sues of concern to the american people. yet time and again we in congress are supposed to halt the entire process of government in order to get some rather strong individual views into the law. this brings me to my second point. my job as a u.s. senator is  to take up on the floor of the senate what somebody is  successful in achieving in the church pulpit on sunday. . my friends who are such sticklers on the separation between church and state as well as on the matter of a literal reading of the constitution. i ask you: what. in fact. have we been doing the past couple of years. we have. in effect. translated some peoples religious beliefs into the law of the land. have we . if. indeed. you and the people of america do  want abortion. then go ahead and make it a crime. make it illegal. period. but ody wants to do that. ody wants that to come to the floor to debate what is indeed the issue.
. i would like to respond specifically to the points raised by the distinguished senator from th carolina. the senator from th carolina keeps on saying. "i do  believe." in that phrase. he is probably joined by millions of americansi do  believe. he used the terms "persuasion" and "i am  of the persuasion that." in that. he is probably joined by millions of americans. he refers to the ecumenical meeting he had when he received his award. between he. a baptist. and others. who are catholic. the point i make here today is that it is  a matter of what ones persuasion is. it is  a matter of what one believes. it makes difference whether one is a baptist. a catholic. or an episcopalian. it is only a matter of what is legal. abortion is legal. that is  a matter of belief or persuasion. we can go running around the united states declaring that we are going to debate that which is right or wrong. from a religious point of view. we must consider that which is legal. and has been so ackledged on numerous occasions by the supreme court. this is what differentiates our society and our political system from others. the senator from th carolina indicates that he would like to have this left as a matter of referendum. i would be delighted. if we can end all abortion amendments on the floor of the senate. let us have a constitutional amendment. we have constitutional amendments in all sorts of matters: womens rights. busing. limitations on the expenditures of government. i would be totally satisfied to cut this debate off and leave this matter for decision by all the states. if anybody wants to raise a constitutional amendment on this issue. but that will  be done. because it would  succeed. the senator from th carolina made the statement that he assumed that this senator has been referring to the catholic faith. that is an incorrect assumption. i have made my statement as to what i believe in. it is the constitutional principles of this country. if there are those who are opposed to these prinples well. if the shoe fits. wear it. as i indicated. aside from the tenets of my own faith. which happens to be episcopalian. i have idea what the tenets of other peoples faiths are. as i said. i do  care. except that i hope they will have the opportunity to practice their religions in total freedom. as i said before. my only job. and our job here. as far as religion is concerned is to see to it that all americans are free to practice the religion of their choice. our job is  to act so that we go back to the situation which caused the founding of this nation. when indeed there were states religions and there was state oppression of those religions with which a majority disagreed. the senator from th carolina made the statement that i am emotionally involved.  i am . i have a downs child. this fact makes difference as to what i do on the floor of the senate. any more than does the fact that i personally do  believe in abortion. these are matters of my personal religious belief. and they have bearing  right to be used as a basis for my decisions on this floor. what is right and wrong has been determined already by the supreme court. and that is the supreme law of the land. the law is  a matter of belief or persuasion. or of any one of us going out and doing our anarchistic thing on this subject. rather. our job is to see to it that the policies of the land conform with the law of the land. if we are going to change the policy. let us do so for all. but we should . in our religious fervor. single out one religious tenet and try to incorporate into the laws of this nation the religion of any faith in the nation.
. limiting funds for abortions has the same result as limiting the actual right to an abortion insofar as indigent women are concerned. it is unrealistic to believe that an indigent woman can make a valid choice if she ks she will be deprived of the means to effectuate her choice. what we are doing here is imposing a governmentally ordained morality on an indigent woman. she ks she will  receive funds for an abortioneven if she is facing "severe and longlasting physical health damage." yet. if she chooses to follow the stateencouraged morality and bear her children. she will be reimbursed  only for her predelivery and delivery expenses but also for her childrens postnatal costs. as well as receiving an increase in her welfare stipend. what was a temporary solution concerning language relating to federal funding of abortion in the last continuing resolution has  become in this bill the established platform for further retreat even closer to pure hyde language. with the adoption of this conference report. this language will  be longer a temporary resolution for the closing minutes of a congressional session. rather. it serves as the new takeoff point with the end objective being pure hyde language. clearly. both the senate and the house are out of step with the american people. i had occasion to e just the other day a new testing of american sentiment on the issue. a new york times/ cbs news poll showed that 64 percent of the roman catholics and 69 percent of the protestants surveyed felt that the "right of a woman to have an abortion should be left entirely to the woman and her doctor." so. in effect. it is a loudmouth miity that has managed to go ahead and do a number on the senate and on the house. but that does  bother me as much as the constitutional aspects of what we are dealing with here. clearly. there has been an introduction of religion into the deliberations of this matter by both this and the other chamber. that causes me considerable concern. last. i would hope something can be devised to remove this issue from the appropriation process. that process has suffered greatly because of this issue being introduced into the deliberations of the appropriations process. both in the house and in the senate. the fact is that this question is taking our eye off the ball when it comes to many issues. it has been used by the house on several occasions as the reason for bringing the federal government to a dead halt. therefore. we have had to accede to them. i would suggest. regardless which point of view there is on the abortion issue. that it is best handled by the authorizing committees. go ahead and devise legislation that makes abortion illegal and consider it on the floors of the chambers of congress. that is fine. debate that. go ahead and so modify the medicaremedicaid policies. that is fine. it would be an open debate. present a constitutional amendment banning abortions. that is all right. of course. e of these things are being done because those advocating outlawing abortions would go down in flames. whether it be on a constitutional amendment. or when these issues are considered directly either in the house or senate. so. we continue to come at it in a surreptitious way which. as i say. clearly affects the other functionings of government. and it comes at the issue unconstitutionally. by the side door. i will  attempt to take up the time of my colleagues this evening and have an extended debate on this issue. there is point. apparently. it would only serve to inconvenience the individual lifestyles of myself and my colleagues. to me. the points are too important to be discussed at the tail end of any session. but i hope come the first of the year that those who have advocated their position by the side door would do so by the front door. let us have done with it. rather than to go ahead and screw up the appropriation process.
i thank the distinguished senator from texas. in response to the question that the senator posed. 1 day of hearings has been held and 5 days of hearings are still scheduled. the senator from georgia asked. as i understand itand the senator from georgia can speak for himselfthat this amendment  be brought up at this time. so it could go through the entire range of hearings. and. indeed. to throw away these guarantees on a germane amendment at the last minute. on 1 days worth of hearings. regardless of which side of the issue you are on does  make sense. for heavens sakes. the individual constitutional rights of americans are far more important than the difficulties of law enforcement.
that is one of my criticisms of what we are being asked. in haste. to act upon. i will tell you what i am  going to do in any manner. shape. or form: frustrate the will of this body on substance. that does  mean substance as some one person wants it. i mean. everybody can put their arguments out there and their proposals out there and let us vote up or down on it. certainly. i am  proposing any procedural blocks here at all. as i indicated to the majority leader in my discussions with himi was trying to protect rights on this side as the miity. and he wanted to make sure substance would get voted upon. . it seems to me that we have a matter of substance before us. i see reason in the world why we should  get to vote on it or. if the distinguished senator from michigan wants to amend it. amend it and vote on that. but what i think is terribly important is that it is clearly understood by those in the chamber. those outside. and those in the media that there is procedural fight going on here. that we are interested in producing the best possible piece of legislation.  that dictated by the administration.  that dictated by chrysler. or maybe legislation at all. but at least let us all go at this thing. i have interposed absolutely objections to anything being raised or anything being voted on. tell me. does the senator from indiana
. it is clear that under present commercial reporting practices an acceptable level of accuracy is commercial credit reports is  assured. the amendment i intend to offer will protect the interests of  only small businesses. but all businesses. it will insure that the same basic legal rights enjoyed by consumers are enjoyed by businesses and that commercial reporting agencies exercise their responsibilities with fairness. accuracy. and respect for the business right to privacy. i urge my colleagues to support this measure.*
what is the value of a judgment without a remedy. clearly. it totally inhibits the government of the united states from pursuing the rights of its citizens. a judgment without remedy is judgment. it is worthless.
the senator is absolutely correct. . you k what the argument is going to be. and see if this does  have a familiar ring to it from something which was decided just a few weeks ago on the floor. "well. private individuals can bring the case. private groups can bring the case." it does  make any difference whether they can afford to have a lawyer or  because the lawyer is longer around because there is legal services. private individuals. private groups. it has a strange ring to it. abortion is legal. abortion is legal. of course the only people that can afford it are the rich. but you leave it legal. it all has a pattern to it. does it . what you effectively do is to strip americans of their constitutional and legal rights through the funding process. do you want to ask some of these gentlemen that propose to go this route. to say to them. "all right. lets eliminate busing and all the various remedies that are so objectionable and disagreeable. lets go the route of voting the moneythe moneyto make sure that there is equality of educational opportunity. one has to be in the mood of the congress and the administration. how about appropriating $50 billion to do that and imposing the appropriate taes to pay for it." i do  think anybody is going to vote that either. that is  popular. that is  popular. ody wants to vote $50 billion in spending. ody wants to vote taxes. ody wants to reorder peoples lifestyles. again. i repeat. the catch up of 200 years of discrimination is disagreeable and there is agreeable way to handle it. but. for gods sake. do  give away the constitution in the bargain. because eventually that will be one of the only things that is left to each one of us when it is our ox that is being gored.
on both sides. and that we will  have someone in there representing all americans. all americans. of views both pro and con. the senator is absolutely correct in his observations. but i also have to raise the question as to why matters of the constitution. why matters of the constitution. either adherence to or violation of. are or should be the responsibility of private citizens. what is the government for if it can defend the very basis of its existence as a government. we have been through this whole exercise in the abortion argument. "abortion is legal. abortion is legal. but we will so construct it that. practically speaking. it is only available to the wealthy." what kind of a policy is that. i understand the law. but what kind of a policy is that. what kind of a policy is it that says we have a constitution but it is only there for use by those who can afford to come into court to use it on their behalf or in defense of aher person. what kind of a policy is that. believe me. these machinations on the floor that relate to abortion and relate to busing and probably school prayer and the rest. they are going to put us into a constitutional gordian k that ody is going to be able to cut. there is logic to what is being done. there is basis in law to what is being done. it is illogic that is being presented as being eligible to become the law of this country.
and. quite frankly. as long as that legislation sits out there i am going to characterize the legislation in every way that i possibly can as being unconstitutional. as being that which deprives people of their rights under the bill of rights. if the senator does  like the characterization of the legislation there is hing i can do about that.
well. the chair is absolutely correct. i do  want to lose the floor. i just want to express my affection for the senator from th caroline. that is all. in any event. in response to my good friend from marylandmy good friend. the senator from maryland is the one who got me into all of this troublei am glad to go ahead and say to him that i think there are serious constitutional defects to what it is that is being proposed here. indeed. these defects could strip each one of us of our rights under the constitution. the answer is. yes. in any given set of circumstances we could lose our rights as to freedom of speech. freedom of religion. privacy. or what have you. and there would be recourse for us in the sense that either the courts were stripped of their jurisdiction or the jus.. tice department of its abilities to pursue the action against the act complained of.
let me give a personal example out here on the floor which illustrates the earlier point made by the senator from oregon. and i will carry it into the question he just asked. it has to do with the abortion debate. the senator will correct me if i am wrong. his legislative position consistently has been along with that of the senator from th carolina on the issue.
the senator is absolutely correct. the administration has already made the views clear. i have doubt there has been any lessening of fervor in support of civil rights cases. that is their business. they quite frankly can do this without the legislative branch of government making a massive incursion on the rights of the executive branch. that. as the senator will recall. was the basis of president carters threatened veto and he said. "i want to pass this office on." and this was after. i might add. he was defeated. he said "i want to pass this office on with the same powers as the office that i received." . what president reagan will do here if this gets into law is to have something a little bit less of an executive branch than was given to him.
i appreciate the distnguished senator from massachusetts questions. i k as this session of the senate progresses there will be the senators times on the floor protecting the constitutional rights in many other forms. and believe me this is going to be one dandy session for those of us who stand there on the side of the constitution. there are going to be more runs against it than we would like to see.
. i am  here this morning to go through all the reasons that were quite carefully and extensively enumerated yesterday as to why i think the weicker amendment shldtld be passed. but it certainly would be a shock. i think. to anyone outside this chamber to be confronted with the fact that the senate of the united states did  reaffirm the constitutional duties of the department of justice and the courts of the united states. aside from the constitutional issue. the civil rights issue is of course. emously important. i have tried during the course of this debate to educate my colleagues and those in the public to the fact that civil rights is  just a matter of race.  just a matter of black or white. rather civil rights is a matter that pertains to every one. it usually comes into play on behalf of the most disadvantaged elements of our society. which means that it will be used in our time. in our generation by women. by the elderly. by the disabled and retarded. by those of different ethnic and racial background who are in a miity. be that american indians or hispanics. these are the more immediate problems for this generation in this time. but civil rights is  something that belongs to a few persons marching down the street in the advocacy of their self interests. the civil rights that we talk about are constitutional rights that. belong to every one of us. that is the other point that i have tried to make during the debate. so there we have it to the extent of trying to preserve the constitution in terms of the constitutional structure of government. separation of powers. and preserve the constitutional rights of each of us. which rights have meaning in the absence of remedy. it does good to any person aggrieved if the wrong established is impossible of correction. many will complain that the remedies have either been too vigorous or too sweeping. but who are we to judge in retrospect as to how sweeping was the illegality. those matters were decided by other of our fellow citizens serving as jurors and judges in other times. certainly any one of us as a matter of historical perspective would agree that race discrimination was broad. it was oppressive. it was all consuming. it was devastating. and few will argue as a matter of present perspective that in different ways that discrimination still goes on. we become free as a nation when all are free. we become strong as a nation when the weakest among us has full access to this constitution. it is to those matters that i have tried to address myself. it is to that which the amendment addresses itself. if this body wants to go on record as opposing the remedy of busing. so be it. at the same time. this body can also reaffirm its faith. its belief. its commitment to the constitution of the united states by voting for my resolution. the distinguished senator from pennsylvania is on the floor and has indicated a desire to address some remarks on this matter
because what has happened is that. using this bill as a vehicle. and without any hearings on the matter. without any committee deliberation. without any subcommittee deliberation. wve just tack on a few words effecting an attempted. emous constitutional change. let nie say this. that it is very easy for me to say. just as the senator alluded to. let us let the courts handle this hot potato. and let the president handle this hot potato. the senator ks what happens. the courts handle it. and then senators like the senator from th carolina do  like what the courts say and accuse the courts of legislating. too often. over the past several decades people have passed the buck right out of this chamber and right out of the white house into the supreme court. i am  going to do that. i am  going to do that. as far as i am concerned. whether it is the independence of the judiciary as it relates to effective remedies against discrimination. or whether it relates to the rights of women in the sense of abortions. or whether it is the matter of the first amendment nnd freedom of religion. the senator from thl carolina can send one signal. i am going to send aher. i admire him. let me say.thls to the senator. there is question~ing where lie stands on these issues. there is questioning where i stand on these issues. the senator from th carolina is  passing the buck.
i wish to say to my distinguished friends from tennessee and louisiana that i would have hoped this would never have been on the senate floor in the first instance. but it is. if i had to characterize the amendment. first. the amendment of the senator from th carolina. which started all of this. and then the amendment of the senator from louislana. and the amendment of the senator from washington. i could do it very briefly: gross. grosser. grossest. i hope the senate will reject the amendment of the distinguished senator from washington. any comments of unconstitutionality that attach to the amendments of the senator from louisiana and the senator from th carolina certainly apply to this amendment. this is  a numbers game. it is  a question of how many minutes or how many miles. that is  why i am up on my feet and have been up on my feet for months . it is  a matter of whether we are talking about schoolchildren. whether we are talking about discrimination in the schools. what is the slick term here used by my colleague from washington. "racially neutral." this is  the issue. it is  how many minutes.  how many miles. the great issue before this body. does  even have to do with the matter of discrimination and busing or pupil assignment. it has to do with the constitution of the united states. tomorrow maybe the unpopular segment of our society might be senators. they might be more unpopular. and they mightbe the target of the legislative branch trying to tell the courts which rights s 1042 of senators can be protected and which rights can. baucus maybe next year it will be the elder- boren ly. maybe after that the retarded. boschwitz 0bradley maybe businessmen. how about presi- bumpers dents of oil companies. that is the burdick issue. cohen so really the senator from washing- do ton. with all due respect. adds hing durenberger to this argument except perhaps to fog it up a little bit more in the sense of what is at issue here on the floor of chafec the senate. for that reason i oppose couya his amendment. . madam president. i raise the so the point of order that the gorton amend- tamed as ment is germane. mr. we
i say again that there they carefully crafted a way to give additional rightsadditional rights. what we can do is to restrict the rights guaranteed by the constitution. we always try to expand rights legislatively. but to eliminate one of the branches of government. i say that moves into the realmif it is going to be doneof a constitutional amendment. we can legislatively reduce the rights of our fellow americans. that. in essence. is what the senator from th carolina is trying to do.
. the senate has before it s. 366. which would provide settlement of certain claims of the mashantucket pequot tribe of connecticut. and which would establish federal recognition of the tribe. it is great pleasure that i rise in support of this legislation. essentially. the bill guarantees that the rights of miities in the case of the mashantucket pequot tribe are equally protected under our laws. this bill is motivated by the wish to provide a fair settlement to all involved parties and i believe that it accomplishes that aim. s. 366 has the support of the connecticut congressional delegation. the connecticut state government. the mashantucket pequot tribe. and affected property owners. connecticut is proud of this bill which represents the "state of the art" in indian land claims settlement legislation. we believe that it could set a precedent for connecticut in future cases of this nature. i urge my colleagues to support s. 366.e
. the senate can take dride in the steps it has taken to preserve and enhance necessary services for and rights of disabled people. that justifiable pride. however. must  obscure the work that yet remains before us if we are to fulfill the promise of equ..l opportunity for americans disabled citizens. the civil rights commission report provides a most valuable quide to where the senate might direct its attention in this regard. i urge my colleagues to give careful attention to the serious social problem of discrimination against handicapped persons as we approach next years oversight hearings.*
 because as the senator realizes when i started off in this debate in good faith with the majority leader. it was with the understanding that there would  be any unseemly cutoff of debate  would there be a filibuster. and indeed there is  going to be any filibuster. but i do reserve myself all the options available to best is portray by views on this critical issue and to protect all of my rights on the floor and avoid being blind sided.
you speak for the majority on this issue. the majority wants the equal rights amendment in the country. the majority is satisfied with the abortion laws that are written in this country. do you want to go along with the majority. on those issues. you have deeplyheld feelings. but you do  use the argument as to the majority in these instances. the majority means hing. it is what we develop through our constitutional system. that is what is important.
. i would like to introduce today a bill that would create connecticuts first national wildlife refuge. the bill has the unanimous support of the connecticut congressional delegation. and has been fully endorsed by the state gover. william oneill. it is a companion bill to h.r. 5464. and targets for protection four areas totaling 144.5 acres in connecticut and long island sound: milford point. and chimon. sheffield. and faulkners islands. these areas provide critical breeding habitats for several species of coastal birds rare to connecticut. chimon island contains critical habitats for.herons and other colonies of wading birds. two species of threatened terns have significant breeding colonies on faulkners island and milford point. faulkners island. incidentally. is one of only four breeding sites for the roseate tern in its thern th american range. milford point is a critical breeding area for the piping plover. which is a candidate for listing as a federally threatened species. sheffield island offers aher potential nesting site for herons. the importance of designating these lands as a wildlife refuge can be overemphasized. the high rate of commercial activity in connecticut has led to a paucity of undisturbed island real estate. this increased development in connecticuts coastal zone areas has had tremendous impacts on the coastal ecosystem. the unique qualities of the islands and the diversity of bird life they support must be preserved. the impact of any development would have significant and irreversible effects on their wildlife populations. the lands under consideration in this bill are among the best examples of connecticuts natural heritage. i urge the appropriate committees and the senate to act quickly on the passage of this bill. as the areas are experiencing developmental pressure. in addition. the price for chimon island may double if it is  acquired by september of this year. we must act  to preserve these biologically vital coastal lands.e
. the legislation i am introducing today is a specific response to the courts opinion in smith against robinson. my amendments to public law 94142 are for the limited purpose of clarifying what i believe to be and has always been the intent of congress. that attorneys fees be available to parents. guardians. or other representatives of handicapped children who prevail in an action to enforce their childs right to education. the proposed amendment is  in any way unique. at present. there are at least 90 separate attorneys fees provisions to promote enforcement of over 90 different federal laws. the amendment carefully follows the language of sections 505(b) and 1983. this amendment should correct any doubts the court may have had and make clear congress intent to afford full protection for the educational rights of handicapped children. my second amendment makes clear that congress with the passage of public law 94142 did  intend to limit or reduce the rights. procedures. and remedies available to handicapped children under the u.s. constitution. title v of the rehabilitation act. and other federal statutes. despite the conjecture of the court. i do  believe that in enacting public law 94142 it was ever the intention of congress to exclude from the broad coverage of the constitution and our civil rights statutes. the claims of handicapped children seeking education. justices brennan. marshall. and stevens in their dissenting opinion stated: congress will  have to take the time to revisit the matter. and until it does. the handicapped children of this country whose difficulties are compounded by discrimination and by other deprivations of constitutional rights will have to pay the costs. itis at best ironic that the court has managed to impose this burden on handicapped children in the course of interpreting a statute wholly intended to promote the educational rights of those children. i urge my colleagues to support this legislation which simply clarifies the intent of congress to protect the educational rights of handicapped children.e by mr. dole (for himself. mr.
. the senate has before it s. 366. which would provide settlement of certain claims of the mashantucket pequot tribe of connecticut. and which would establish federal recognition of the tribe. it is great pleasure that i rise in support of this legislation. essentially. the bill guarantees that the rights of miities in the case of the mashantucket pequot tribe are equally protected under our laws. this bill is motivated by the wish to provide a fair settlement to all involved parties and i believe that it accomplishes that aim. s. 366 has the support of the connecticut congressional delegation. the connecticut state government. the mashantucket pequot tribe. and affected property owners. connecticut is proud of this bill which represents the "state of the art" in indian land claims settlement legislation. we believe that it could set a precedent for connecticut in future cases of this nature. i urge my colleagues to support s. 366.e
. the senate can take dride in the steps it has taken to preserve and enhance necessary services for and rights of disabled people. that justifiable pride. however. must  obscure the work that yet remains before us if we are to fulfill the promise of equ..l opportunity for americans disabled citizens. the civil rights commission report provides a most valuable quide to where the senate might direct its attention in this regard. i urge my colleagues to give careful attention to the serious social problem of discrimination against handicapped persons as we approach next years oversight hearings.*
 because as the senator realizes when i started off in this debate in good faith with the majority leader. it was with the understanding that there would  be any unseemly cutoff of debate  would there be a filibuster. and indeed there is  going to be any filibuster. but i do reserve myself all the options available to best is portray by views on this critical issue and to protect all of my rights on the floor and avoid being blind sided.
you speak for the majority on this issue. the majority wants the equal rights amendment in the country. the majority is satisfied with the abortion laws that are written in this country. do you want to go along with the majority. on those issues. you have deeplyheld feelings. but you do  use the argument as to the majority in these instances. the majority means hing. it is what we develop through our constitutional system. that is what is important.
. i would like to introduce today a bill that would create connecticuts first national wildlife refuge. the bill has the unanimous support of the connecticut congressional delegation. and has been fully endorsed by the state gover. william oneill. it is a companion bill to h.r. 5464. and targets for protection four areas totaling 144.5 acres in connecticut and long island sound: milford point. and chimon. sheffield. and faulkners islands. these areas provide critical breeding habitats for several species of coastal birds rare to connecticut. chimon island contains critical habitats for.herons and other colonies of wading birds. two species of threatened terns have significant breeding colonies on faulkners island and milford point. faulkners island. incidentally. is one of only four breeding sites for the roseate tern in its thern th american range. milford point is a critical breeding area for the piping plover. which is a candidate for listing as a federally threatened species. sheffield island offers aher potential nesting site for herons. the importance of designating these lands as a wildlife refuge can be overemphasized. the high rate of commercial activity in connecticut has led to a paucity of undisturbed island real estate. this increased development in connecticuts coastal zone areas has had tremendous impacts on the coastal ecosystem. the unique qualities of the islands and the diversity of bird life they support must be preserved. the impact of any development would have significant and irreversible effects on their wildlife populations. the lands under consideration in this bill are among the best examples of connecticuts natural heritage. i urge the appropriate committees and the senate to act quickly on the passage of this bill. as the areas are experiencing developmental pressure. in addition. the price for chimon island may double if it is  acquired by september of this year. we must act  to preserve these biologically vital coastal lands.e
. the legislation i am introducing today is a specific response to the courts opinion in smith against robinson. my amendments to public law 94142 are for the limited purpose of clarifying what i believe to be and has always been the intent of congress. that attorneys fees be available to parents. guardians. or other representatives of handicapped children who prevail in an action to enforce their childs right to education. the proposed amendment is  in any way unique. at present. there are at least 90 separate attorneys fees provisions to promote enforcement of over 90 different federal laws. the amendment carefully follows the language of sections 505(b) and 1983. this amendment should correct any doubts the court may have had and make clear congress intent to afford full protection for the educational rights of handicapped children. my second amendment makes clear that congress with the passage of public law 94142 did  intend to limit or reduce the rights. procedures. and remedies available to handicapped children under the u.s. constitution. title v of the rehabilitation act. and other federal statutes. despite the conjecture of the court. i do  believe that in enacting public law 94142 it was ever the intention of congress to exclude from the broad coverage of the constitution and our civil rights statutes. the claims of handicapped children seeking education. justices brennan. marshall. and stevens in their dissenting opinion stated: congress will  have to take the time to revisit the matter. and until it does. the handicapped children of this country whose difficulties are compounded by discrimination and by other deprivations of constitutional rights will have to pay the costs. itis at best ironic that the court has managed to impose this burden on handicapped children in the course of interpreting a statute wholly intended to promote the educational rights of those children. i urge my colleagues to support this legislation which simply clarifies the intent of congress to protect the educational rights of handicapped children.e by mr. dole (for himself. mr.
. i rise today as a participant in the congressional call to conscience vigil . for soviet jews. organized by our distinguished colleague senator boschwitz. embedded in the tradition and the national conscience of the united states is a deep concern for oppressed people. whether they reside within our borders or halfway around the world. it is thus our duty and privilege to speak out in defense of those whose basic rights are denied by governments that do  share our regard for the dignity of all human beings. foremost in these efforts should be our advocacy for soviet jewry. for whom conditions have progressively worsened in recent years. one such example is that of igor gregorovich malishev. he and his wife. anna. and their son. stanislav. first applied for visas in january of 1980 in order to join igors sister in israel. they were denied. subsequent applications were submitted every 6 months. these visa applications were also denied. although annas mother gave her written permission for them to go to israel. they were refused on the pretext that they should  split the family by leaving a parent behind. until 1979 the malishevs lived in kiev where igor worked as a maths lecturer at the university for 11 years. after igors dismissal from the university. malishevs moved to riga where igor worked as a relief teacher until 1982 when he was forced to resign in order to submit his sixth application for an exit visa. since then .he has given private tutoring in mathematics. the continued repression of the jews in the soviet union must be stopped. the malishevs are only one of the thousands of the soviet jewish families wishing to flee the soviet union. but who are  permitted. it is our duty to call for the discontinuation of this tyranny of soviet authorities and to put the full strength of our diplomatic and ecoic resources behind our words.e
. i find it a rather interesting approach to the law in this nation that there is an availability to the law of a certain dimension for one. category of citizens and then. if you are poor. apparently the availability to the law is slightly different from aher category of citizens. that. in essence. is what you are doing here. if you have legal services. it seems to me that you have legal services. period. this issue has been nibbled away at in other areas.  just abortion. i want to put myself on record as saying that what i think congress is doing is. on the basis of income. on the basis of ecoic status. applying a different standard of the law to one constituency as compared to aher. that is  my idea of the law  the way the law is to be applied.  the way availability of the law is to be applied. point  2: i think it must be clear to everybody in this chamber that the votes really longer exist on either side of this abortion issue. either to roll back the legislation achieved in the last several years by those who are termed pro lifeand i find that objectionable. because i do  think it accurately describes the situationand i do  think the votes are here for any further extension of the law than that which presently exists. i urge my colleagues. whether they are on this floor or whether they are listening in their offices. that the time has come to give a rest to this whole issue. ody is going to achieve less than exists in the law today. ody is going to achieve more than exists in the law. all we are going to achieve is to take time and attention away from the issues that are truly pressing to this nation. assurances have been given by my colleague from th carolina and others that they will  see any pullback in the areas in which they have achieved gains over the years. and i respect that. however. speaking for those of us on my side of these issues. let me assure my colleagues that under circumstances are we going to go any further on this issue. so let us get on with the business we have in many other areas and be done with this issue. at least for the time being. the votes are on neither sideor. to put it aher way. there are plenty of votes on both sides to make sure that we waste a lot of time and achieve hing for it.
i would like to respond to the distinguished friend from washington saying i think the distinguished senator from missouri meant what he said and i am  here to speak for him but neither is he here to speak for me. this would  have been a point of order i would have made for the reasons of exactly what it does which is to take down both amendments. whereas. i think this body should have an up and down vote on the helms amendment and up and down vote on the azt amendment. i think these are two separate matters and should be addressed separately. the distinguished senator from missouri is well within his rights to make his point of order and at this juncture i am trying to figure out how we can get us out of the bind without an idinate amount of time.
let me say to the senator the statistics the senator likes to cite. in fact there is a large atrisk population and it is engaging in premarital sex. extramarital sex. i do  care however the senator wants to go ahead and put it. this is  the homosexual population. does the senator deem it proper as a matter of federal advice to have as a part of that advice the use of condoms to prevent sexually transmitted diseases.
would  have permitted the senator from th carolina to bewould  permit an amendment. in other words. to have taken away the rights of the distinguished senator from th carolina. we would  have allowed that to happen. clearly we understood what we were doing and should there have been some other senator that desired to try and accomplish that he would have faced  only the opposition of the senator from th carolina. but also the opposition of the senators from florida and connecticut.
in the second degree to the humphrey amendment on small providers. provided the seconddegree amendment is germane and relevant thereto. that there be more than 1 hour on the seconddegree amendment and that it be similarly controlld and divided. that there be further amendments dealing with abortion. further abortion amendments be in order. and. . i ask unanimous consent that on debatable motions or appealsmotion to reconsider having already been exceptedor points of order there be a limitation of 20 minutes to be equally divided and controlled in the urual form. i think that is about as fax as we have gotten. but if we could get consent on that we could go home.
well. i will let the senator from missouri explain how he is reaching into the regulations. i think that is really for him to explain because it is his amendment. again. all i have done is to restate the law in this amendment. it is simple. i have to repeat to the distinguished senator from florida that my amendment is superfluous to the law as presently written. but it is presented to this body since there are those that have said the civil rights restoration act gives additional abortion discretion that did  exist in the law before. so in order to reemphasize that that is exactly what we are  doing. we present this amendment. and we say so again in the year 1988. it does more than that.
it is a reaffirmation of that statutory authority. more. i think maybe what is in the back of the mind of the distinguished senator from floridacorrect me if i am wrong. because i do  mean to go ahead and put words in your mouthis. does enactment of this amendment retroactively approve of the regulations that were enacted back then. if that is the question. i do  think it accomplishes that either. i still think it is open to court interpretation. i do  think anything we do here in any way changes the law as it was or the regulatory interpretation of that law. the next amendment clearly does. there is question about that. we have merely tried to respond to those that have a doubt that we are expanding abortion rights under this legislation. and we tried to assure them by restating that such is  the case
i do  think we should be in the position to alter or dilute the first amendment rights of the people of this nation. we are  here to subsidize mediocrity. socialize politics or congressionally define what speedl- is permissable. let it be a free system of elections. let the people decide.  congress. let the people decide on the matter of ideas as expressed through the press. and. yes. political lives in freedom with rancid people and ideas just as the press so similarily exists. but you do  bring freedom in the united states down to the lowest common deinator. this bill is geared to a lowest common deinator reasoning and if it passes it replaces the highest expectations of the first amendment.
. i will be brief in my comments. it is very easy to trivialize an emously important program by innuendo. by sensationalistic phrases. words. et cetera. the fact is that title x is a serious attempt to avoid. through education. the problems that associate or can associate with sexual behavior that leads to unwanted pregnancies or leads to many of the other problems which i have alluded to in my past remarks. i do  k how we start to micromanage here on the senate floor as to the matter of education. that is a matter best left in the hands of educators. doctors. indeed. those individuals who run the title x program. . to say that there is such thing as a contraceptive or just sort of block it out as if it did  exist. that is educating in igance. it is there. it is one tool. it does  guarantee results any more than it protects from disease. but it is one aspect of the education program. my colleagues who feel strongly about the abortion matterand i respect their beliefsif they want to avoid the condition that brings on abortion. then they should be the most vigorous advocates for title x. this entire matter has been reviewed in the past and rejected by the u.s. senate. i wish it were. i might add. that all teenagers would go to their parents for advice in this area. the fact is they do . which is why we have title x in the main. they want somebody else to talk to. they prefer to talk to their doctor. they prefer to talk to their teachers. if we did our job as parents. both in terms of inculcating morals in our children and giving them the advice relative to drugs. relative to aids. relative to the results of promiscuity. we would  need any of these programs. everything would be ok. but we do . for a variety of reasons. most of them. admittedly. are  excusable. but there are those situations where there is home. then who does the job. who does the job. i hope in that sense we do  try to have politicians take on the role of educators and doctors. we have an administration which admittedly is of a bent closer in philosophy to that of the distinguished senator from th carolina than this senator. out of the department of health and human services itself has come the statement that. unlike what was alluded to by the senator from th carolina.  title x is  an abortion advocacy program. so i hope this program. even though it has its detractors within the administration as it does on the senate floor. will continue the job which was intended by the congress of the united states. which is to educate.  to selectively educate. but to educate. to avoid unwanted pregnancies. to give advice when there is pregnancy. and to avoid abortion. that is what is at issue. if you only want to go ahead and tell half the truth or half the facts. then you are going to be stuck with half the results. i think we all k the tragedy that associates with that. i support the distinguished senator from florida. i have hing further to say. does the distinguished senator from florida wish to move to table at this time.
. american business. and the american people. we must stop doing business with apartheid and. at the same time. do whatever we can to strengthen the frontline nations of southern africa. they. too. have suffered because of pretorias policies. nelson mandela must be freed. so must the many thousands whose names we do  k. freedom of speech and of the press must be restored. and the race laws must go in favor. as the freedom charter of 1955 put it. of a "south africa that belongs to all who live in it. black and white." if we do  work toward these ends. then 5. 10. or 50 years from . our children will look back on our generation as we look back on the era of the 1930s and ask. "how could you be silent." "how could you stand by and do hing." the children of south africa are asking these questions today. "the struggle is my life." nelson mandela once wrote. we must put our political freedom to work. such that this struggle becomes the centerpiece of our south africa policy. i am here to put my colleagues on ice that this struggle will continue in the senate next year.
. the idea of the 21year age minimum for voting is based only on tradition. and an outmoded tradition at that. here is it granted more sanction than an uncertain shibboleth of a bygone age providedan age which also barred voting rights to women and created or permitted other artificial barriers to a universal franchise. in our day. when the whole thrust of the extension of democracy is to make it easier for qualified people to vote. the maintenance of the arbitrary and artificial 21year limit is unjustified and undesirable. contemporary moves to enlarge the electorate and extend the basic privilege of the franchise are typified by the vote  granted to spanishspeaking residents of new york. for example. the lowering of needlessly long residence requirements in numerous states. the voting rights act which has won the vote for hundreds of thousands of negroes. the abolition of the poll tax. and removal of other unnatural impediments. the battles to extend the right of the ballot to women were won only after decades of effort against the obstructionist weight of inertia and skepticism. the battles to insure the ballot to the negro were won after many years more of even more active obstructionism. the fight for an 18yearold franchise has also been going on for many years. nearly a quarter century has passed since the first state extended the ballot to its 18yearolds. since then at least three other states have lowered the voting age below 21. and for the past 15 years. efforts have been partially successfulonly partiallyin congress to establish 18 as the voting age through a constitutional amendment. our history shows that this reform. like the others. will come in time. the year 1967 should be the timesuch an act would be especially timely in a day when the nations young people are looking for a "signal" from their elders which will express the nations respect for the judgment and the responsibility of the younger people. responsibility conferred will be responsibility grasped. in everwidening circles. this gesture of confidence in our young people will reap littlerealized dividends for the nation. i repeat.  is the time for the 18yearold veto to be achieved through a constitutional amendment to achieve the goal more effectively than possible through action by individual states alone.
. today i join with many others in observing the 60th birthday of a man who was a great leader. joseph a. yablonski. the tragedy of this observance is that mr. yablonski is longer alive to receive our well wishes. he died while doing his utmost to serve his fellow laborers in the united mine workers of america. for 35 years. he was associated with organized labor and shared with this nations 110.000 working miners their hopes for better working conditions and a better life. joseph yablonski pioneered for reform in mine safety in an industry that takes the lives of 1 out of every 300 coal miners each year at a rate 14 times greater than the national average for all workers. he was instrumental in seeking passage of workmens compensation laws in pennsylvania to protect miners from health risks including the dread black lung disease. he campaigned for national recognition of a black lung safety act and constantly championed the rights of the union membership over the rights of any of its leaders. he represented the best in organized labor. it is my hope. and the hope of everyone who joins in this observance of his birthday. that the ideals joseph yablonski stood for will  pass away with his death.
. i urge my colleagues in the senate to ratify these human rights conventions. surely we have reason to oppose in principle the extension of political rights of women. the abolition of slavery. the condemnation of the crime of geide. the elimination of discrimination in employment. the guarantee of rights for stateless persons. we need  fear that these conventions will represent an infringement of our national sovereigntythey embody ideals to which we already ascribe in our constitution and in our laws. our ratification of these conventions would lend further support to the validity of the ideals which they contain as guiding principles in our modern world.
the distinguished senator from illis said that public exposure is a great weapon and that it should be used by the subversive activities control board. exposure has been in the past. and can still be. very detrimental to this nation. can be unconstitutional. and can violate the civil liberties and rights of american people. as it has done in the past. it seems that we would better achieve our purposes to effectively combat the communist menace in this country by utilizing the vast resources of the federal bureau of investigation. the justice department. and the attorney general who give maximum protection to the rights of all american citizens. who do  expose individuals or organizations without having sufficient evidence to warrant an indictment. and without holding public hearings. beyond the mere fact of calling witnesses before the committee to create the impression among people all over the country that persons who appear before the committee are either communists or affiliated with communist organizations.
i believe that this country is great egh to give the rights of all american citizens maximum protection and at the same time protect itself against the communist menace. we did it prior to 1950. we have done it since 1950 without the effective support of the subversive activities control board. for that board has  rendered a service to the american people. i defy anyone to point to any cases that the subversive activities control board has brought before the courts which have brought out any facts about communists or communistfront organizations which were  already contained in the records of the duly constituted law enforcement agencies of this country. therefore. . i believe that this board should be abolished. that its life tenure should  be extended for 18 months or certainly even beyond that. i believe we are justified in abolishing this board.  only because it has  done its job. but also because it is a potential threat to the civil liberties of the american people.
. these are extremely modest provisions. they do hing more than make a beginning on a long and complicated endeavor: the establishment of reasonable records of the firearms circulating or held in the united states. these lethal instruments should  be traded without restraint. they constitute a hazard for which a prudent society should make some provision. the mere collection of information infringes ones rights and. by opening the traffic in arms to thorough scrutiny by responsible officials. can serve the vital goal of reducing the collateral dangers in a nation which has clearly reserved the right of citizens to own weapons. national registration can help immensely in the struggle to keep firearms from falling into the hands of those who can lawfully hold them. it can substantially facilitate efforts to detect and recover weapons which have been stolen. this is a measure which the american people demand and deserve. in conjunction with a strengthening of other provisions of this title. national registration can make a major contribution to preventing the circumvention of the attempts to control a burgeoning commerce which threatens the public interest. i hope that the senate will recognize the merits of such registration and will adopt this amendment without delay. at the appropriate time. i intend to ask for a record vote on this amendment.
. in view of the nature of our social system. and taking into account the multitude of institutional safeguards devised to assure full and adequate hearings to all groups. i fail to see how the passage of a rule which would slightly increase the likelihood that a vote can be taken on a controversial issue could undermine the rights of the miity. the wishes of the people. or the hallowed intent of the eminent statesmen who founded our great nation. in the interests of efficient and responsive government. i therefore urge that the proposed change in rule xxii be adopted.
. the senate was deeply saddened by the death late last year of the incomparable senator from alaska. bob bartlett. senator bartlett was a champion of alaskan statehood. he had lived in alaska since the turn of the century. and had learned to love its rich natural resources. he first came to washington as a delegate from the territory in 1944. and served in the congress until alaska was admitted to the union in 1959. at that time he was elected to the senate for a 2year term. and easily won reelection in 1960. throughout his years of service in the congress. boa bartlett spoke clearly and well for the rights of the less populous states. he understood the needs of the farmers. the small businessmen. and the sportsmen. but he was able to understand the conditions of city life as well. he appreciated the changes which are occurring in our society. he comprehended the tensions. and he sought to turn the tides to the advantage of the entire country. senator bartlett was a man who saw the longrange needs of this nation and put them foremost. his counsel and perspective will be sorely missed.
. i rise today with a sense of disappointment and urgency over a continuing problem of national dimensions. my concern is directed to the inadequate development of responsible and effective firearms controls. the debate over which approach to adopt on the federal level has been clouded at times by emotional arguments advanced in the heat of controversy. nevertheless. certain basic facts have emerged which demonstrate the relationship between the irresponsible use of firearms and the increasing rate of crime. for instance. we k that since 1965. armed robberies by gun have increased 58 percent and aggravated assaults by gun have increased 76 percent. we also k that the united states is by far the leader of the free industrial countries of the world in both the rate per capita and the absolute number of homicides. suicides and accidents by firearms. more important than what we k is what we do  k. in light of the inherent danger of firearms. it seems incredible that there has been comprehensive count of firearms sales by the government since 1963 when the last study was conducted by the bureau of the census. the result is that in the absence of adequate data as to the number of firearms outstanding. estimates range from 100 million to 200 million. sufficient information is also unavailable as to the number of firearms currently being sold to residents of each state or city and the number of firearms stolen or transferred annually. the importance of complete and adequate information is undeniably basic to an effective form of control. without it. the only improvement possible is the more rapid transmission of inadequate information. with these thoughts and concerns in mind. i am very pleased to join my distinguished colleague. the senior senator from new york. in the introduction of a measure that is specifically designed to encourage the individual states to enact firearms information legislation. it is important to e that while the states are given strong incentive to adopt their own inventories and to share the collected information with the federal government. they are  compelled to do so. however. the efficiency of any central system will be directly proportional to the amount of state cooperation and participation elicited. every american citizen has a vested interest in the formulation of effective and responsible firearms control legislation. the improper use of firearms is  limited to any one part of the country  is it peculiar to any one ethnic group or race. i am hopeful that this measure will be considered favorably this session in an atmosphere of constructive debate and positive action. it is a promising fresh approach to a chronic problem. and represents yet aher option in the growing list of reasonable proposals to deal with this grave blight in our national life.
. it is with regret that i salute the senior senator from ohio upon his retirement from this chamber. many -are the times when his has been the only voice raised in protest against a proposed course of actionand many are the times when he has been proven right. for 12 years in this body. and 8 years in the house. steve young has served with rare diligence and devotion to duty. with his departure. the senate will lose a true and honest spokesman for the rights of individuals. i regard steve young as a friend. and wish him a long and rewarding practice of the law.
. i am pleased to cosponsor and to vote for final passage of senate joint resolution 7. a constitutional amendment extending the right to vote in all electionsfederal. state. and localto citizens 18 years and older. approval of this proposal will represent a highly significant event in the history of the effort to extend the voting franchise. millions of individuals who rightly merit a voice in the operation of the government that affects their lives in many ways will be afforded an opportunity to shape the policies of their country. this amendment represents democracy at its best. it assumes that those who are obligated to pay taxes. who are held legally responsible for their actions. and who are required to defend their nation can have an equal voice with their peers in setting its laws and policies. indeed. it could well be said that ratification of this constitutional amendment will remove one of the last vestiges of compulsory servitude in our legal system. but more than that. our support of this proposal will be a clear message to young people that in the eyes of their country they possess the maturity and wisdom to register a full voice in the functioning of government. it will be a firm statement to them that they can work to change the system while operating within the system. at a time when many of them have an opportunity to do intensive thinking about american tradition and its social and legal structures. collegeage individuals will  have a greater incentive to test their own ideas and to be able to judge as well as to influence their nations direction. the average 18yearold in 1969 had completed 12.2 years of education. more than 50 percent of those age 18male and femaleare today enrolled in school. this. of course. is a great changeand a welcome onefrom the statistics of a generation ago. when only 16 percent of all young people went to college in our young adults have conclusively proven. i believe. that they do deserve and will use wisely the full political rights which this proposal will bestow upon them. from a practical standpoint. there is aher important reason why this constitutional amendment should be ratified as soon as possible. as a result of the supreme court decision last december upholding a provision of the 1970 voting rights act which lowered the voting age to 18but making it applicable only to federal electionsthere are bound to be many complex administrative problems and added expenses for election officials for so long as there are different minimum ages for voter qualification in state and local as opposed to federal elections. the best and most expeditious solution to the problem will be for the senate and house to each pass the amendment and then for at least threefourths of the state legislatures to approve it. congressional action followed by the supreme courts ruling will. hopefully. have the effect of hastening the implementation of this proposal which so many distinguished individuals and groups have been advocating for so many years. it is a change which i have long advocated. i firmly believe that the millions of young people who will be given the right to vote by this amendment will use that right proudly and honestly. and that our country will benefit greatly from their contributions.
. this is just the beginning of discussions of this matter on the floor of the u.s. senate. i hope there will be more discussions of this nature. i think it will serve a very useful purpose. i think it lets  only great britain. but ireland as well. and the peoples of the world. k of our deep concern about the problems there. and our efforts to lend our good offices and to make suggestions and recommendations for which. as my colleague has well pointed out. there is ample precedent. i should like at this time to quote from the protocol of the 1950 convention. it says: every member of the council of europei add that england and ireland are members of that councilmust accept the principles of the rule of law and the enjoyment by all persons within its jurisdiction of human rights and fundamental freedoms and collaborate sincerely and effectively in the realization of the aims of the council.... it goes on to enumerate other rights covered by the convention. which include: life. liberty and security of the person. freedom from arbitrary arrest. detention.... freedom of opinion and expression. freedom of assembly and association.... . certainly. these are principles to which both england and ireland are committed. and i think that if we can get on with some discussions under the good offices of the united states. under the european commission on human rights. or under the united nations. if there is a possibility of that. the irish foreign minister. mr. hillery also suggested. i believe. that he would be calling on the heads of other nations around the world. particularly in western europeand their good offices may be lent to the effort as well. i think that perhaps.  1. we could start. hopefully. with termination of the internment policy. which i think is in violation of the principles set forth in this convention and in this protocol.  2. there could be a phasing out of british troops. over a period of time. during which time we could have some assurances from the ulster government. for example. that there would  be a return of any militant groups and that there would be control of the constabulary in thern ireland. on the other hand. prime minister lynch would have control over the irish republican army. which he has indicated he would want to do and could do. under these circumstances. all parties could get on to a political settlement of the differences. as i said initially. i think they are  confronted here so much with a religious issue as with a political and ecoic issue. there is clearly some movement . even in independent ireland. with a change in the leadership in the church. to practice wide religious tolerance. even some of the religious provisions in their constitution would be deleted. perhaps someday soon they might get on with what former prime minister wilson has talked about. namely. the unification of ireland. i do  k whether that is the answer to the problen. i am  suggesting that it is the answer to the problem. i am merely saying that there is hing there even though there has been deepseated feeling dating back as far as 1170that in 1972. with the development and great progress we have had in religious understanding. can be resolved through negotiations and discussions rather than through bloodshed and violence.
. on july 26. 1972. the order of ahepa. the american hellenic educational progressive association. will celebrate the 50th anniversary of its founding. the order of ahepa is a fraternal organization which is sectarian and political. membership in the order is open to men of good moral character who either are or intend to become citizens of the united states or of canada. originally founded in atlanta. ga.. the order of ahepa  has 430 chapters in 49 states. canada. and australia. in its 50 years of worthy service to our country. the order of ahepa has contributed to many valuable causes. these include relief for hurricane and flood victims. scholarships for deserving students. and aid to many overseas cultural programs. the order of ahepa has nine basic objectives. which all americans can certainly share: first. to promote and encourage loyalty to the united states of america. second. to instruct its members in the tenets and fundamental principles of government. and in the recognition and respect of the inalienable rights of mankind. third. to instill in its membership a due appreciation of the privileges of citizenship. fourth. to encourage its members to always be profoundly interested and actively participating in the political. civic. social. and commercial fields of human endeavor. fifth. to pledge its members to do their utmost to stamp out any and all political corruption. and to arouse its members to the fact that tyranny is a menace to the life. property. prosperity. ho. and integrity of every nation. sixth. to promote a better and more comprehensive understanding of the attributes and ideals of hellenism and hellenic culture. seventh. to promote good fellowship. and endow its members with the perfection of the moral sense. eighth. to endow its members with a spirit of altruism. common understanding. mutual benevolence. and helpfulness. ninth. to champion the cause of education. and to maintain new channels for facilitating the dissemination of culture and learning. i the order of ahepa has always displayed its benevolence and generosity to those in need both here and abroad during its 50 years of existence. i am confident that the order of ahepa will continue to make contributions to the betterment of american life for many years to come.
. reserving the right to object. i do  think anyone here denies that the distinguished senator from alabama is within his rights in what he is doing. he feels very strongly about it. and i think others in the chamber feel equally strong. but i think the senator already has indicated a spirit of accommodation. which is customary for him to do. he could talk until midnight and we would  get anything done. but he has shown a spirit of accommodation. he first said he would agree to the 5 oclock suggestion and then indicated he would agree to the 6 oclock suggestion. certainly by doing so. his rights will  be impaired at all. however. i do  believe we are going to be able to finish the social security bill by 6 oclock. therefore. i would impress upon the distinguished senator from alabama and his good judgment and wisdom. and again in a spirit of accommodation. that if he would extend it to 7 oclock i feel that by that time we could finish the social security bill and then by unanimous consent take up this bill and debate it. by that time we might have a spirited debateand who ks what the outcome would be. if he still feels strongly about the matter he could talk until midnight. and i do  think his point would be lost. but we should be grateful to him for the spirit of accomodation he has demonstrated. i suggest to him that he might consider 7 p.m. and then we would see what we could do in the interim to speed up time agreements in order that we might get the social security bill out of the way. that piece of legislation is very important also. my question is directed to the distinguished senator from alabama.
. on saturday. january 26. 1974. here in washington. our miity leader. senator hugh scott. was hoed in a night of hos salute to the hoable hugh scott. i was pleased to serve as hoary chairman of this event in which tributes were paid to hugh scott for his unstinting efforts to insure the rights of all americans. in a speech at the salute. clarence mitchell. director of the washington bureau of the national association for the advancement of colored people. summed up senator scotts record of devotion to the 14th amendments grand promise of "equal treatment under the law." i would like to share mr. mitchells tribute with my colleagues and i ask unanimous consent that his remarks be printed in the record.
and he has been a part of it and i commend him for it. but. certainly. the senator from maryland must understand that if we adopt the helms amendment we are taking a giant step backward in the whole field of the enforcement of civil rights. . what language does the senator from maryland have that would give him the protection that he so desires to see that there would be harassment. and i do agree that there should  be harassment. i do  want to see the federal bureaucracy harass anybody in the name of civil rights. i think the senator is absolutely correct that if we had such legislation i would be voting for it myself. but what i am saying to the senator is that we have tried to establish. by the colloquy on this floor. legislative history to make clear the intent of this congress to hew. and to any other federal bureaucracy. but we also want to make it clear that we want to enforce the civil rights laws that -are on the books. and certainly  take away from that federal bureaucracy. and particularly from hew. the only tools with which they can work in order to enforce civil rights. i have great respect for jesse helms. he is a friend of mine. we debate on the floor and i understand what he wants to do. but all i am saying to him is this. that if we do  have the tools with which to work. then the civil rights law is a nullity. how can one enforce the rights of women if we can tell how many women there are. how can we enforce the rights of blacks or indians or anybody else if we can tell how many there are. and the helms amendment would take away from us the opportunity to get that data and that information which is so essential in the enforcement of civil rights laws. if the senator has any language that would stop harassment. i am for it. but we have  come up with it and it certainly is  contained in the helms amendment or any other amendment that has been suggested on this floor.
i thank the senator. . on december 10. 1974. the temporary suspension of the various laws requiring a cutoff of u.s. military assistance to turkey because of that countrys military actions on cyprus will terminate. if significant progress is  achieved in the next week toward an agreement that will lead to the immediate withdrawal of turkish armed forces from the island. an extremely unlikely possibility. the united states must suspend all military aid to turkey until such progress occurs. in october of this year various members of the senate. including myself. believed that -a cutoff of military aid to turkey should be avoided for a time in order to enhance the chances for meaningful negotiations. it was  unjustifled at that time to hope that such negotiations were imminent.  was it untenable or unwise to believe that every effort -should -be made to avoid the danger of provoking turkish intransigence through a precipitous cutoff of military assistance .so long as the possibility of an immediate agreement on the withdrawal of turkish forces from the island existed. hence. the compromise finally agreed to. suspending the effect of the various legal -provisions conditioning the giving of military aid. was a prudent course of action. unfortunately. the hopes that motivated that action have yet to be fulfilled. meaningful negotiations have  occurred. turkey has  exhibited. in any marked degree. a willingness to withdraw its forces from cyprus in the near future. indeed. there are disturbing indications that turkey is buttressing its military positions in such a way as to permit it the option to partition cyprus permanently if it chooses to do so. moreover. some observers have ed that turkey seems intent on insisting that the turkish cypriots receive far more of the -productive land in any settlement than their percentage of total population would justify. in addition. the lack of a stable government in turkey increases the -likelihood that such tendencies will  be altered in the immediate future. in light of these developments. a continued suspension of the legal requirements after december 10. 1974. would be unjustified. even though the united states must suspend military aid to turkey until significant progress takes place. u.s. efforts to encourage moderation on both sides should  abate. our primary objective must be to avoid a situation where the intransigency of either greece or turkey leads to a permanent alienation of the united states from either country. suh alienationwould do irreparable harm to the nato alliance and thus to the vital interests of the united states. hence. great prudence and patience will be required as we continue our efforts to promote a solution to the crisis. patience that reflects a continuing attempt to balance the need to exert maximum influence on ankara to abandon its reliance on military force to protect its interests with the opposing requirement of avoiding unnecessary provocations that increase turkish intransigency and hence make an equitable settlement more difficult to achieve. at the same time. u.s. policy must recognize and promote the just expectations of the greeks and greek cypriots regarding their legitimate aspirations for cyprus. although the lack of progress toward a settlement and the continued obstinancy of the turkish government regarding the removal of its forces from cyprus has seriously undermined the efforts by the united states and others to achieve the desired balance between these competing objectives. the search for such a balance should  be abandoned. it is in our interest to promote a cyprus solution that is something more than a pause between shooting wars. while it would be presumptuous to claim one has such a solution. several basic objectives can be identified that must be met if a stable situation is to evolve. first. cyprus must remain an independent unified state. second. a new constitutional arrangement will have to be evolved that will insure adequate security for the various ethnic communities while at the same time permitting -effective functioning of a central government in areas where diffused authority is unworkable. suggestions emphasizing a cantonal arrangement on the swiss model are worth consideration but it must be recognized that it is the ethnic groups on cyprus who must effect a workable arrangement if further conflict is to be avoided. in the process of achieving the above. several initiatives will be necessary. demilitarization of the island must occur if all the involved parties are eventually to achieve the confidence in each others intentions necessary for peace. there is precedence for such demilitarization in the area in the 1923 treaty of lausanne which provided for the demilitarization of several greek islands. some form of international guarantees of the independence of cyprus and the right of the cypriot communities to equitable treatment within a unified state will have to be evolved if greece and turkey are to forego the option of intervening unilaterally in the future. since the prior arrangement whereby guarantees were given by turkey. greece. and the united kingdom has proved inadequate. consideration should be given to some form of general u.n. guarantee.
ial campaign practices. the watergate committee as it came to be kn was thorough and fair. its chairman. sam ervin. would  have had it any other way. its service to the nation can never be underestimated. in the year of its existence. it uncovered widespread scandal. corruption. and intrigue. it did so in an orderly evenhanded way that drew praises from every quarter. but sam ervin was leading battles long before watergate. throughout his senate service he has been fighting for the privacy and freedom of conscience for individuals. he has sought to protect the rights of voters from the abuses of the literacy test and other voter requirements. he has sought to safeguard the rights of persons in the military. he has championed the rights of the mentally ill. he has fought for th2 rights of american indians. in 1970. he led the unsuccessful opposition to the "kk" provision of the d.c. crime bill. and this year was successful in repealing that provision. sam ervin has alerted us to the dangers the computer age poses for individuals. he has sought to proscribe the operation of government and other data banks. although we have differed on many constitutional issues. particularly in the area of civil rights. i respect him as one of the senates leading authorities on the preservation of individual liberties guaranteed by the constitution. in addition to serving as chairman of the senate judiciary committees subcommittee on constitutional rights. senator ervin serves on the subcommittee on separation of powers. time and again during his 20 years of service. he has warned of the erosion of legislative power. this year as chairman of the government operations committee he saw enacted into law his bill to establish a new congressional budgetary system so that congress can regain its rightful powers as it accepts its rightful responsibilities. sam ervin is a legend in the senate and he was so. long before watergate. but the chairmanship of the watergate committee led millions of americans to conclude what we already knew.  as he prepares to return to morganton. i wish sam and his dear wife all the best. they will be sorely missed.
i am cognizant of the senators very unusual ethnic problem in the state of new mexico. and i very well recall the senators amendment. but i think the senator is primarily interested in seeing that the voting rights of his constituents. all of his constituents. are protected. and i can clearly say to the senatorand i do  think this is a matter for interpretationthat if you repeal section 4. you will  get that protection.
if i may have the attention of the senator from oklahoma. i think the federal government through this bill only pays for the administration cost. employment services. and the like. i might use the argument of states rights position here in the chamber. but i think this is clearly a matter of states rights. as the senator well ks. some states have already done exactly what he wants them to do. others have  done so. it is an individual states problem.
i certainly would like to see us close loopholes. but i feel that the senator might be injuring the rights of federal employees and military employees. the fact that we are having this colloquy. which i think is very helpful. is proof positive that this is such an important subject that it ought to be subjected to lengthy hearings and all the information that can be obtained should be obtained to be sure that we are doing the right thing in closing up any loophole in the manner which the senator from oklahoma suggests. i do  like to see happen what the senator has said happens.
. this is an important piece of legislation. one of the amendments which has been adopted by the senate. the socalled biden amendment. is an amendment which. in effect. would vitiate title vi of the civil rights act of 1964. even the proponent of that amendment. senator biden. admits this amendment goes much further than he had wanted it to. senator biden has said that he did  intend to vitiate title vi of the 1964 civil rights act. rather he wanted an antibusing amendment. i can understand the senators who want an antibusing amendment. i do  agree with them. but i understand and respect their rights to seek one. they have had an opportunity to vote upon their amendments. but if i am denied the right to bring up my amendment because of this inadvertency. then. in effect. this bill could be passed without my having an opportunity to have a vote on my amendment and with the socalled biden amendment as a part of this legislation. i am appealing to my colleagues in equity. and i think there is a case in equity. i am  asking senators to change their votes insofar as the substantive legislation is concerned. how a senator votes on the amendments that i call up is his own business. i am merely asking an opportunity to have my amendments qualify so that they can be voted upon. up or down. or even be subject to a motion to tablei do  even worry about a motion to tablebut at least give the senate an opportunity to vote on my amendment. which would in effectand i inform senators of what it would donullify the biden amendment. i feel this unfortunate parliamentary situation was the result of an inadvertencyand i term it that because i think that is exactly what it wasbecause it is my understanding that for as long as anyone can remember the leadership has automatically gotten this unanimousconsent agreement. it is just one of those things we ordinarily do and i do  blame anyone for  doing it. i merely say that the fact is that it was  done and as a result thereof the amendment does  qualify. i am asking my colleagues to support me when i call this amendment up and a point of order is raised. and i appeal to the chair.
i am  going to go into such a very specious argument. of course life is precious. life is foremost. we are here to protect life.  destroy life. i agree with the senator. in this case. as i tried to point out to my friend. we have to realize that under this bill language a poor mother can have her life protected if an abortion is the only way of protecting that life.
yes. i said that i am going to do it.  . but at the appropriate time. of course. i would  violate the senators privileges or rights under any circumstances. do i understand that the senator has two amendments or is there only one amendment.
i do  think that is the best argument. bepause it means the senator is saying that one can have an abortion at federal expense. the point is that these are the people who. if they are to have an abortion at all. would have to have it at federal expense because they can afford it any other way. those  covered by the prohibition in the hyde amendment are people  in need. so they can go out and pay for an abortion.
even if a mothers life is to be saved. or even if the woman is raped and becomes pregnant. or even if the woman becomes pregnant by incest. in any of those situations she would be denied the right to have an abortion at federal expense.
. as can be seen. there timated length of gestation of less than 20 are many compelling reasons to delete completed weeks (139 days). calculated the hyde amendment. the senate clear- from the first day of the last mal menly recognized this in its original vote on strual period. may be used. abortion is a this measure. at that time the hyde term referring to the birth process culmiamendment was rejected by an over- nating before the 20th completed week of whelming vote of 57 to 28. facts have gestation." emerged since that time to cause the the "hospital adaptation of icda." second edition (1973). based on the international senate to reverse itself. i. therefore. classification of diseases. is the standard strongly urge my colleagues to join me classification used throughout america and in insisting that the senate hold to its lists the following. beginning on the bottom original positionand that is. to delete of page 316: the unconscionable hyde amendment. abortion (640646) includes any inter-
. in response to the distinguished chairman. i have a twopage statement on this amendment. we have been discussing abortion since 3 oclock today. i think all senators k how they want to vote on this amendment. i just would like to submit it. and i am prepared to put it to a vote.
i respect the senator on that. we discussed that. and i will  ask the senator to compromise on that issue at all. and that is  what i am suggesting to him. i would be the last to ask him to compromise on that issue because i k he feels as strongly about his position as i feel about mine. and many other senators feel about theirs. so i am  asking him to compromise on the issue.  the substantive issue. i am asking him merely to compromise on letting us get a continuing resolution for 2 weeks which in way impairs the senators position. this matter has still to go before the conference. it has to be voted on by the house of representatives. and it then comes back to the senate. at some time the senator will have an opportunity to introduce any amendment. he does  have to accept the conference report. he can make an amendment to the conference report. he has all sorts of rights and remedies as he sees fit to use. and i am  asking him to compromise any of those rights or any of those remedies. i am merely saying to him why hold up the senate. why hold up all of these payless people when all we are trying to do is resolve a procedural matter at this time that does  in any way affect the substantive issue. if it did. then we would be asking the senator to compromise his conscience which i k he can do as a man. and i respect him for that position.
the senator several times mentioned "this great liberalism." referring to this amendment. i hope the senator realizes that this is  a liberalconservative issue. if anything. it is more conservative than it is liberal. it is really a conservative concept which is embodied in this amendment. concern for individual rights and administrative orderliness. as cosponsors of this amendment we have the distinguished senator from alabama and the senator from oklahoma -  considered a liberal. as such. we have senator domenici. who is  considered a liberal. as such. we have senator hollings who is  considered a liberal. senator proxmire is  considered what is sometimes referred to as a "bleeding heart" liberal although i do  k how he wants to be classified.
said that if he had to vote today on the panamacanal treaty. his vote would be "" so the battle is really just getting started. i am glad that we have been able to have 32 votes. just two votes short of the required number to defeat these treaties. we had 32 votes cast against the neutrality treaty. my goodness. that is a pretty good vote against a treaty that provides for defending the canal. who could be opposed to defending the canal. senators who did  think the treaty provided strong egh defense rights for the united statesthat is who could be against it. i believe that the draftsmanship of the panama canal treaty leaves much more to be desired than does the draftsmanship of the neutrality treaty. it is replete with ambiguities. discrepancies. and provisions that are  in the best interests of the people of the united states. the thrust of these treaties is to give away the canal. and that has  yet been decided. all that has been decided is this: if we give the canal away. we shall defend it under certain grant of rights. that is all that has been decided. we still have the main question to decide. this is a peripheral matter. and ancillary matterthe defense of the canal in the year 2000because the panama canal treaty provides for the defense up to the year 2000. we have  decided the main question. so i do  k. we are having a lot of elation here in the senate in certain quarters among 68 at least. or maybe  all 68. some voted for the treaty with misgivings. so i do  k how much elation there was. there was some dejection. i assure you. among the 32. but i do  k just how much elation there was among all 68 who voted for the treaty. i am hopeful. 
. recent events in the soviet union have provided a very sober background for our observance of captive nations week. the return of stalinesque show trials have indicated. in a most revealing way. the barbarism of what is called "justice" in the soviet union. the shcharanskys. the orlovs. the slepaks are only the tip of the iceberg. in latvia. lithuania. estonia. the ukraine. byelorussia and elsewhere in the soviet empire. the struggle for human rights is being waged by the true heroes of our time. the spirit of taras shevchenko in the ukraine lives in the person of valentyn moroz. in the baltic. the names of tonnisson. basanavicius and kalnins are etched indelibly on the ho scroll of human rights. captive nations week should be dedicated to these courageous souls who are on the front lines of the battle. the search for freedom and personal dignity has been a continuous one throughout history. it has  lost its capacity to inspire men and women in our own time. many of our ancestors experienced "captivity" in the form of religious. racial. or political subjugation by others. thus. we should have a special affinity for those in the soviet empire who suffer under the yoke of tyranny. captive nations week draws international attention to one of the most insidious forms of human rights violations that of a concerted assault on the social. cultural and political heritage of nations forcibly incorporated into an empire. here is such an assault more evident than in the situation that exists in the baltic nations. the proud history of latvia. lithuania and estonia belie any myths proffered by the soviet leaders about "peaceful socialist revolution." or "voluntary incorporation" in a program of russification. indeed. the baltic nations have sought to maintain their separate identity and their desire for selfdetermination even when faced with extensive soviet efforts to destroy their individual cultures including the attempt to impose russian as a "universal" language. actions designed to undermine the ethnic and social structures of the baltic nations have met with resistance both from within these countries and from many of the thousands of individuals in this country and elsewhere who proudly trace their origins to the baltic area. in the commonwealth of massachusetts thousands of citizens of lithuanian. latvian and estonian origin. while making outstanding contributions to their state and this country. have  forgotten their sacred obligation to the countries of their origins to speak out in defense of freedom and the right of individuals and nations to preserve their ethnic heritage. it is important that all americans appreciate and sustain the commitment of the captive nations to principles upon which our system of government is based and thrcugh which we enjoy the unprecedented degree of freedom that is ours. let us remember the plight of those who are unable to experience the liberties we enjoy. in the baltic nations. in the ukraine. in byelorussia. and elsewhere. the vast majority can neither express their views openly and publicly  can they receive undistorted information about the world. they hunger for the freedom of information that we take so readily for granted in this country. a further right they are deprived of is that of free and open communication and personal contact with loved ones. the helsinki accords supposedly guaranteed greater respect for this right. the soviet leaders have made a mockery of it by their actions. many families in the captive nations remain involuntarily separated. hope for their unity is. in most cases. a forlorn one. family unity. a seemingly inalienable right for us. is only a dream for these individuals. the kremlin appears resolute in its efforts to destroy those in the soviet empire who have the courage to sacrifice everything for their dream of individual and national freedom. we have a solemn obligation to be equally or more resolute in our efforts to indicate to those suffering repression in the captive nations that our commitment to their dream is an enduring one and that their sacrifice on the altar of freedom will  be in vain.*
our committee could  accept language that is so destructive of the rights and needs of poor women in america. that puts congress in the position of trying to make decisions only doctors can make. and that is such a retreat from the senates position on abortion.  can the senate simply adopt the 1978 compromise language in order to satisfy those who believe that doing so at this stage may avoid aher lengthy battle. for were the senate to take this language. the house likely would view such action  as an end to the struggle. but rather as a sign of weakening in the senates determination to protect poor women and as a starting point. a beginning. for extracting further compromises from the senate. the senate can accept a version of the hyde antiabortion amendment that is more restrictive than last years. rather. the senate must work for language that is responsive to the needs of lowincome women. only the "medically necessary" approach gives the senate the capability of persuading the house to move in this direction. which. i say to you. . the very minimum that was achieved between the house and the senate in conference after 51/2 months of deliberation. debate. and confrontation
there were many. many votes on the abortion amendment last year. let me say in addition that the house has sent over to the senate a continuing resolution. for defense appropriations and for hew. which has the identical abortion language that we ended up with last year. if we are ever to get even that language. we shall have to go into conference with the language which is presently in the senate bill. therefore. most respectfully. i urge the rejection of the amendment offered by the senator from south carolina. . i ask for the yeas and nays.
it is your intention to substitute the language that was contaned on abortion in the 1978 laborhew appropriations bill for the language that is contained in the senate version of the 1979 laborhew appropriations bill.
. that is what is most disturbing to me: the inconsistency and the apparent hypocrisy of the house in sending to the senate. in two instances. one on the defense appropriations bill and the other on the laborhew continuing resolution. the same abortion language which we agreed upon. we being the house and the senate. in 1978. and at the same time sending to the senate for approval the socalled hard language which the house and senate could  agree upon in 1978. . my question to my distinguished chairman is this: if we were to substitute the language that was contained in the defense appropriations bill. which we have just agreed to and passed-
why would it  be a better position for the senate to send to the house the same language that the senate had in its original bill which was so overwhelmingly supported by the senate. in other words. why does the senate  insist on its position and stand firm. send that back to the house. and let the house compromise with the senate and come up with the abortion language they have included in the defense appropriation bill.
i thank the distinguished senator from connecticut. and i thank my distinguished miity leader. i would like to make one more statement. this is already in the boston globe. this is the headline that is already on the street. it could  possibly have been there had there  been a leak to the paper. it is already on the street. it is being read : "senator brookes prober resigns"-and i do  k what else the story says. i have  had time to read it. but that. obviously. indicates a little of what i am talking about. i make charge against a member of that committee. and i do  k the staff of the committee. but obviously it is  secret. it is  one that would protect the rights of an individual. when i was an attorney general and we had a grand jury. we did everything we could to protect the rights of people. inent people. people who had  been tried for anything. there were leaks out of our grand juries. and that is the way it should be in our ethics committee. otherwise. what i am saying to my colleagues is that anybody could make any statement about any one of us. at any time. it would then become the subject of inquiry by the ethics committee. and leaks could be put out such as this. and conceivably it could go all over the country. some of you have already been victimized by similar circumstances. need i say more. i think . i thank the chair.
.  that h. r. 8901. the district of columbia transit bill. has been rescheduled for consideration next wednesday. i want to discuss certain further points with reference to h. r. 10871. which i intend to offer as a substitute for h. r. 8901. if that becomes possible under the parliamentary situation. i want to emphasize that it is entirely possible that the only vote by the house may well be confined to acceptance or rejection of the committee substitute. of course. if the committee substitute should be rejected. it would be possible to seek recognition to offer h. r. 10871 as a substitute. however. i want to add that i have also asked the advice of the house parliamentarian as to whether h. r. 10871 could be incorporated in a motion to recommit and he has advised me that this can be done. while i do understand that the simple motion to recommit to the committee might be offered. in view of the time element involved and of all the circumstances. personally. i do  believe that public interest would be served by such a recommital. consequently. i hope that it will be possible to present the single fundamental issue of whether the charter and franchise of the capital transit co. which was revoked last august by the congress shall be returned to that company. under its present control. or an interim authority can be created to carry on the efforts of the district authorities to locate competent private operators prior to august 15. 1959. i hope it is clear by  that public ownership. as such. is  a real issue. title iii. section 301. section 303. and section 305  only direct a continued effort toward such a sale but would terminate the existence of the interim authority upon that sale and. most important. would require the board of directors of that authority to report to congress within 15 days of june 15. 1958. all the steps taken to bring about such a sale and the reasons for failure to make such a sale. if e occurs by june 15. 1958. therefore. congress would retain full and complete authority after the receipt of such a report to pass any legislation it then considers necessary and proper. only if congress did  act upon such a report would the permanent authority come into being. at this point i want to include a brief memorandum of references i have prepared in order to reply to the inquiries i have received: because of the increasing number of inquiries i have been receiving with reference to this legislation i have prepared this brief memorandum of references. thinking it may be convenient for those who are interested in this legislation. 1. the miity views i filed on april 27 is report 2034. part 2. 2. the socalled interim transit bill. which i hope to be able to offer on the floor. is house resolution 10871. 3. the following citations to the congressional record to and including may 9 may be of some interest and possible value. (a) may 2. page 7325. (b) may 7. page 7592. (c) may 7. page 7646. (d) may 9. page 7857. 4. the following citations are to references to comments as to this legislation. although there may have been other references which have  come to my attention: (a) congressman hayworth. may 2. appendix of the daily record. page a3510. (b) congressman macdonald. may 8. page (c) congressman macdonald. may 9. page several possible amendments to h. r. 10871 have been suggested to me. i have  had an opportunity yet to study them as i intend to do over this weekend. however. it seems to me that some of them are constructive and might improve h. r. 10871. if it becomes possible to offer that bill as a substitute. therefore. i believe it would be useful to mention them briefly at this time. the first would be an amendment to insure that. in acquiring any specific items of real or tangible personal property by eminent domain. the interim authority could  take less than the entire interest in such items of property vested in the owner. the second would make it clear that the interim authority would  have the right to take by eminent domain both the assets represented by the capital stock of the capital transit co. and also the capital stock itself. the third would specify more clearly the employment rights and benefits the employees of the company would have in the event they were transferred to the interim authority. the fourth would provide that all present career employees of the capital transit co. would have an opportunity to retain their positions under the interim authority. i hope to be able to discuss these. and any other amendments which may be suggested to me. on monday or tuesday of next week and to place in the record the precise language of any such amendments as i would feel justified in offering or supporting.
i think that is made clear by the terms of article 27 defining the voting powers. . referring again to the "taxation without representation" provision. we find that article 44 calling for participation in the decisions of the security council by any member that is to provide armed forces. does  contemplate the participation in those decisions by members merely supplying facilities. including rights of passage. necessary for the purpose of maintaining international peace and security.
i suppose "rights of passage" would refer to a moving operation. but i think the other language would be sufficient to cover occupation: special agreement or agreements. armed forces. assistancewhich is rather broadand facilitieswhich also is rather broadincluding rights of passage. therefore. "facilities" must include more than "rights of passage." and must include whatever the word "facilities" may mean. and that includes a great deal.
. the question asked by the senator from south dakota is a very proper one. and i shall be very glad to attempt to answer it. as i said earlier. in answer to aher question asked by the senator from south dakota. my amendment would operate on both sections of the proposed substitute amendment. in respect to the part of the amendment under which. if the state so directed. its electoral vote would be cast and counted in the way that its votes for members of congress are cast and counted. my amendment would operate in this way: the states electoral votes would be reduced in the same proportion as that which the total vote cast in the state would bear to the total number of persons of voting age in the state. that would be true both in regard to the electors for the state at large and the electors for each congressional district. in that way. an elector might cast a fractional electoral vote. and. as under the amendment proposed originally and reported by the committee. and likewise under the substitute supported by the senator from south dakota. fractions of less than 1.000 would be omitted.
mr. presi.dent. i think my amendment would have exactly the reverse effect. it is intended to encourage. and it would encourage. people to vote. whereas they  feel reason to voteas in the oneparty states. my amendment would have a very encouraging effect on voting. because it would be to the advantage of everyone in every state to vote. and it would be to the advantage of both parties in every state to encourage all people of voting age to vote.
i agree thoroughly with the senator from oklahoma and concur fully in what he has said with reference to his confidence in the courts. the point is that we are  writing a law for the courts to apply and to interpret. the purpose of the colloquy is to attempt to define more clearlyat least that is the thought of the senator from new jersey in connection with this colloquythe meaning of the law and the nature of the substantive rights which are being created. for which drastic remedies are being provided. therefore i should like to press just a little further the question of the renewal of franchise. is it necessary that a failure to renew be coupled with intimidation. coercion. or threats of that kind. in order to have a failure to renew create a cause of action under the bill. or would mere failure to renew. without any evidence of coercion or intimidation. or such threats. be sufficient to give rise to a cause of action.
. i wish to join my colleagues in expressing my appreciation to the senator from illis for speaking as he has this aftern. as i think almost everyone ks. it had  been the intention of those of us who believe in this proposed legislation to participate in the discussion of the pending motion or to engage in extended debate upon the merits of the legislation. yet. because of the debate by those in opposition to the bill has been on its merits. it has seemed to me. as it has to the senator from illis. that. at least in the beginning. this discussion by the proponents of the bill was very much in order. the fact that there has  been more of it on our side is due solely to the reason i have set forth. i am sure the overwhelming majority of the members of this body. as well as of the other body of congress. feel as the senator does. i want to make one special point in relation to the remarks of the senator from illis. particularly the concluding portion of his remarks. contrary to the impression which has perhaps been created by those in opposition to the proposed legislation. that there was some kind of harm intended to american citizens by those who support the bill. and an intent to oppress them. the real situation is that we are attempting. in all humility and with sense of superiority on our part. but in a desire to be helpful. to make it possible for millions of citizens who for so long have been held in an inferior status to begin to be fullfladged citizens and americans. what we are talking about is an effort to stop certain persons from preventing those citizens from exercising their rights as americans. i wish to thank the senator from illis for pointing out that it is a part of the long process of history. by which we have progressed from intolerable conditions. so far as humanity is concerned. to conditions somewhat more tolerable. and that it is time for us to take a step to remove this stain upon the escutcheon of our country. i particularly desire to thank the senator for making it possible for those in favor of this proposed legislation to introduce into the record some of the reasons why we feel so deeply about it.
let me state. first. that while i feel that the substitute offered by the senator from kentucky is perhaps less than i believe ought to be included in part iii. nevertheless i am most grateful for his thoughtful and deeply sincere effort to improve this particular piece of legislation. i believe that to the extent he deals with this area he has made some very useful suggestions. indeed. i have a high regard for the sincerity of colleagues who feel otherwise than i do on this question. however. it seems to me that it is time to make the point again that we are  here for the purpose of depriving people of rights. the object is to give people rights which they do   have. i ask the senatorand i k what his answer will beif he does  believe that. although in his view part iii is  all it should be at the present time. there is still a need for legislation on this subject. because individuals are being deprived of rights under existing law. in spite of court orders issued for the purpose of protecting them in those rights. i wonder if the senator will  tell this body about 1 or 2 of the instances which he has in mind on the question of rights of which people have been deprived. and if he will relate some of the circumstances. so that we can obtain a little better picture than the one which has heretofore been given to this body and to the world. of people being deprived of constitutional rights. let us have an illustration or two of the kind of rights of which people have been deprived. and which we are seeking to secure for them by the proposed legislation.
i am very grateful to the senator from new york. who has been a leader in the fight for civil rights both in the senate and throughout his career. i may say that there is difference. under our american custom and under our american form of democracy. between the various rights of citizenhip guaranteed by the constitution. the answer is obvious that these rights are all on a parity and all of equal importance. as the senior senator from oregon stated yesterday. e can really be enforced or enjoyed without all of them being enforced and enjoyed.
i agree that the senator from new york has correctly stated. as i understand them. the views which the vice president expressed so well on this point at the opening of the last session of congress. i think the senator from new york .is undoubtedly right as to the intent of the proponents of the resolution. because it seems to me that their intention undoubtedly is that the rules shall continue on and on and on. forever. unless they are changed. as their language reads in the resolution. "as provided in these rules."-that is. in the rules themselves. based upon that view. i shall. as i said before. move to strike the whole section. because it is  in accordance with my view as to the way the rules of the senate should remain in existence. whether or  this is so. the amendment of the senator from new york must be made. because as a matter affecting the dignity of the senate and the common sense of the situation. for the senate to incorporate into its rules something which can be defended upon constitutional grounds and which can have any effect. would be an utterly wrong action. i do  have any doubt. even if this -provision should  be changed. and the .resolution of the senator from texas should be adopted without any change. that at the beginning of a new session it would be in order for senators to propose amendments to the rules of the senate or to propose new rules. there is hing the senate can do which can change the constitutional rights of the next senate. it is the height of absurdity for us to purport to bind the next senate. the senator from new york is right in attempting to strike the language which his amendment would strike from the resolution.
. i hope the smokescreen. the red herring. will  effectively be drawn across the trail along which we must pass. and will  be a barrier or a block to the taking of the strong. concerted. bipartisan action which is necessary. i hope that members on the democratic side will be afraid to join with us. as they joined with us in 1957. simply because in this situation some persons attempt to raise an issue of partisan advantage. of course we understand the difficulties which are faced in various regions of the country and the difficulty the opposite party has. we have sympathy in that connection. to the point that it is proper. but  to the point that we join in smothering the taking of action on civil rights. again i wish to commend the senator from new york. who all his life has been a partisan of only one aspect of this matter. namely. the rights of the miity. who have so long suffered under this stain which has pervaded american life
in short. i have asked that the senate give unanimous consent to have the matter considered then as if it were considered at the beginning of a new congress. and with rights waived. but the majority leader refused to go along with me in presenting such a request to the senate. however. it seems to me that unless that is done. the senate will be deliberately foreclosing itself from any chance to have uninhibited consideration of this matter. therefore. i ask unanimous consentand i may say that i do this with the kledge of the majority leader-
as i said earlier today. the senator from new york is certainly primus inter pares in this matter. as he is in this body as a whole. as a former active member of the bar of which he is so distinguished a member. i wish to say that his concise and incisive legal argument arouses in me a great deal of talgia for the days when i used to be an active member of that bar. he has made a great contribution here. in terms of the legality and constitutionality of the proposed legislation. and his outstanding address could be read with great benefit by all senators who have expressed views on this precise questionand i k some of them have been very honest views. he has exposed and laid bare the real issue of constitutionality. and it seems to me that. upon reflection. all senators whose doubts are really based on the constitutional question can scarcely fail to have their minds on that matter changed by reading the succinct argument on that score which he has presented today. if i may be indulged for a moment more.  only has one over the years been a stronger fighter for the civil rights of americans. but also one has been more aware of what we are really about in this fight. what we are really about is trying to preserve america. trying to preserve democracy. there are abroad today. as there have always been abroad in the world. forces that could destroy us. america does  exist by accident as an organized society of decent people. in which decent institutions are allowed to govern relations among the people. it exists because we have developed over the years that kind of regard for each other. and have exhibited it in practice. that makes it tolerable for people to get along with each other. when. as is true in america today great numbers of citizens are subjected to humiliation. are deprived of their rights or are forced to live as secondclass citizens--and i dislike to use a trite expression. but it is so truewe can expect them to let this present land in which we live continue to be that kind of land. that is what we are talking about. we are  making partisan speeches. there are only a few statesnew york is one. new jersey is aher. michigan is aherwhere this problem brings itself to the fore as strongly as it does there. i am  surprised that citizens and representatives and senators from states where this problem may  exist in the open forum. as it does in my state and the state of the senator from new york. and the states of a number of other senators. do  realize the great reasons for the problem. we realize that something must be done about the problem. and  merely to satisfy some political expediency. the point is that in the states where it is a problem. it has meaning and has already shown some ugly possibilities. we have the right. i think. to talk about it. and have the right to be listened to. i have been distressed in this recent debate. and in other debates in years past. by the tendency of so many persons to regard this procedure as purely a political exercise. it is more than that. it involves the greatest american issue of our time. and also involves the greatest danger to this land of ours. i thank the senator for his contribution today. which is merely cumulative of the tremendous efforts and the most significant ones he has made over the years.
. reserving the right to object. i hope a modification of the request will be made. i suggest that the request be accompanied by the qualification heretofore adopted in regard to all matters other than adoption of the rules. namely. that the request include a provision that this will  prejudice any of the rights of senators who believe it important that the first order of business be the consideration of the senate rules.
i do  wish to object to the introduction of the joint resolution. i think i favor it. i am concerned that we should  depart from the practice we have followed so far of objecting to other business than the consideration of the rules of the senate unless there be a unanimousconsent agreement that doing so will  prejudice the rights of those of us who wish to have the matter considered as if it were done as the first business of the senate. therefore. if the senator from rhode island is willing. i should be happy to ask unanimous consent that he may proceed on that basis.
 of the united states so clearly indicated in his opinion. we have the right by a simple majority to adopt rules. and to take all other action necessary to make that action effective. including the right to close debate by majority vote. that is the question which is at the bottom of all this discussion. and that is why those who oppose us attempt to maneuver us into a position where we shall have lost the right to do what we seek to do. we are  trying to take arbitrary action. this is  an attempt to obstruct the activities of this legislative body. we who are in favor of a change in the rules of the senate in this regard believe that we are the ones who wish to make the senate an effective instrument of government. which it has often  been in the past. when we insist upon preserving our rights to make changes at the beginning of a congress. that is the reason. and everyone ks it. apparently. however. it must be stated. as so many thingsmust be stated. again and again and again. so long as the present cloture rule remains unchanged. the senate is condemned to "trial by ordeal" on any issue at the option of a determined miity. in the law. trial by ordeal was abandoned many years ago. today we wonder how it. could ever have been considered an appropriate test of truth or merit. yet that is essentially the test that rule xxii requires. the majority leader has sought to mitigate it by keeping the senate in session during regular hours rather than in continuous session. that does mitigate the physical burden. but it is in sense a cure for the filibuster. indeed. in one sense it strengthens the hold of the rule by making it easier to flilbuster. i believe i said earlier this aftern that. in my opinion. the protection of the rights of miities in this country or in any society depends upon the understanding of all people. and certainly of the majority. that miity rights are important and are a restraint upon the majority. this is. and has been. the strength of our republicthe sense of decency and of the importance of individual rights. including civil rights and the aspect of them which underlies this entire debate. to advert to a suggestion made a moment ago by the senator from th carolina . i can conceive of a situation.in which a majority of the senate would need to be saved by onethird of the senate from destroying the republic.
i am happy to discuss that point because it is directly related to the subject i have been discussing. i believe there are various possibilities. some of us believe that the senate should adopt new rules at the beginning of each congress. others are content to believe that. as with certain other aspects of our senate functions. the rules of the senate continue and that they may be changed by a majority vote at the beginning of a congress. others feel that by acquiescence we adopt the rules over and over again. it does  matter which contention is adopted. because we feel very strongly that if we act at the beginning of a session we have a right by a majority vote to change the rules. therefore we do  object to proceeding. so long as we have a right to adopt new rules. adopt some rules with changes. and some without changes. therefore. we do  object to proceeding. so far as we can. under the precedents of the senate. and under the rules as they have existed in previous senates. so long as our rights as a majority to adopt new rules. and to take the necessary action to make those rights effective. are  prejudiced. we do  arbitrarily object to everything. we are  making an arbitrary selection of the rules that we want to abide by. the only rules that we do  want to accept are those which prevent a majority in the senate from acting effectively at the beginning of a congress to change the rules of the senate.
there is one rule that i believe all of us would agree we could  acquiesce in. and which would seriously affect our rights as a majority. and that is the rule which requires a twothirds votl to close debate. that is one rule. there may be others. i do  want. by  mentioning others. to exclude the possibility that there may be others. however. in the generality of the rules which govern our relations with each other. our rights. and the comity of members. depend  only on the rules in the rulebook but also on the necessities of senators engaged in civilized discourse in a parliamentary body.
. i myself do  regard rules written on paper. the rules of the senate. important as they are. as being the real bulwark of the rights of the miity. whether they be the miity of our citizens or of .a particular group. racial or otherwise. or of the states. i regard the great bulwark of those rights as the basic understanding of the american people. including members of this body. that we can have a civilized society unless the rights of miities are respected. so i do  believe that technical procedural rulesand i do  minimize their importance or valueare the ultimate protection of the rights of individuals or in the maintenance and sustaining of the structure of our society.
earlier this aftern. during the address by the senator from louisiana . he and the senator from mississippi engaged in a colloquy raising some question as to the propriety. perhaps. or consistency. of members of the senate who. having voted for the amendment of rule xxi in 1959.  contend that in part that rule is unconstitutional and  binding. the part that is referred to as  binding is the section of the change then made which states that the rules shall continue until changed as provided in the rules. i call to the attention of senators. and wish to have it made a part of the record. that this question was raised specifically back in 1959 at the beginning of the session. and was the subject of two amendments. the debate and the disposition of the amendments appear in the 1. beginning at page 446. and continuing through page 453. the senator from new york offered an amendment to strike a portion of that restriction. and when that failed. i offered an amendment to strike the whole sentence. i want to indicate what was said. as volume 105. part 1. on page 449. during my discussion of the amendment of the senator from new york. consideration of which preceded consideration of my amendment. i said: i do  have any doubt. even if this provision should  be changed. and the resolution of the senator from texas should be adopted without any change. that at the beginning of a new session it would be in order for senators to propose amendments to the rules of the senate or to propose new rules. there is hing the senate can do which can change the constitutional rights of the next senate. it is the height of absurdity for us to purport to bind the next senate. the senator from new york is right in attempting to strike the language which his amendment would strike from the resolution. as i said a little earlier on that same page. i would move to strikeas i later did-"the whole section. because it is  in accordance with my view as to the way the rules of the senate. should remain in existence. "whether or  this is so. the amendment of the senator from new york must be made. because as a matter affecting the dignity of the senate and the commonsense of the situation. for the senate to incorporate into its rules something which. can be defended upon constitutional grounds and which can have any effect"-i emphasize that"would be an utterly wrong action." some members of the senate who were concerned about this particular pat of the johnson resolution voted against the resolution on that ground. others of us. though disagreeing with that portion of the resolution. nevertheless voted for it because we believed it would make some slight improvement in the situation. and we believed this restriction would have effect on the constitutional provision. so. while i am sorry it is in there. and i tried to get it out. nevertheless it is without effect insofar as concerns its binding effect on the power of a majority of the senate of the united states. at the beginning of each new session. to adopt new rules and to take any action necessary to make effective that right. i have hing further to say
i wish to associate myself with the senator from pennsylvania and the senator from new york on the substantive point they have made. i think it is true that we all recognize that under the precedents of the senate and under the rules of the senate. the vice president is within his rights to. and under the precedents properly does. submit constitutional questions to the senate. i think the point has been made very tellingly by both the colleagues whom i have mentioned that there will come a time when the constitutional responsibility of the vice president will be to do more than this. i do  presume to suggest to the vice president when that time will arise. but it is quite true that he is  merely a figurehead. he is a constitutional officer and is constitutionally the presiding officer of this body. and if a filibuster can prevent this body from acting through a majority on a constitutional question. then i suggest very. very definitely that the two senators from new york and pennsylvania are utterly correct in saying that the vice president does share a responsibility to exercise all powers he may have in whatever way and at whatever time. of course. seems to him to be the most appropriatebut he can avoid itto help the senate come to a conclusion which will permit a majority of senators to exercise their constitutional function.
 and the congress of the steps necessary to assure all americans of the rights to which each of us. whatever our race. color. or religion. is entitled under the constitution. the response to our action has been most encouraging. clearly there is widespread awareness of the need for legislation. for too long the congress has put off facing up to its responsibilities in this field. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record an editorial from the new york times of april 2. 1963. entitled "reminder on civil rights." an editorial from the newark evening news of march 29. 1963. entitled "up the hill again." and an editorial entitled "politics and promises" from the washington post of april 1. 1963.
there could be others. i do  wish to quibble about this. but i wish to make clear that the words and provisions of section 601 and the substantive rights established and stated in that section are  limited by the limiting words of section 602. section 602 says that when a department or agency of the governmentand i think the senator was correct. earlier. when he made this careful distinctionin dealing with the kinds of programs which are referred to in section 602. attempts to prevent the discrimination. or what. the department must follow this procedure. i agree. my only point is that i do  want my embracement of this bill to be construed as indicating that i believe that the substantive rights of an individual. as they may exist under the constitution. or as they may be stated in section 601. are limited in any degree whatsoever.
. before i leave the point tonight. i wish to say that i thoroughly agree with the senator from minnesota and the senator from mississippi that the question should be given careful scrutiny by all of us. we should have misunderstanding. before we get through. what we are talking about. and what the effect of the language is. for myself. i would  be satisfied if this language in 602 is intended to limit existing rights of individuals under the constitution. or to limit the rights expressed in section 601 in any substantive sense. i believe that section 602 is intended to do what it really does. federal departments or agencies with authority of disburse loans. grants. or to make contracts. in order to eliminate discrimination in programs in which those contracts. loans. or grants are involved. must proceed in a fashion stated. with that i agree. that is the intent. however. it is  intended to limit the rights of individuals. if they have any way of enforcing their rights apart -from the provisions of the bill. by way of suit or any other procedure. the provision of the bill is  intended to cut down any rights that exist.
i believe the senator from minnesota has already agreed. but i think we should make it clear. so that we understand each other. that the rights of the president of the united states are  cut down. either.
the senator from vermont is a reasonable man. whose warmth and interest in his fellow man has been demonstrated so often that it does  need to be mentioned. yet once in a while we should pay tribute to him. whom we all take for granted in the utter decency of his life and service to his country. he ks that what we are talking about is the effort to write a bill which does  raise unnecessary hackles. one of the unnecessary hackles is the attempt to avoid by exemption all religious societies which are  guilty of discrimination of any sort on the grounds of color. nevertheless. we are concerned that they might  be permitted to continue employment for their purposes. of only members of their particular faith. for the strengthening. preservation. and continuation of their faith. their very existence. perhaps. depends upon their being able to do so. i do  believe this is an evil which we can attempt to reach in the bill. i do  like to use a bad word in regard to anything that might have been said by the able senator from vermont. but i believe we are quibbling. because this is  really an effort to draw a perfect bill. this is an effort to draw the best bill possible. in dealing fairly and honestly with this great american problemthis great american dilemma. as it has been called. aher point raised by the distinguished senator from vermontand i believe senators will agree with him. and will do something about itis the exclusion of atheists. discrimination against negroes on the grounds that they are atheists. of course. it is unconstitutional. anyway. it has effect. it is an inartistic element in the bill. and should be eliminated. i do  believe there will be great difficulty eliminating it. but even if. it should  come out. it will have effect and is reason to be against the bill. except insofar as it points up the need to perfect it if we wish to do so. the senator raises a question as to exclusion of the united states as an employer in state agencies. first. as to cx--574 the united states. the reason why the united states and its agencies are excluded is that the united states and its agencies are already covered by an operating policy of discrimination more effective than the bill would make applicable. the rights of an employee of the united states and prospective employees under civil service regulations. and regulations of all the agencies. are  fuller and more complete than the terms of the bill. we do  wish to disturb the pattern. so far as state agencies are concerned. i k of reason for this. except an effort properly to abide by the federal system and the distinction between states and their sovereignty and u.s. power. i believe. therefore. that this is justifiable for the purposes of this title. i believe it is true that we do  want to get into unnecessary difficulties. either in passage of the bill or in administration of the law. so far as the senator is concerned about exclusion of employers of fewer than 25 individuals. this is a practical matter. there are reasons for doing it. it is a new program. we are experimenting with it. personally. i should like to see its application to the employer of one person. that is my own view. i recognize that this is a new program. and that there is fear of an encroaching federal bureaucracy. it is a very honest fear on the part of many people. and we are taking it into account. also the newness of the program. we shall be doing it on an experimental basis. when we put this section into effect. this is  an example of provisions applicable for all time. but for the present time. it is  an unreasonable distinction to make. i wish to emphasize the point which i made at the outset of these brief commentsand i am grateful to the senator from vermont for permitting me to make them. when i believe they will be fresh in peoples minds. we are  trying to override commonsense. traditional values. traditional practices. or rights. or anything else. we are completely willing to consider all reasonable suggestionsand the senator from vermont hardly ever makes anything elsefor the improvement of the bill and the protection of the rights of americans and an adjustment of the great problems with which our society is faced. including the preservation of our federal system. but we are determined that at last we shall make a beginning toward eliminating the stain of discrimination on the grounds of race. color. or religion from american life. recognizing the fact that the federal government has a responsibility in this area. which it has evaded for 100 years. i thank the senator.
the senator is always most thoughtful and kind and that upon conclusion of my brief remarks as to what went on prior to the vote he may regain the floor. without it being counted as a second speech against him. and with all the rights as though my remarks had  been made.
. i thank the senator from florida. i take this time to say very simply and with the greatest conviction and complete sincerity that i think we have witnessed within the last 15 or 20 minutes one of the roughest. and most unfair exhibitions of the overriding of an individual senators rights and miity rights by the majority. by the presiding officer. by the parliamentarian. and by the majority leader. the senate rules are supposed to be the ultimate in perfection for the protection of the rights of individual senators elected by sovereign states to represent them in the u.s. senate. we hear from time to time. almost ad nauseam. about the glories of an individual senators rights in this body. we have found that this is true only when they happen to coincide with the wishes of the majority. as we have seen from time to time. even the gentlest and the most magnanimous man. such as our majority leader. in succumbing to what he conceives. i assume. to be the political needs of a certain situation. turns into a tyrant. and the rules do  protect senators. i suggest that what happened  be allowed to be regarded as a precedent. it would be most unfortunate. i suggest that the parliamentarian be asked to demonstrate by a statement. which the presiding officer may make. that this is  possible under the senate rules. if the fault is in the way in which the senator from new jersey attempted to protect his rights. he should be told and advised. because this should  happen to any senator in the future of the senate. i thank the senator from florida.
. first. let me say how much. as a member of this body. i appreciate the clear exposition and stirring statement just made by the senator from pennsylvania. it has been my pleasure personally to be associated with him in the development of and the defense of title vii. i share with him the wish that we had been able to strengthen the house bill in this respect rather than perhaps in some respects weakening it. that seemed  advisable. nevertheless. we have title vii in the form of the leadership amendments. which on the whole i believe. will do a very effective job as they stand . but i must say that they can be in any respect weakened without almost destroying any value whatever that they may have. the senator from pennsylvania has referred to remarks which he made and remarks which i made when this matter. in the form of the house version of the bill. was before us. inasmuch as the senator from pennsylvania has  repeated the remarks he made at that time. i shall  repeat the remarks i made then. either. clearly. under the mechanics of the bill in the form with which the leadership is concerned. more concern or more deference could  be given to the rights of the states. for example. the federal agency which would be able to mediate in this connection could  consider taking any action for 2 months. if there were any state machinery at all. the states will be given that much time in which to deal with complaints. only when the states have colorable claim to give consideration to such matters. can they be considered by the federal government in the time specified. and. of course. that amount of time is to be doubled in the first year. so it is very difficult. in my opinion. for anyone to claim that anyone will be harassed under the provisions of the billeven if we assume that some one of the enforcement officials might be overly zealous. employer of less than 100 employees would be affected the first year. the next year. the limit would be 75. the next year. the limit would be 50. and the next year. the limit would be 25. and even then there would be the requirement in regard to affecting commerce. and also the other requirements of the bill. all of them would have to be met. so it is clear that the bill could  be used to harass anyone. the provision which struck out the right of litigation by the federal commission is important in this regard. such a suit can be brought only by the attorney general. an official subject to political pressures--although i do  use that term in an unfavorable sense. but if a section of the country felt it was being persecuted. it would have this remedy. because. so far as the courts are concerned. the enforcement will rest in a political official. the attorney general. so there could be claim of harassment. inasmuch as the enforcement provision has been whittled down to the minimum. including the requirements in regard to the production of books and documents. every consideration is to be given to the rights of the individual. and attempt at harassment is to be made.
 the passage at long last of an effective civil rights bill is imminent. most senators look forward to that historical event with a sense of real satisfaction. the senate as a whole has. i believe. a sense of achievement after coming to grips with a great moral issue. we who have struggled and worked down through the years for such legislation share a special feeling of anticipation with regard to its enactment. we are mindful. however. that its achievement is. in the larger sense. the achievement of the negroes themselves and of millions of americans. both negroes and whites. who. individually and through their churches. temples. and community. social. and civic organizations. gave compelling voice to the conscience of the country. the passage of the legislation will help to remove a stain on that conscience. hing can wipe out the wrongs committed. the injustices inflicted. the denial of rights that hilve occurred over the past hundred years. but the approval of the bill can and will. i hope. mark a turning point looking toward the day when every american can traverse the length and breadth of the land with confidence that his rights as a citizen. his dignity as a human being. will be respected. the passage of the bill will  be a cureall.  are the provisions of the bill revolutionary. indeed. in many states. such as my own state of new jersey. far broader protection with regard to public accommodations and employment. to mention only two areas. is already on the statute books. but the federal legislation is. etheless. an important. indeed essential. step. it signifies. i hope. a renewed dedication to the ideals which guided the founding of this nation and which remain the surest guide to the domestic tranquillity and the flowering of freedom in the nation.
i think there is some question as to whether this may or may  be within the constitutional power so far as it relates to service heretofore rendered and rights already accrued. i do  really have any doubt but that this would  be separable. or that service hereafter rendered and rights for services hereafter rendered would be constitutional. the senator from pennsylvania said that it goes back to alger hiss. i suggest that it goes back to at least a generation before that. i remember as a young man in new york when gover roosevelt required that public employees who failed to waive immunity before grand juries in regard to their official acts would have to leave the public service. and jimmy walker was one of those. and this is how it happened. it is a direct precedent. i think. for the action which we seek to take here. i do  think it really has anything to do with punishing a person. i think this has to do with the senates proper efforts to police itself and its employees. i wish that the committee on rules and administration had exhibited the kind of energy and diligence in the matter still before italthough it claims  to have finishedthat the senator from delaware exhibited in regard to giving us the tools with which to do the job.
of course. the senator from oregon has never been taken off his feet. that was a misstatement. so long as he can talk. he can hold the floor. as any senator can. but as soon as he loses the floor. he is subject to having the matter in which he is deeply interested eliminated entirely for the remainder of the session. this is a very bad proposal. it is an illustration of the need for rules changes.  only to make the institution of the senate more vigorous and more able to act against a determined miity. but also to protect the legitimate rights of even a single senator.
the question we must  get away from is whether or  the majority of the people have a right to take away an inalienable right given to even one citizen. that is the key to this situation. the senator has suggested that he would  favor such an action in a case involving the constitutional rights of individuals as set forth in the bill of rights. i k he would .  would i. he distinguishes those rights. however. from such rights as the right to have equal representation in the state legislatures of the several states. however decided by the supreme court under the constitution itself. we are up against a simple difference of opinion. if i may dispose of one of the arguments in favor of this amendment. namely. that there is a widespread demand for iti. myself. do  have evidence of widespread demand for itthat 27. or 47 of the legislatures want to have change at all. my reply is that we can expect them to vote themselves out of existence. that evidence is hing at all except that the legislators who took this position feel this way personally. i suggest that while they have other motives in many cases. the motive of desiring to maintain themselves in their positions is  a factor without some importance. the real issue here is. shall less than a majority be able to control majority action in the state legislatures. i k this has happened in new jersey. i k it has happened in adjoining states with whose history i am familiar. i assume it has happened everywhere. i am certain that one of the chief reasons why the states have  been able to meet the problems of the 20th century is the fact that malapportionment has  permitted the state legislatures to represent the great majority of the population. who are  represented in any adequate way. i suggest this. and then i shall concludeand i think i have tested the strength as well as the patience of my colleague-
. the continuing efforts of the soviet government to bring about the cultural annihilation of 3 million jews within their own borders have been of grave and growing concern to americans of all creeds. less than a year ago we in the senate voted unanimously to condemn the systematic denial. of equal rights to soviet jews by their government. but so long as that campaign continues americans must continue to raise their voices in protest. it is with some pride. therefore. that i call to the senates attention two such protests by citizens of my own state. earlier this week assemblyman joseph c. woodcock. jr.. of bergen county introduced in the new jersey state assembly a resolution urging the soviet government to accord the same cultural. educational. and religious rights to jews as are permitted to other ethnic groups in the soviet union. the timeliness of his action is underscored by the approach of the passover holiday. and what passover will mean this year to those americans who are most deeply affected by the plight of soviet jewry has been described in moving fashion by aher distinguished citizen of new jerseymrs. adolf robison of west englewood.. a longtime teacher and active businesswoman. ann robison has nevertheless found time to take a leading role in a great number of cultural and civic undertakings. i ask unanimous consent that mrs. robisons article. published in the jewish standard of jersey city. be printed at this point in the record.
. there is a very large question here. the balance of the right of privacy. the right of selfexpression. and freedom of speech is something we are dealing with and should deal with in a very careful way. would the senator from new york agree in substance that what we come down to here is the committees view that the right to close the door to a particular sender is absolute on the part of the home owner or addressee.
. in support of that request that if unanimousconsent agreements to vote at a particular time or to take any other action in the senate is to be used to entrap people who in good faith agree to them to further the business of the senate. then it will be difficult. indeed. to get unanimousconsent agreements in the future. the business of the senate will be delayed far more than it would be by consenting to a modification everyone understands of our amendment which will in way hurt the bill. but which will speed the processes of action on the bill. we will offer the modified amendment as a separate measure later. and i would hope that the senator from mississippi and his colleagues on the committee would  allow a technicality to permit them to deny us the ordinary rights of senators to modify amendments once they are offered.
. i urge the senator to reconsider his unfortunate stand on the ruling of the parliamentarian that. by an accommodation which we made voluntarily. we will in effect have lost the mal rights of members of the senate to modify their amendments and their suggestions. to meet what in the course of debate has been developed as a legitimate reason. in the minds of many senators. to object to the particular proposal they are making. it seems to me that every consideration of present decency. of present accommodation among members of this body. and the chance of using the device of unanimousconsent czreements for votes at times certain in the future are at stake here.
. several days ago. on april 5. the oldest russianlanguage daily newspaper in the world had its 60th birthday anniversary. but this birthday was  celebrated. at least publicly. in moscow or leningrad. because the oldest russianlanguage daily in the world is in new york city. the oye russkoye slovo. which means "new russian word." is a symbol of two vital aspects of american life: freedom of expression and the cultural diversity that has made our culture rich. lively. and great. i should like to wish this fine newspaper "happy birthday". and a continued and successful publishing career.
. i am glad to join the senator from new york in cosponsoring the amendment to h.r. 17123 which would end the naval bombardment of culebra island. i urge the adoption of the amendment. although this island is tiny and its inhabitants few in number. the culebrans are american citizens and entitled to protection and rights which are  abridged by distance or size of population. since culebra is a part of the atlantic fleets principal gunnery range. it can only be a matter of time before an inaccurate shell adds to the four serious injuries which have been reported on culebra. just this year the authoritative armed forces journal documented instances of bombs dropping as close as 400 yards to a dwelling. and in may three mortar shells were reported landing within 200 yards of children playing on the beach. alternatives to the use of an inhabited island for target practice certainly must exist. and should be thoroughly explored. as only one example. i understand that the gover of puerto rico. hon. luis ferre. has suggested the navys use of four uninhabited islands which are available in the same area. i strongly urge that the senate committee on armed services. in its consideration of the navys proposal to double its land holdings on culebra. uphold the rights of its residents and act to end the jeopardy in which they live.
. i wish to briefly but emphatically second everything said by the majority leader. by the chairman of the committee on foreign relations. and the distinguished senator from missouri. it is absolutely correct that the only real stumbling block to agreement in the foreign military sales conference was the cooperchurch amendment. . as the senator from arkansas has pointed out. the general issue raised by the cooperchurch amendment has been resolved reasonably satisfactorily in other legislation passed by the senate. yet we are still asked  to try to work out a similar kind of solution to the military sales impasse. such a solution would preserve the rights of all members of the senate and maintain the integrity of the legislative committees. the chairman of the foreign relations committee is reflecting my views when he proposes reconvening the military sales conference. i believe he speaks for all of us on the conference. and on the committee on foreign relations. we stand ready tonight or at any time to return to work in order to find a solution to this dispute with the house. i plan to vote in favor of the majority leaders motion which insures that appropriations for military sales will be made without prior authorization. i take this position  because i am opposed to foreign aidi have long been one of its most faithful supporters. and  because i am opposed to the substance of this billi voted for military sales this summer. and i would be supporting it today if the vote before us were whether or  the senate should authorize this program. what i will  support is the appropriation of money for a program that has  been authorized. while i serve as a member of the appropriations committee. i strongly believe that the role of the legislative committees and. indeed. the whole authorization process. must be preserved. the senate should  be forced to accede to new legislation written by an appropriations conference. my colleagues on the senate appropriations committee ackledged this very point in their refusal in the supplemental appropriations conference to allow any appropriations for unauthorized programs. in the closing days of a session. there is always the temptation to cut corners in order to expedite legislation. yet. i do  believe that in our haste we should take a step that could set a retrogressive precedent for a fundamental change in the way the senate conducts its business. this is  the kind of needed senatorial reform that i have supported over the years. the senate showed its clear will on this issue last year when. under similar circumstances. a ideological. partisan majority overwhelmingly refused to appropriate unauthorized funds for jets to taiwan. there is too much at stake here for the senate  to support the majority leaders motion.
i am sure the senator recognizes that i was just emphasizing the question about which i felt we should be most concerned. i did  mean that the constitutional provisions as to the rights and powers of the several branches of government are  important. all i was trying to get at was: why are they important.  because of the dignity of the individual.  because of the dignity of the senate as such. but because the founding fathers thought. and i agree. that the separation of powers is deeply important to the continuation of democratic government and to the maintenance of peace. that is all i was talking about. what i was trying to do was to carry this beyond the dry question of whether the senates power and authority had been abused and neglected. whether or  we had been brushed aside. the constitutional question is important. of coursebut  so much in itself. or  because it affects individually the senator from missouri. the senator from arkansas. or anyone else. by this time. most of us have passed the point of worrying about matters such as that. we should be concerned that these abuses have taken place because they lead. in this instance. and in general. to the kind of danger to the peace we are all concerned about.
. i do  question the sums of money involved. i would like to examine them. as a member of the foreign relations committee and a member of the senate. before passing upon them. in the performance of my constitutional duty. is it a matter of consequence that we have an agreement as to status of u.s. forces in bahrain. this suggests treaty relationships involving the rights of americans on foreign soil. is this or is it  a matter important egh to be the subject of a treaty. it seems to me that it is. and all the rights of u.s. citizens. that go with this matter. is that  a matter of consequence. it seems to me that it is. is the fact that we  have a direct relationship with a small. helpless country. as opposed to a great power. a matter of consequence so far as the future of american policy goes. it is  just a question of the details of the agreement. it is a question of the significance of the new relationship that this agreement would establish. i would ask the senator from alabama. if he has just a moment. whether a feeling that has occurred to me may have some basis. it seems to me rather unusual. if this is a matter of such slight importance. that so great an effort should be made as to engage the ranking majority member of the committee on foreign relations and the leader of the miity in the senate in a single effort to. in effect. overturn what the senate has solemnly done on two previous occasions. is it because this is the beginning of a pattern of arrangements in that part of the world that the state department wants to be able to make without coming to the senate. is this just one of many arrangements of this sort that are contemplated. does the senator k the answer to that. i ask the senator from alabama to respond with any kledge he may have. or my colleague from colorado.
the senator from arkansas has company. i am one who has company. i understand that the senator from new york has a substantive amendment relating to the amount to be paid to local educational agencies. the formula sounds like one we have had before. i do  k what the purport of his particular amendment is and i am . therefore. in a position to present his arguments for it. i was merely asked to offer it so that his rights to discuss it when he gets here can be preserved.
. it is  54 years since the people of lithuania and estonia proclaimed their independence and established their national identities in democratic republican states. these declarations of independence were the culmination of generations of struggle to realize the ideals of nationhood and selfdetermination. the achievements of the baltic states during their 20 years of freedom were impressive. and despite the soviet unions invasion the spirit of the baltic people remains strong and determined again to attain civil liberties and religious freedom. on many occasions. the congress of the united states has reaffirmed its concern for the rights of the baltic people. the least we can do to indicate that concern is to approve house concurrent resolution 416 which supports selfdetermination for the baltic states.
. i have two feelings about this amendment. the first is that the amendment is  necessary in order to make this memorandum available to all members of the senate. it is available . it is here. anyone can have it. so it is  necessary for our consideration to have the resolution itself amended in order to make it available. since that is so. it comes within my second consideration. namely. that this is  only. as i think. an inappropriate addition to a joint resolution. particularly this joint resolution. but it runs directly into the effort that we are making. so far as we can. without prejudicing anybodys rights or limiting his wish. to have a substantive matter considered and voted upon by this body. to have our action conform to the action of the house. in all matters of purely formal arrangements or preferences as to wording. i think we are entitled to ask our colleagues to consider that objective. in respect to procedural matters of this sort. the objective of which can be accomplished without adding it to the resolution itself. i think. to me. at least. that consideration is compelling. i have further desire to discuss it. i shall be quite content. if my colleague from minnesota is ready
. i wish to congratulate all americans of byelorussian descent on the occasion of the 59th anniversary of the declaration of independence of byelorussia. the proclamation of independence of the byelorussian democratic republic took place in minsk on march 25. 1918. true independence was shortlived. however. because byelorussia was annexed by the new soviet socialist republic on january 1. 1919. and the byelorussian soviet socialist republic was instituted. throughout its long history. byelorussia has been subject to periods of domination by foreign powerssince 1386 by poland. and since the treaty of vilna in 1656 mostly by russia and then the u.s.s.r. in both world wars. byelorussia was devastatedit was one of the chief battlegrounds between the germans and the russians. thus. byelorussia has a unique stake in peace in europe. it is the only soviet republic other than the ukraine to have individual representation at the united nations. at the european conference on security and cooperation in europe. byelorussia was  given individual representation. nevertheless. the tragic history of byelorussia gives it a particular interest in the humanitarian problems raised in the helsinki final act. as a member of the commission on security and cooperation in europe. i am especially concerned with the obligations which the soviet government has solemnly undertaken in regard to such areas as the reunification of families. freedom of information and religion. the right to binational marriages. and the rights of ethnic miities. the activities of this commissionfor which i was one of the legislative sponsorsare keeping me informed of many developments in the ongoing struggle for human rights in the soviet unionincluding. of course. byelorussia. once again. let me extend my best wishes today to all byelorussianamericans and let us all work together so that byelorussians wherever they are. will be free to practice their religious. cultural. and political rights as they see fit.
. long before the senator from south dakota was actively involved in the affairs of the world. senator humphrey showed that what he just alluded to was the truth. who will forget the flaming mayor from minneapolis and the democratic convention of that year when civil rights was brought out of the closet. he did it. his passion for the rights of human beings existed before that. and it has never flagged one bit since. his judgment about the wise thing to do in this circumstance is one that i think we all can follow. and we must follow. king that it comes from a man who is without peer in his concern for the rights of human beings. i can say this. because i watched him at that convention. i do  think i watched him. i think i heard him on the radio. i do  k whether it was televised then or . this was a landmark. he brought the democratic party out of the backwoods and out of the past and into the world. as a republican. perhaps i should  be so happy about that. but anything good that happens to either of the two parties benefits the entire nation. senator humphrey was one of the good things to happen to the democratic party. and he has been a vibrant factor in it ever since. as it has been involved. under his leadership. in the enhancement of the quality of life.  just in this country but all over the world as well. we can accept his judgment here. i share fully his views. i believe also that this is the right way to handle. that we are going to get more action cooperatively by congress and the executive doing it this way than we ever would by trying to force a mandate upon our representatives to these international institutions. the executive must be kept with the feeling that we regard him as a partner in this effort. i hope the amendment. i am confident the amendment. will be defeated.
. like the author of this article. i. too. want to urge the administration to pursue the matos case and the human rights issue in general when the united states and cuba exchange diplomatic personnel later this year. i point out that the senate made its position clear last thursday when it passed by a vote of 91 to 1. the following amendment. which i coauthored as part of the foreign relations authorization act: it is the sense of the congress that any negotiations toward the malization of relations with cuba be conducted in a deliberate manner and on a reciprocal basis. and that the vital concerns of the united states with respect to the basic rights and interests of u.s. citizens whose persons or property are the subject of such negotiations be protected. furthermore. it is the sense of congress that the cuban policies and actions regarding the use of its military and paramilitary personnel beyond its borders and its disrespect for the human rights of individuals are among the elements which must be taken into account in any such negotiations. i ask unanimous consent that the new york times article referred to be printed in the record.
. i would like to congratulate all americans of byelorussian descent on the 60th anniversary of the declaration of independence of byelorussia which took place in minsk on march 25. 1918. unfortunately. however. true independence was shortlivedbyelorussia was annexed by the new soviet socialist republic on january 1. 1919forming the socalled byelorussian soviet socialist republic. throughout its long history. byelorussia has been subject to periods of domination by foreign statessince 1386 by poland. and since the treaty of vilna in 1656. mostly by russia and. later by the soviet union. in both world wars. byelorussia suffered tragically heavy losses since it was one of the chief battlegrounds between the russians and the germans. thus. byelorussia has a strong interest in a lasting peace in europe and is the only soviet "republic" other than the ukraine to have individual representation at the united nations. at the european conference on security and cooperation in europe. byelorussia was  given individual representation. nevertheless. the difficult history of byelorussia gives it a particular interest in the humanitarian issues raised at the belgrade conference. as a member of the commission on security and cooperation in europe. i am especially concerned with soviet obligations in areas such as family reunification. ethnic miity rightssuch as the problem of russification in the u.s.s.r.-and freedom on information and religion. the activities of the csce commissionfor which i was one of the legislative sponsorsare continuing to inform me of developments in the ongoing struggle for human rights in the u.s.s.r.-including. of course. byelorussia. i wish to extend my best wishes today to all byelorussianamericansof whom there are some 1 millionmany residing in new jersey. let us all work together so that byelorussians wherever they are. will be free to practice their religious. political. and cultural rights as they wish.*
i congratulate the gentleman on this bill. there are five outstanding colleges in my district. i have talked with hundreds of men and girls who go to these colleges and who get the gi bill of rights allowance. they just can live on the allowances they get and pursue their studies. this is an emous boon to them and is really a most constructive piece of legislation and a public service. i congratulate the gentleman.
. i rise to oppose the amendment offered by my friend and colleague from wisconsin. i regret it because he is a friend of mine and because i admire very much many of the things he does. however. i think it must be opposed on one salient ground. and though he will  agree with me. i hope that he will recognize the reasonableness for this ground of opposition. the salient point is that the people the gentleman desires to affect are  in the displacedpersons camps. are  being considered as displaced persons. and that this is a displacedpersons bill. there is escaping that point and it is decisive. it has been asked here: why should we pass this bill in the interest of the people of the united states. i should like to remind the gentleman from mississippi that the very question has been debated here. and i would like to summarize it . first. we are passing this bill in the interest of the people of the united states because it represents our answer to a great moral issuean issue arising in the liquidation of the war. we are taking the position of  driving people back to countries where they are in legitimate fear of persecution. relgious. or political. by taking this side of the issue while the soviets have taken the other we reaffirm one of the most essential elements in our national securityour moral leadership of the world. second. it saves us money. because we are obligated  to the tune of about $100.000.000 a year in our international refugee organization contribution. and other overhead costs of our occupation forces attributable to the dp camps. third. because we can get good people for settlement in the united states who will make excellent citizens. there has been a great deal of testimoney on this floor from members who have been to the dp camps and who have seen that we can get highgrade immigrants from these camps. those are the essential reasons why we are confining this bill to the displaced persons and why we call it a displaced persons bill. i would like to point out that the amendment offered by the gentleman from wisconsin will cut exactly in half the effort we are making to help in the solution of the displaced persons problem. we would be taking 100.000 out of 11.000.000 ethnic germans. eleven million who are  in the dp camps and were never regarded as dps. people who have gone back to germany or austria where they are with people of their own ethnic origin. i do  think it is particularly right either. that in the character of generous americans we should so quickly forget that many ethnic germans in the countries the hitler hordes overran. were often members of the celebrated fifth column who actively supported the nazi program.
. in a speech buried in the appendix of the the gentleman from mississippi made certain statements which have such importance as a lesson for the rest of us and for the country that i call them to the attention of the house. he spoke of "yiddish communism versus christian civilization" andi continue to quote: our yiddish solicitor general has taken it upon himself to go into the supreme court and misrepresent the american people by filing a brief in the henderson case. for the purpose of trying to wipe out all segregation. and destroy our separate schools throughout the country. he continued: i understand that every member of the politburo around stalin is either yiddish or married to one. and that includes stalin himself. the russian desk of the state department informs me that of the 12 members of the politburo. only 1 is jewish. he is kagaich. the state departnent informs me that it is impossible for them to find out anything about the wives of the members. as they do  mix socially. however. they said. there is a rumorunproventhat stalins third wife is kagaichs sister. i call this matter to the houses attention because whether or  the rules would permit the striking out of such material defaming the people of a great faith i do  intend to ask that they be stricken. on the contrary. i believe they should remain in the record as a permanent memorial on two points. critical to the national security of our country about which this same gentleman so often speaks. but which it is my conviction he most seriously jeopardizes. this is firstthat it can happen herethat our constitutional democracy is  free from the dangerous propaganda technique. popularized by hitler. goebbels. and stalin. of the sweeping lie constantly reiterated which in a moment of a weakness or national frustration our people might seize on to overturn all the gains of constitutionalism and human decency which have endured so magnificently throughout the life of our nation and which we are determined to preserve forever. my second reason for speaking is that i have ed that when the same gentleman who uttered these words utters others of the same character. members often laugh with indulgence or amusement as if to say. "isnt that picturesque." it is high time we realized the grim realities involved and the awful hurt that can be inflicted by these words upon a great body of fine american citizens who have contributed so emouslyand i shall  repeat the history of the achievements of americans of the jewish faith from haym salomon to david lilienthal as practically every one of the members ks of them  only from history but from his personal experienceto our national life. i believe rather that these words should remain of record as a constant memorial to the danger which can threaten our essential freedom and domestic peace generally. when we see hatred in action it is  a laughing matter. i believe the members will k that it is a very trying ordeal for me to take the floor under circumstances such as these. it would be so much easier to say hing and to justify it by the unwillingness to repeat the charges in the course of refuting them. but this would be far more a disservice to our country than to americans of jewish faith. let me make it crystal clear that the surest guaranty of the rights of all miities in our country is the very white christian majority which the gentleman from mississippi refers to so often. and that the miities have complete and permanent faith in the devotion to the great ideals of the constitution of this majority. for americans of my faith that seek fellowship and brotherhood. recognize that ours is the greatest example of government where all citizens have the capability of equality of opportunity and rights of any in recorded history. and are convinced that the lest and most successful development of our country is the greatest future there can be for them.
the gentleman was one of the conferees. i ice the conference left out a proviso which the senate put in. which sought in future settlements to protect the rights of those who are asylumed in the united states but who were  citizens. can the gentleman tell me why that proviso was stricken out by the conferees.
i compliment the gentleman on that amendment. and make the observation that security in our government will be better served by equity and fairness and great care for the rights of individuals than in any other way.
. on saturday the united states and the representatives of the other 158.000.000 americans in latin america signed the declaration of washington dealing with the security of the western hemisphere and hemisphere solidarity in the face of the communist threat against that security. let us hope that the people of all the americas and of argentina will understand that interamerican unity requires also unity for the principles of free elections. free speech. freedom of the press and freedom of thought and religion and that the strength of the freemen who are struggling for freedoms voice will be fortified by this act of interamerican unity. the suppression by government action--open or covertof the publication of dr. gainza paz great. independent newspaper. la prensa. in bue aires makes this injunction necessary. we have learned bitter lessons from the dictatorships of hitler and mussolini and from the current dictatorship of stalins politburo in the u. s. s. r. and its satellites that "means" are vitally importantit applies to dictatorships wherever locatedfor under cover of a stated objective of peace and freedom these dictatorships have been used. we have found. ruthlessly to suppress freedom and freemen for decades. "remember la prensa." may yet turn out to be a rallying cry for freedom in this hemisphere.
 and the congress. under these circumstances remedial measures become an indispensible element of the majoritys program and as both houses are so closely divided equally a responsibility of the miity. discharge petition  8 which i have placed on the speakers desk seeks to bring up house concurrent resolution 202. to establish a joint committee on internal security and to provide for statutory rules of fair procedure. it offers members the opportunity to take remedial action on this vital national issue before the congress adjourns. if the subject is successfully brought up on the discharge petition the house can work its will as to the remedy it desires to adopt. under house concurrent resolution 202 the joint committee would take the place of the house committee and the two senate subcommittees dealing with investigations of communism and subversion and would be organized and operate in a way analogous to the joint committee on atomic energy. the joint committee could refer specific investigations to standing legislative committees or call for the appointment of select committees or statutory commissions to handle particular investigations. the rules of procedure provided in house concurrent resolution 202 will safeguard the rights as individuals of those named in committee investigations and of witnesses. will maintain the prestige of the congress and the power to investigate and axe in substance those sponsored by the association of the bar of the city of new york and other leading bar associations. i hope very much that you will consider favorably the prompt signing of discharge petition  8. sincerely. j. k. javrrs. member of congress.
. i present. for appropriate reference. a statement by gi---3946 the polish american congress entitled "why poland should be helped." on 1 this day. 166 years ago. poland enacted one of the first european democratic constitutions. we nations in the free world  have the opportunity to do something to assist in the attempt of freedomloving poles to regain the rights and liberties guaranteed by that constitution. the statement is especially fitting. for the past year saw the struggle for freedom from communist tyranny so clearly manifested in poznan. i ask unanimous consent to have the statement printed in the record.
. i am opposed to the amendment striking out part iii specifically. part iii carries out the responsibilities of the nation under the 14th amendment. to strike it would gut 1 vital element of the bill. which has only 2 vital operative elements. this 1 and an effort to better secure equal protection of the laws relating to voting. to strike part iii  is a progressive step toward a watereddown bill. which may end up as a meaningless bill. the filibuster weapon still remains pointed at the head of the senate. and i will  be a party to a steptostep process of cutting down on an already moderate bill by compromises when i k that the next fight. just as determined and dugin. will be on the jurytrial amendment. the specific rights which part iii seeks to protect are . as its opponents would seek to make out. just to enforce segregation or desegregation respect of situations in which the supreme court has said there shall be segregation. but. equally important. to protect rights as indispensable to the enjoyment of ones status as an american as the right to vote. there has been much complaint during the debate with respect to part iii that those of us who are its proponents have  been specific egh. therefore i specify the rights. they include the right to be a litigant. to serve on a jury. to have a fair trial when charged with a crime. to be free from brutality at the hands of lawenforcement officials. to be represented by counsel. to be free to testify in a federal court. to be free from mob violence while in federal custody. to be free to inform a federal officer of violation of a federal law. and generally the right to equal protection under the law. to show how very well this situation is understood by those who oppose the bill. i should like to call attention to what i consider to be a most revealing and interesting colloquy which took place between the senator from th carolina who is in the chamber. and the attorney general of the united states. when the attorney general submitted himself to what i thought was a very brilliant crossexamination over a number of days.
i should like to finish my thought first these are civil rights. too. but of a different character from the right to attend a desegregated public school. to enjoy a public beach. a public golf course. a public swimming pool. or a public park. which are the other class of rights sought to be better secured by part iii. the first group of rights i mentioned previously have hing to do with the social order in the south. even as interpreted by the opponents of the bill. it seems to me that this reason alone is sufficient to demand the defeat of the pending amendment to strike part iii. i should like to make one other point. when the senior senator from georgia . who is the leader of the forces opposed to the bill. was speaking a few moments ago. he used this phrase and i believe i have written it down exactly as he said it. if . i expect to be corrected: to destroy this system of the separation of the races in the southern states. let me repeat that: to destroy this system of the separation of the races in the southern states. in the pending bill we are faced with this fundamental issue. we must decide. on the one hand. whether we are going to better secure the rights which do  go to that systemthat is  my word. but. rather. the word of the senator from georgia [. if we once start this process. we will get any kind of bill. in any event. we will have only rights secured in part iv. and we will have done something about the right to vote. we shall have thrown all the other rights out the window. all the other rights. which have hing to do with the system described by the senator from georgia will have been thrown out the window.
i should like to be able to do thatand i think i see what the senator has in mindbut i will tell the senator why i can do it. it is because the situation differs in the respective states. many states purport to give some of these rights which go to the system of the separation of the races. but actually deny it. the situation differs in the various states. however. we must make a broad classification. and therefore i say this: the laws which i discussed as covering the first group of rights are. generally speaking. either in or clearly taken by the courts from the laws in the individual states. on the other hand. the second group largely arises from decisions interpreting the meaning of the 14th amendment within the last 2 or 3 decades. therefore. i believe i am willing to go along with the senator. although i submit that there are many crossovers with that broad distinction between the two. what i am talking about is rights.
that is.  correct. because the individual can sue to enjoin if his individual rights are damaged by aher individual. the attorney general can do that. he can only do something which has a direct connection with state law. that is what collins against hardyman held. and that is a very material restriction on the powers of the attorney general under the statute and under this proposed legislation.
part iii makes change in the substantive law. by that i mean it gives additional rights and imposes additional duties. we are  talking about remedies. it adds an additional remedy to enforce existing rights and existing duties.
i think the senator from new york and the senator from th carolina can get together on many things. but e that are related to this bill. . if the senator will allow me. i have had an opportunity to read the references from which the senator previously read to me in corpus juris secundum. i think. in all fairness to what we are discussing. the reference should be completely in the record. and i should like to read it into the record. while the senator is in the chamber. so he can argue with me about it if he wishes to. section 502 of corpus juris secundum. volume 16a. headed "constitutional guarantees." which reads: equal protection to all is the basic principle on which rests justice under the law. by virtue of a clause in the 14th amendment of the constitution of the united states expressly forbidding it to do so. a state may  deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws. this clause is a pledge of equal protection of laws or protection of equal laws. and it means. and is a guaranty. that all persons subjected to. state legislation shall be treated alike. under like circumstances and conditions. both in privileges conferred and in liabilities imposed. but it guarantees only the protection enjoyed by other persons or classes in the same place and under like circumstances. in pursuit of their lawful occupations. and it is  a guaranty of equality of operation or application of state legislation on all citizens of a state. it is intended to secure and safeguard equality of right and of treatment against intentional and arbitrary discrimination. but it operates only on legal rights otherwise created or existing and does  itself create any new legal rights. except the general right to equal protection of the laws. the equality guaranteed and required by it is equality of right and  of enjoyment. and discrimination in the grant of mere favors is  a denial of equal protection. the right is  an abstract right. but is a command which the state must respect. rights protected include the right to acquire. enjoy. own. and dispose of property. a similar guaranty in the philippine bill of rights was accorded the same construction as the guaranty in the 14th amendment. and clauses in the bills of rights of certain states. of the same general te. but couched in somewhat more general terms. have been construed as having the same force and effect as the equalprotection clause of the 14th amendment. there follows section 503. from which the senator read. which reads as follows-
in the federal courts there exists a question of jurisdiction. diversity of citizenship. and so forth. when i answered the questions before as to 3 instead of 2 remedies under section 1985. i was drawing upon my recollection. which i believe to be reliable. that there is the equity remedy of injunction. i am having prepared for me some cases on that subject. but for the sake of engaging in this colloquy and answering the senator from illis. my answer will be "yes."
the senator from illis is correct. if he will allow me. i think this is all a piece with something which needs to be very critically examined here. where a strong contention is made. on the one hand. that certain rights are being overridden. and. on the other hand. we have proposals to restrict those rights even further. on the one hand. it is contended that the individual can very well take care of himself and does  need any help. yet at the same time in five southern states we see laws relating to barratry. which is what these statutes purport to amount to. but so tremendously extended as to reach exactly the situation of the person who is subject to having his civil rights violated. so that he finds he can do anything about it without getting all of his friends involved in crime. there are laws in other states. including the state of new york. which prohibit the soliciting of litigation. but a reading of the statutes. which the senator had printed in the record. makes it clear to me that they are directed toward one specific purpose. by broadening and extending the concept. i do  k whether their constitutionality will be upheld or . but a serious question is involved. if a person is asked to contribute $25 toward someones defense. he is being asked to take a big risk. whether the constitutionality of such laws will be sustained or  i do  k. but they are a threat. the statutes goes far beyond mal concepts of barratry or procurement of litigation. i agree with the senator from illis that this is doing. at one and the same time. what ought  to be doneclosing off the opportunity for the individual to protect his own rights.
the statement has been read. and we can only come to our conclusions on the basis of the statement which was made. my point is that i do  k what the president started to say when he said. "well. " evidently. the president was beginning to say something that he did  finish. however. i do  want to attempt to draw lines of distinction on the basis of how many angels can stand on the point of a pin. the president holds an office of the greatest solemnity. he issued a statement which i must assume. and which i think the country and the world have a right to assume. is a deliberate expression of his position. whatever a clever reporter may have been able to get the president to indicate at a particular moment is entirely aside from the point. the president stated very clearlyand his statement is  in the recordthat he stands by this bill. including. it seems to me. exactly what the question of the senator from new mexico attempts to cast doubt upon. this is what he said: this legislation seeks to accomplish these four simple objectives2. to provide a reasonable program of assistance in efforts to protect other constitutional rights for the citizens. i respectfully submit that part iii is the part of the bill which covers the other constitutional rights of our citizens. i believe that the president was sayingi assume he was. that is his mannerthat he is  going to have the attorney general rush in with a pocketful of subpenas and complaints. that he is  going to call out the army. the navy. and the air force. and that he hopes very much that with the backing of affirmative law and the force of education and conciliation and the desire to comply with the lawwhich i hope are also strong in the south. and i believe they areit will be possible to meet this issue. so it is  necessary to use a pocket full of complaints and other measures provided under this law. i could  agree more completely with the president.
if the senator will go along with me for a little bit in trying to crystallize these issues. it is a fact that all the rights which would be encompassed by the senators amendment and be protected in the way the senators amendment protects them are rights which an individual could go into court and assert in an equity suit. is  that true.
i thank the senator from colorado. i might sayand i am sure i express the feelings of many other members of the senatealthough the senator from colorado. like myself. is a junior member of the senate. we have been tremendously impressed  only with his indefatigable attention to the bill but also with his profound and thorough legal learning. which he has evidenced so many times throughout the debate on the bill. two other portions of the bill are deserving of our attention and will merit serious consideration. i trust. from the conferees. the first is the fact that provision whatever is made for action by the attorney general or other federal official or body with respect to civil rights. other than voting rights. except that they will be investigated by the commission. here i am  endeavoring to reargue part iii of the bill. except to call attention to the fact that undoubtedly it will be considered in conference. it should  be overlooked that that point was the subject of considerable debate in the senate. and that a good many senators who are present today voted to retain it in the bill. that fact doubt will have an effect in conference. my views on part iii of the bill apply even when there is a request from the duly constituted local governmental body which may seek the intercession of the attorney general or of the commission itself. should it find facts to warrant such action. the wide range of civil rights which were covered by part iii was fully debated. one group includes rights as elementary as the voting right. such as the right to be a litigant. to serve on the jury. to have a fair trial when charged with a crime. and generally to be unintimidated and uncoerced in pursuing ones civil rights as an american. then there are the rights to attend a desegregated public school. as required by the supreme court. to enjoy a public beach. golf course. or park. these latter rights are also protected by the 14th amendment. even though having some connection with the social order in the south as interpreted by the opponents of the bill. the record is replete with the urgent need for this or a similar remedy to be invoked by the attorney general in order to validate the constitution as to these civil rights which are the equal of other legal rights. this the senate did  see fit to do for the full range of rights in part iii as passed by the house. and i assume the action of the senate was based on the theory of making haste slowly. i believe that. on any theory. an unusually strong case is made out for action by the federal government. when a governmental body or the commission itself believes that such action by the attorney general is required. or where federal action is needed to enjoin a conspiracy to hinder the duly constituted authorities from according equal protection of the law to individuals. i therefore commend to the conferees. in respect of part iii. these three thoughts. crystallizing them from what was debated in the senate and from the subject of amendments in this body. first. action by the attorney general on rights other than civil rights through a single injunction at the request of a duly constituted body of government. whether it be a board of education. a city or municipal council. or some other duly constituted legal body. second. when the commission which will be appointed under the bill itself believes that action should be started. third. when it is necessary to deal with a conspiracy seeks to frustrate or hinder or intimidate duly constituted authorities in a particular community from according the equal protection of the law to individuals. the last of the three points relates to the amendment suggested. and actually voted on. by the distinguished senator from kentucky [mr. coopeh]. who is  in the chamber. i think one thing needs to be emphasized in that respect before i leave part iii. let us  forget that the mandate of the supreme court with respect to school desegregation remains the law of the land. and that hing we have said or done in this debate. and law we have passed. changes that situation. as one senator. i expect that that mandate will be carried out. i shall do everything i can as a member of the senate to make certain that it is carried out. i do  accept. by implication or otherwise. the fact that there may be part iii or a seriously changed part iii in the bill indicates any change in the attitude of the united states with respect to carrying out the mandate of the supreme court in brown against board of education. i hope other senators feel as i do. because i think an unfortunate impression could be spread abroad that because we did  actually put part iii in the bill in its full effectiveness. as did the other body. we are somehow implying that we do  consider school desegregation as vital and important a legal right of every individual. anywhere in the country. as we do the voting right. i for one feel it is. and i shall do everything in my power to see to it that it is so respected in this country.
the verbs which are used in that particular provision. "release or use" testimony in public are used twice. taking the two sentences which are contained in the subsection together. as well as the title of the section. which is headed "rules of procedure of the commission." i am convinced the whole provision relates to duties and responsibilities internal to the operation of the commission. and that the reference to the use of the words "in public" is limited to public exposure by those within the commission or having responsibilities or duties imposed by it or under its authority. and that therefore the criminal sanctions do  apply other than to the official staff members or employees of the commission. in substantiation of that statement. there are contained in the memorandum excerpts from the rules of the house of representatives about committees and from the rules of a number of committees of this and the other body. carrying identical or very similar language. it has never been maintained. under that language. that if news media could acquire information of that character. they would be proceeded against by any sanctions. i hope. to the limit of my power. and that of members in the other body of congress. this statement may help quiet some of the fears. because i believe in the integrity of the sources of news. news media. if they could get the information. should  be under the inhibition which may. at first glance. be thought to be contained in the language. but  in fact or law in any view. in this section. finally. i come to my summing up. it is undeniable to me that there has been a major denial of voting rights of negroes in southern states. particularly in the deep south. and that this major denial is going on right . the mere figures themselves. taking them overall. conclusively support that statement. let us  forget. when we are having discussions about chicago and new york. that more than half of the negroes of voting age live in the 11 deep south statesover 5.000.000 out of 9.000.000. even with the great advances which have been made following the supreme court decision allowing negroes to vote in socalled white primaries. only 24 percent are registered to vote. we k that in the state of mississippi in a recent gubernatorial election just 2 percent of the negroes voted. those figures compare with 73 percent registered to vote of those eligible for the overall figures in the united states. and 53 percent for the overall figures in the 11 deep south states. so i think it is very clear that a very important civil right is being denied or jeopardizedthe right to vote. i believe that the bill. stripped of the jurytrial amendment. would be effective in respect of that right. but i point out. and i have constantly pointed out. the defects and deficiencies in the measure. the senate has exercised its will and has eliminated. through striking out part iii. added federal protection for a broad range of rights. i thoroughly disagree with the action the senate has taken. but that is the decision of the senate. i believe we can live with the bill as to voting. with the qualifications i have mentioned. and that it will provide a measurable advance on the road to progress for the negroes to receive full recognition in the south. once the bill is put into effective shape. i point out that we are dealing with the voting right of 5 million citizens. i do k why. but somehow or other we do  seem to have been able to break through with this elementary fact to the american people. a great number of those citizens are being disfranchised by strategems. schemes. and devices which are unworthy of any american. certainly in respect of the right of every american to the equal protection of the laws. i close on this e. many distinguished representatives of the south have spoken most eloquently about the sacred rights they are trying to protect. i lay aside what has been called by the senior senator from georgia [mr. russell] the question of the separation of the races.  there is reason in the world why negroes should  be permitted to vote in the south. i point to the figures and strategems as evidence of the fact that the right to vote is being largely denied to those citizens. there is question about the fact that southern senators have won a very big victory. let us  see if the measure can be perfected. if it does become law. let us see if the leadership of the south will be consecrated to the cause which ought to be a common american cause. regardless of any other considerations. regardless of their questions of the mingling of the races or anything else. will they fight as hard to secure the right to vote for the negroes as they did in what they considered here to be a holy cause to them. i think this is an acid american test. most senators will be in the senate for some time. i think there will be an opportunity to go back to these facts. the civilrights proposition is  ended. and it is  dead. what shall happen to it and what shall happen to filibusters. which are controlled by rule xxii. and what shall happen to much other legislation. will depend  alone upon the wording of the law as upon the faith in american ideals which we shall find evidenced in the leadership of those who have argued so eloquently. and. i feel. sincerely against the bill.
. i point out in this regard that the senator from illis is pursuing the same course which he has heretofore pursued with respect to the elementary rights of our people to equality of opportunity and. education and with respect to the integrity of an education itself.
. i feel it is particularly appropriate that the national organization of the lawyers of the united states should have responded so eloquently to its responsibility to maintain the integrity of the courts authority as final arbiter of individual rights and to maintain the vital balance of governmental powers which has served us so well in the development of our free nation.
. i have a matter whih i should like to call to the attention cf the senate. it relates to the bill. bu does  have any relation to the amer dment offered by the senator from orego:a. the language of the senate bill differs from the language of the house bill. i have exam ned the bill very carefully with a view lo ascertaining whether there was any likelihood of the administration of the loan provision or the administration of the scholarship provision or of the other f mtures of the bill being intruded with any discrimination on the ground of race. creed. color. or national origin. after examining the bill very carefully. i consulted with the department of health. education. and welfare. which will adminiter the bill if it is enacted into law. i should row like to read into the record a letter which i believe very clearly covers the subject. and makes very plain that the program will be administered in the same spirit as the gi bill of rights program and other programs which repre:.ent expenditures of national funds. and therefore should have trace whatever o. discrimination connected with it. i read the letter. as follows:
we hear protestations about freedom of debate and the fact that the miity must have the opportunity to elucidate its position. apparently they are frequently satisfied.  with 8 weeks. but with 10 hours of debate. for the purpose elucidating their position. i have rarely heard it said in the other body. where debates are. on the whole. limited to 1. 2. or 3 days. that that body does  express the democratic process. to sum up. so far as we on this side are concerned. this is a great bipartisan effort. it is an effort on behalf of civil rights. but i believe my colleagues will bear with me. especially the senator from illis . who is particularly interested in what i am about to say. when i state that we on this side. if we have a trusteeship at all. have the trusteeship of abraham lincoln. our colleagues have the trusteeship of jefferson and other great leaders of our country. we. a newer party. have at least the trusteeship of abraham lincoln. this is an elementary oath which ought to be taken to contribute to the wellbeing of the united states and to the wellbeing of our national aspirations and our national spirit. let it be said. equally unequivocally. that there is greater single barrier to the enjoyment by our citizens of their full constitutional rights than rule xxii as it  stands and as it is proposed to be amended by the resolution of the senator from texas . it will be exactly the same in terms of being an absolute roadblock to any really effective effort to put the majesty and the authority of the federal government behind constitutional guaranties. . this blot will  out until it is eradicated by a change. because. whether we like it or . domestically we are going to have to face it abroad. we stand in grave danger of being "licked" by a question of this kind of politics at home. for that reason i appeal to my colleagues to support the douglas amendment.
. i was much impressed with the senators testimony before our committee. and i. myself. explored the idea of a bill of rights. in fact. i proposed one during the committees consideration of the bill. the one i proposed was essentially declaratory of existing law. and proposed a statement. in simple terms. of the rights of union members and of their rights under the kennedyervin bill. but both concepts were declaratory of existing law. by way of to some extent meeting that suggestion. there was included in the pending bill section 508. with which i am sure my colleague. the senator from arkansas. is familiar. it appears on page 54. in lines 3 to 7. and reads as follows: sec. 508. every labor organization required to comply with the provisions of this act shall inform all of its members concerning the provisions of the act and the rights guaranteed members thereunder in a manner prescribed by the secretary. that was essentially the disposition. on a compromise. of my proposed bill of rights. which i shall be more than happy to make available to the senate. what puzzles me about this matterand let me say that. like the senator from pennsylvania . i approach it with an open mind and with a feeling for it. because i think there is a very desirable field for such a bill of rightsis whether such a bill of rights shall contain substantive law. which the senator from arkansas has included in his amendment. and. second. shall we do so without having a body of hearings expressly directed to such substantive law. i wish to make my question very precise. because i may say that i. together with all my colleagues. i believe. have a very emous respect for the work the senator from arkansas has done and for the beating he has taken and for the great service he has rendered to all of us by his efforts. for example. he has included a provision which limits the amount of initiation fees. all of us k the excesses which have been practiced in connection with initiation fees. the senator from arkansas has also included a provision. for example. in regard to a set way of providing due process in the event of disciplinary action. and he has also included a provision in regard to membership lists. to which my colleague has just referred. and which has been a very hotly debated question. . for example. i call attention to the provision at the top of page 4 of his amendment. i refer to the provision in regard to the right to sue. that provision imposes a limit of 3 months on proceedings within a union before there is a final decision. as the statutory waiting period which is considered reasonable. i ask my colleague. in a true spirit of inquiry. whether he believes we have egh factual backing for these specific legislative proposals in his amendment. in order to justify them. or whether we might be better off if we were to consider a bill of rights in terms of the declarations of existing law. as well as in terms of the declarations of whatever provisions we include in the pending bill.
i think this is an excellent solution of the matter. because it equates the rights of the union members with the rights of corporate stockholders. and it prevents a proliferation of the inspection. i believe the amendmnent is acceptable. because it would prevent vexatious forays into the unions books.
when a union has elected an officer. it has vested in him many responsibilitiesfunds. reputation. direction. and so forth. including the list. my amendment seeks to equalize the situation when it comes to election time. i point out that the bill of rights which the senate adopted related to rights and duties. and one of the provisions provided for periodic elections. so if the bill is passed. the type of situation to which the senator has made reference could  exist. 
so far as my own rights are concerned i have desire to have that done. although if i wished it. i am sure i would be accommodated. i should like to ask some questions of the senator from washington. we in the state of new york are vitally interested in civil defense. i should like to ask the senator with respect to the overall restoration in the civil defense appropriation which was made over the house cut. which i understand is about 40 percent. what was the overall restoration.
let me finish. the subcommittee on constitutional rights is made up of the senator from missouri . the senator from wyoming . the senator from th carolina . the senator from south carolina . the senator from arkansas . and the senator from colorado . that makes six democrats. for the republicans there are the senator from th dakota . the senator from nebraska . and the senator from wisconsin . that makes three republicans. the majority of the subcommittee is made up of democrats. republicans should attend every session of the committee they can. i say that deliberately and advisedly. but that still does  relieve the majority from the responsibility of bringing a bill to the floor of the senate. and that is the purpose of my speech today.
i am very grateful to my colleague. i think i need say more except to express a hope. i hope that under the circumstances the amendment will be accepted by the very distinguished senator from arkansas. who is as much a friendwhatever may be his position on this amendment. and i do  k what it will be. but i will affirm  that he is as much a friendof human dignity and the rights of every member of a miity race or religion as is anyone.
. i think we would be fooling ourselves if we did  understand that the bill will have trouble in the other body. that has been the traditional graveyard of measures for selfgovernment in the district of columbia. i think that what will happen in the other body will be strongly based on how much of a fight the people of the district of columbia themselves put up. i think. somehow or other. it has  broken through to the nation that the people of the district are deeply outraged by the denial to them of the rights of american citizenship. i served in the other body for 8 years. i believe that if the people of the district worked hard egh to break through with that concept to the country. their chances for selfgovernment would be materially improved. i pay tribute to the heroic work which has been done by the chairman of the committee. the senator from nevada and the ranking miity member of the committee. the senator from maryland . also to the senator from oregon . who drafted the bill. i hope the people of the district of columbia will really be up in arms and will fight for the bill. because it is my deep conviction that unless they do. the bill. like similar bills in the past. will find its lasting resting place in the other body. but if the people of the district really become exercised about the matter and really make their voices heard throughout the country. they will have a good chance for success this time.
. reserving the right to object. i gather that the senator asked unanimous consent for something. and i wanted to k what it was for. i desire an opportunity to address myself to the subject. that is my reason for reserving the right to object. am i recognized for that purpose. i k that the senator from alabama has the floor. i shall take only a minute. i should like to be accommodated to that extent. of course i shall  object. but i wish to understand clearly what is happening. as i understand. our distinguished colleague. and a greater leader in civil rights .effort. is introducing a socalled clean bill. which will be referred to the committee on the judiciary. and this bill is the result of his great work as chairman of the constitutional rights subcommittee of the committee on the judiciary. is that correct.
i should like to express my condolences to mrs. meyer and to mr. meyers family. i have kn mr. meyer for many years. both personally and originally as publisher of the washington post. he was a wonderfully refreshing human being. young to his very last active days. he was  only an outstanding publisher. but he had a keen consciousness of what was going on in the world and the need for taking part in those affairs. he also had tremendous courage in terms of being a publisher. because he would often disagree with what freedom of speech and publication dictated should go into his paper. when he put a man in charge of running the paper. he invested in him  only his confidence in a business sense. but a complete freedom of action and opinion. mr. meyer will always be remembered as an inspiration. he was at one and the same time a rugged individual. and yet one who had an understanding of the great role government needs to play in our lives. especially in these complex and dangerous times. his wife was a great companion to him and a great stimulation to him intellectually and spiritually. his many. many friends throughout the country will feel we have lost a great citizen of the country. and a very valued one. who fulfilled a rich and warm and useful life.
. the great difference is that in my home city of new york. i am proud to say. the overwhelming weight of public opinion. the overwhelming weight of officialdom. and the deep conviction of those in high public office is that segregation and discrimination are contrary to the fundamental ethical bases and constitutional bases of our country. therefore. when such exists. when such happens. when strains appear in an area where we have large negro populations or other miity populations. we shall do our best to cope with the problems. underlying this is the concept of there being difference in status before the law in status ecoically. or in social status as among people on account of their color or on account of their race or creed. of this we are very proud. i can only say to my friends in the south. or to those in the south who feel that there ought to be a difference and that a difference in some way ought to be perpetuated. or to those who are irked by the efforts of some such as myself and distinguished members of this chamberthe senator from illis . who is present on the floor. has been one of the great leaders in the civil rights strugglei hope and pray with them that the day will come when there will be an attitude and an atmosphere in which the whole social structure and the whole governmental structure of the south. as i feel is true where i come from. will be designed toward giving every man his due. whatever may be his color. to those who may be irked by our efforts to secure federal legislation with regard to civil rights. i say i pray the time will come when a law will be unnecessary. in that the rights will be fully recognized by citizens and by officials without any need for any law. federal or local. i sincerely express that hope. i add what i think all of us who have engaged in the civil rights struggle have always contended. i k that those who differ with us as to the need for a federal law are sincereas sincere as we are. i simply think their concepts are those of aher day. exactly as it is their responsibility to carry their point of view strongly forward. so i think it is our responsibility to forcefully present our views. i take this criticismand criticism it is about new york cityin good feeling. indeed. i rather like the idea that our deficiencies are exposed. for i respectfully submit that in weighing the respective deficiencies of the different communities upon this subject we will  be found wanting.
. i am most gratified. as should every american who treasures the independence of the judiciary established in our system of government by the founding fathers to e that aher committee of the american bar association has reported that the supreme courts recent decisions have  endangered national security. it will be presented to the aba at its forthcoming meeting on august 24. 1959. and is the report of the bar associations committee on the bill of rights. after an analysis of the same 24 supreme court decisions which were referred to in aher report in february of this year by the aba special committee on communist strategy. tactics. and objectives. and were the subject of so much controversy. and which i analyzed for the senate shortly after that time. the committee on the bill of rights concludes that it "is unable to see any indication that the security of the nation or of the states has been impaired" by the decisions. it points out: on balance. this committee is unable to see any indication that the security of the nation or of the states has been impaired by the supreme court of the united states. matter what the sympathies of members of the bar may be in specific instances of litigation. there should be question of their sympathy with and their enthusiastic regard for the institution of a courageous and independent judiciary. even though this necessarily means that from time to time decisions will be handed down disappointing to the interests of someone. i emphasize that the bill of rights committee report. like that of the report of the committee on communist strategy. tactics. and objectives. is in the nature of a statement for the information of the aba house of delegates as an expression of opinion of the committee. as distinguished from association policy. like the prior statements. it is  a statement of the official policy of the aba. since it has taken official policy position on this subject. however. the views of this distinguished group of lawyers. which issued the report with only a single dissent. should be given equal emphasis with the widespread interest shown in the former report. while the instant report is to be presented to the aba house of delegates next monday. i am informed that it has been released for distribution to the press and that copies of it are available. in view of this fact. and in view of the fact that the prior report was placed unanimous consent that the text of the report of the aba standing committee on the bill of rights be printed in the body of the record at this point in my remarks. together with the dissent filed by one member of that committee.
i have asked these questionsand i am perfectly well acquainted with the answersbecause i simply wished to nail down the accomplishment. which is the only purpose the senator from new jersey and i sought in this rather unusual procedure. . i ask unanimous consent to have printed as a part of my remarks an analysis entitled "procedure and precedents pertaining to discharge of committees of the senate." prepared by the legislative reference service of the library of congress. i think it will be very useful to senators because it shows why we have proceeded as we have and what are the various rights which are involved.
. the commission found that in the south. in 1956. only about 25 percent of the nearly 5 million negroes of voting age in the region in 1950 were registered. by contrast. about 60 percent of votingage southern whites are registered. generalizations can be misleading. the report points out. and the printed tables disclose that in 1958 the states range from the relatively high figures for florida and texas where 39.5 and 38.8 percent of the white population. respectively. were registered to the abysmally low figure in mississippi where only 3.89 percent of the states white populationwhich comprises 41 percent of the total votingage populationregistered in 1954. the latest year for which the commission could get figures. the introduction of this federal elections voting rights act today. marks the third amendment i have proposed so far. implementing the commissions major recommendations and these together with the several other civil rights amendments offered by myself and others rounds out the list of key civil rights bills which can be called up for action at any appropriate time.
there is question about my favoring integration in all things in which a person has a civil right to have equal facilities and equal opportunity with every other. i am  going to get into a philosophical discussion as to whom one should invite to dinner or whom ones daughter should marry. that is each persons business. i am only talking about going to school and getting a job and housing and the right to vote and the fundamental rights to which the constitution of the united states relates. that is all i am talking about. that is all i ever talk about in this connection. that is what i am talking about. that is all i have ever talked about.
i shall  discuss the psychology of the negroes in south carolina. but i will say that. in my opinion. in new york the negroes vote for either party. it is said that a very large proportion of them vote for the party which is  my partyin other words. vote for the democratic party. bearing in mind the voting pattern of the population of new york city. obviously that is true. although of course i would tell the senator from south carolina that what he has said is  true and is  borne out by the facts. that is  very important. what is important is this: what is there to the argument the senator from south carolina is making that in any way answers the fundamental point that the constitutional rights of people are the care of the congress. and must be preserved. why is the senators argument that i am "demagoging." a substantial argument directed to the merits. is it directed to the merits. does it prove anything as to the correctness or the incorrectness of this cause.
i do  believe anyone doubts. matter what position the senator from oregon or congress decides we must take. that the senator from oregon has been and will continue to be sincerelyand i k there are very few negroes in his state. relatively speakingand from the depths of his convictions an ardent advocate of the rights of individuals. and that all should have the same treatment under the law. the same class of citizenship. and the same opportunities of civil rights. i want the senator to k. whatever might be anybodys difference of view on procedure. how long we ought to be here. whether we ought to act . in january. or early in february. that there is question that the senator from oregon is in the forefront of this struggle. he has been for many years. is . and. i k. will continue to be.
860146395|let me say to the senator from new york that i am sure we can do much better if we insist upon exercising our parliamentary rights and if we insist upon running the senate within the rule book. i want to make very clear that my determination to run the senate within the rule book will  come to an end when this session is adjourned sine die tonight or tomorrow or the next day. or whenever we do adjourn. if anything has been demonstrated during the last 10 days. it has been demonstrated first. that we can transact public business in an orderly way. within the rule book. second. it has been demonstrated that following the rules is the best way to stop any steaial election to act on this matter. and expect to have our machinery in order in time for anyone to make use of it by the first of ember 1960. if we were to stay here . consider these commission recommendations. establish the system of federal registrars in accord with the commission proposal. and enact the statutory and constitutional safeguards contained in this outstanding report. we might find that a year from . some of those whose voting privilege we want to safeguard would actually be able to exercise it. in keeping with their rights as firstclass citizens. it is my opinion that by putting off this matter until next year. we are virtually assuring that any colored person who is  voting  will  be voting in 1960. either. that is  only sad. it is shameful. it has occurred to me that these commission recommendations might have been brought before the senate as amendments to the pending bill.  all of them are new. some are already contained in proposed legislation which i have either sponsored or cosponsored. and. hence. are pending before various senate committees.
i ask the senator this question. i k the senator will tell me what is on his mind with respect to it. because it bears on what we discussed in our colloquy. what the senator has described with respect to the lawand i have researched the matter. particularly the point on which the senator is speaking. because the senator has just mentioned it for the first time todayrefers to a situation of. let us say. a little under 90 years ago. i should like to ask the senator this question: the federal civil rights commission presented us with a report last fall as to which. at least as to its finding of fact. there was difference of opinion expressed by the southern members of the commission. of which there were three. and which showed some very serious deprivations of the voting right. everyone seems to agree. if they agree on hing else. that the voting right had been denied with respect to negroes in southern states or in certain parts of those states. i should like to ask the senator what he and his colleagues have done or feel ought to be done about it. or what the states ought to do about it. have any proposals been made here as alternatives to the proposals which are put forward by the federal establishment about the constant denial of the voting rights. which were described in the federal civil rights commissions report.
well. i do  k what the figure is with respect to puerto ricans. but i would say to the senator that puerto rican has been denied the right to vote in the state of new york in the sense in which the denial to vote is set forth in the report of the federal civil rights commission. provided he has the qualifications to voteand they are very reasonable qualifications. if he has the qualifications. he is  denied the right to vote. the federal civil rights commission report says that. withstanding the possession of qualifications. there are wholesale denials of the voting right in the states to which i have referred.
i may say that i did  seek to condemn or to characterize. i simply introduced the report of the federal civil rights commission which related toamong other statescertain areas in th carolina. and i made the general suggestion necessarily to the senator from th carolina. to whom it may or may  be applicablethat any senator from any of those statesand i may say that this resulted from a colloquy i had with the senator from georgiashould. in my opinion. address himself to the allegations there made. and if willful denial of a voting right was charged. i would hope that senator would explain to the senate what he thought should be done about the matter. the material in regard to th carolina is shown on page 65 of the report of the federal civil rights commission. that is all i did.
 only that. i will say to my colleague. but they are expected to fight for what. it is for the vindication of the right of every american citizen to enjoy the rights guaranteed him under the constitution.
only 37 years agothat. too. was considered some dangerous socialistic scheme in which our country should  engage. at that time. the supreme court. in massachusetts v. mellon (262 u.s. 447). in a most enlightened and forwardlooking decision. said that our people are citizens of the united states as well as citizens of their own states. and that the states have power or standing to attempt to interpose their opinions or disagreements with national policy. when directed at citizens who are getting those rights as citizens of the united states. i think the whole argument against part iii can be summed up by the view that it is possible. under our form of government. to interpose what the state thinks should happen to its citizens. between the state and the united states. in respect of a right which is guaranteed to the people of a state by the constitution of the united states. and hence is a national right. in the legislation we enacted in 1957. the civil rights act of 1957. and in the legislation which i hope. with the great help of our distinguished colleagues from other states. including the heroic help of my own colleague from new york . who is present in the chamber we may demonstrate that the united states is an entity. that it guarantees to its citizens certain rights. that those rights move from the united states to those citizens. and that the united states will utilize its machinery and see to it that state. by the doctrine of interposition. which has standing in our form of government or under our constitution. shall interpose its power and try to deny those rights to individual citizens. but. on the contrary. that the congress of the united states will establish the necessary machinery and give the necessary authority to officials of the united states so that in the most moderate and orderly way. through the kindest procedure we k. civil proceedings in the courts of the united states. the rights of the individual to enjoy what is promised to him under the constitution will  be denied or frustrated by what is. in effect. a doctrine of interposition.
i should also like to add to what my distinguished colleague from illis has already read from his testimony. the testimony at page 199 of the hearings before the subcommittee on constitutional rights of the committee on the judiciary. in march. april. and may. 1959. the attorney general said. speaking of part iii: i think it would require the government to become involved in a great deal of litigation which might very well harden the -esistance that is already apparent in many areas to the point where it would be impossible to make any progress in the future. i realize that you can make an argument the other way. i think it is a question of judgment and balance and timing. and it is my belief  that a bill of that kind might curtail progress. rather than advance the progress in this field. he went on to say: i think there is constitutional bar to authorizing the united states to institute suit. because congress itself has recognized that the united states has the power to bring a suit in the voting case. it seems to me that that puts in focus the reasons of the attorney general. and that they are  substantial and basic reasons which would entitle anyone to say. "he did  want this authority."
ial finding. and based upon the right of the federal government to act in a situation in which the voting right is being denied. contrary to the precepts of the 15th amendment. that is one proposal which has been made.
 yet. that is point  1. the illusion of an agreedupon bill is gone. we are going to have to fashion a senate bill. point  2 is that every member of the senate who votes on any of these provisions. whether it be to table or to vote substantively. is  voting definitively. point  3. which is very important. . i bring those things to the attention of all of our colleagues. because we have to k that we are up against a substantive question . shall we have a civil rights bill which is adequate for the world in which we live. this is a world in which there are devastating. horrible and bloody riots in one part of the worldin south africabased upon this issue of race and color. a world in which we have serious questions raised with regard to law and order and the rights of peaceful assemblage in our own states. this should impress us all with the simmering caldron upon which we sit. and therefore of the necessity of  being overtaken by events but instead of being ahead of events. by the use of intelligent legislation in terms of the contribution of the federal congress.
i wish to state. first. that i am opposed to the amendment. i think it waters down what already has been watered down considerably. it is axiomatic that children of our armed service personnel should  be required to undergo this kind of situation in a community in which they are located only because the united states sends them there. they should have the same rights and privileges and opportunities that they would enjoy anywhere else in the united states where this type of local resistance which goes to the extent of closing schools does  exist. i respectfully submit that this is  the situation in which we must be sympathetic with what is occurring in that community. to the contrary. it is a matter of dignity for the united states to provide for the education of the children of its armed personnel and to protect the children from this kind of situation.
. the senator from missouri . cilairman of the senate constitutional rights subcommittee. was the principal speaker last month at the 40th anniversary dinner meeting. in my home city of new york. of the american civil liberties union. excerpts from senator hennings address have been printed in civil liberties in new york. the periodic publication of the new york civil liberties union. volume 8.  4. april 1960. i ask unanimous consent that senator hennings address. entitled "the challenge of the 1960s: progress for individual rights." be printed at this point in the record as a part of my remarks.
well. i do  k what the figure is with respect to puerto ricans. but i would say to the senator that puerto rican has been denied the right to vote in the state of new york in the sense in which the denial to vote is set forth in the report of the federal civil rights commission. provided he has the qualifications to voteand they are very reasonable qualifications. if he has the qualifications. he is  denied the right to vote. the federal civil rights commsi.on report says that. withstanding the possession of qualifications. there are wholesale denials of the voting right in the states to which i have referred.
. i believe the new york times this morning summed it up rather well when it said that this was "only one victory out of a dozen attempts to tighten the bill." i hasten to say that it is disgrace to be defeated. so i. too. would like to join in paying tribute to the leaders who did their best. according to their lights. to bring through some kind of bill. and who. from all appearances. have apparently succeeded. it is  for any of us to say that this itself is  a very remarkable thing under the circumstances. in view of aher point which i shall make in a minute. i hope and pray that the majority may be right if it be their view that this legislation is adequate to head off deeper troubles. i have the faith in the american system to be anxious that this be so. and that everything will be done to make this bill work. that will take further action by the executive in implementing with courage and vigor the powers which are given it in the bill. by the congress in providing sufficient funds and personnel to carry out its objectives. and by the judiciary. which has carried the greatest burden so far in protecting the constitutional rights of all citizens to continue in this effort. my final observation is this. i do  believe this is the civil rights bill the majority of the senate wants. i could  believe it in the face of the growing tension on this issue in our own country and the world and the duty of legislators to seek to head off these conditions instead of letting them threaten to overtake us. it is  what they want. but this is what they thought they could get. the senator from illis . who is in the chamber. and i tried cloture and failed to get even a majority. and it seemed that there were just  egh votes for cloture at any stage. senators wanted the terms of the bill settled before voting cloture. and this is the very essence of the selfcontradiction in the senate rules. by this means a miity of the senate exercises. even in the final analysis. a veto power over civil rights legislation. in conclusion. the real lesson of the civil rights act of 1960 is the failure of the senate rules to measure up to the senates responsibility to the nation at home and abroad. the senate was again unable to secure civil rights legislation free from the threat which was constantly with us. that if the bill was  cut to a pattern which the south was willing to accept. it would be impossible to get it to a final vote. i believe that many of the needed amendments which failed to get even a majority vote were victims of an unwillingness by the senate majority to risk a filibuster. we will  be able to get civil rights legislation adequate to the problems of our time through the senate unless rule xxii is amended again. i believe the proposal reported by the rules committee which was before us at the opening of this congress allowing cloture by a constitutional majority after 15 days of debate to be the best one. it preserves free debate without giving a veto power to a third of the senate. i intend to join in the effort to again amend rule xxii at the opening of the next session. this effort on the rules should be followed by a new effort to get adequate civil rights legislation. this is but one in a series of civil rights congresses. because the situation will tolerate hing else.
. i should like to be heard upon that motion. i believe that under the rulings which have been made by the chair action on the concurrent resolution would be the transaction of business and might very well prejudice the controversy which the senate is having about the rules. at least. that is what the chair has ruled. so i suggest to the movant that if he wishes to go forward with this matter at this particular time. at least the rights of the proponents of the motion which is the pending business may be protected.
. reserving the right to object. at this time i should like to propound the parliamentary inquiry which i propounded beforenamely. will the granting of such unanimous consent change whatever rights the proponents of these motions have or whatever rights other senators have to move to close debate under the constitution. rather than under the rules of the senate.
. i commend to the attention of the senate the discussion which took place between these two able and informed senators. in my opinion. the vital question here is  whether "harvest of shame" is or is  a wholly comprehensive and objective documentary. the important thing is that a detailed and forthright discussion of a very pressing problem took place in the senate of the united states. for it shows that we are  neglecting our obligation as legislators to scrutinize. debate on and act on behalf of every area of our ecoy regardless of size or locality. we are recognizing that many hundreds of thousands of migratory workers are an integral part of our nations working force and as such are fully entitled to our attention. during the 86th congress. i worked with the senator from new jersey in the subcommittee on proposed legislation to protect the human and working rights of our migrant workers. principally by a crew leader bill and adult and child education bills. i anticipate expanded legislative activities in the subcommittee during this session. and i look forward to detailed hearings on the issues and currents affecting our agricultural ecoy and those who support it. at which all parties in interest will have full opportunity to be heard. in this connection. i ask unanimous consent that an editorial from the new york times of february 12. 1961. a letter to the editor of the times appearing in the february 15 issue. and an editorial from the new york herald tribune of february 6. 1961. be printed in the body of the record at this point.
 to proclaim american indian day on the fourth friday in september of every year. to coincide with traditional indian festivals held in many states. i introduced the resolution late in the session last year with 28 other senators as cosponsors. since then. i have received from the yindian guides of the ymca petitions signed by more than 2.000 schoolchildren from 22 states urging enactment of the joint resolution. many other national organizations have expressed their support. i am delighted that public schoolchildren are aware of the indelible imprint the american indian has made on our national character and culture. lynn michaelsons solicitude toward the american indian should be shared by all of us. it is my hope that an annual celebration of american indian day will focus the publics attention on the cultural. social and educational growth of the american indian and that it will remind us to treat the american indian with more respect and equality and to make sure that his rights are  abused again. the 43 other senators who are joining me in cosponsoring the joint resolution are: senators allott. bennett. burdick. byrd of west virginia. can. capehart. carroll. case of new jersey. case of south dakota. chavez. church.
madam president. i e with some interest that various persons around the country. including former president truman. are taking the freedom riders to task for "provoking"-and i use that word in quotation marksviolence in the south by their insistence on testing out whether or  the interstate bus transportation system in the south is desegregated or segregated. and for trying to get it desegregated. let us understand that these freedom riders. whatever may be their individual backgrounds. are etheless asserting rights of free americans. and asserting them because it becomes sensationally clear that there has been segregation in interstate bus transportation. withstanding federal laws and the regulatory power of the icc. during all this time when such segregation supposedly has been illegal. it is one thing to ask people. who have the full legal right. in terms of their course of action. as a matter of wisdom. for the moment. perhaps.  to go into certain areas as the attorney general is said to have urged. it is aher to equate them in the same terms as those who would violate the law and by violence prevent americans from exercising rights. or with those who would lend themselves to covering up the fact that the interstate bus system. withstanding the law. has been kept segregated. as to former president truman. i have question whatever about his sincerity. i am sure he feels as deeply about it as i do. and as all of us do who are concerned with civil rights. but i raise this point only because he is a very important american. and his views are important in terms of influencing other americans. i merely present what i believe is the other side of the coin in respect to this situation. we are somewhat helped in a keen analysis of what is at stake by a comment published in the new yorker magazine. the new yorker is usually associated with the lighter side of life. but in this instance its comment is most penetrating because of the wisdom it envisions concerning the subject to which i have just referred. this item contains comments to which i fully subscribethat one can hardly. with justice. inform a negro that he has a duty as a citizen to refrain from sharing in the rights of citizenship. madam president. i ask unanimous consent that the comment from the new yorker be printed at this point in the record.
first. i pay tribute to a most redoubtable fighter in this chamber for the rights of miitiespaul douglaswho deserves it extremely well. for his many years of service. i am more than privileged to ackledge it. i k that the distinguished senator from pennsylvania . who has offered the amendment. has been a great tower of strength in this field and has been most effective. as is demonstrated by his work today. i am certain that he would join me in paying that kind of tribute to his own colleague. without any derogation of his own advocacy of this critically important amendment. on the question of the standing of the parties in respect to their platforms. the senator from illis and other senators will find in the record of yesterday a colloquy between the miity leader and me. in which the miity leader made it clear that although the republican party did  spell out in its 1960 platform. precisely as it was spelled out in the democratic platform. a pledge for the extension of the civil rights commission. it was so implicit in our pride in the fact that the commission was established in a republican administration. in the achievements of the commission. and in everything we undertook in the platform. that he was able to say tha he considers it be the settled policy of our party. as well. that the life of the commission should be extended.
. i hasten to point out that of course there are violations of such rights in other areas of our country. including the th. but in those areas the whole governmental machinery and the whole social climate are in favor of redressing peoples rights and  denying them. finally. i wish to say that i hope what is happening in new orleans may give to the american people egh realization of what is at stake. both at home and throughout the world. so that they will use their influence in terms of marshaling public opinion to help us see. at long last. that there is an effective cloture vote. i believe that. coupled with the full effort of the administration in this area. as well as our effort on the miity side. may have a desirable result. finally. i should like to join with my colleague. the senator from new york . who was kind egh to commend me for raising the questionand i commend himin the hope and the prayer that there will be an expression of very keen feelings on the part of our fellow americans from the south with respect to the shameful exhibition in new orleans. we k that there are millions of very fine. highminded americans in our southern states. it will be very good for the rest of the country to hear from them in this situation.
i wish to say that this situation. to which we have addressed ourselves. is very serious. it bears out the tradition of bipartisanship which has always obtained in this field. i have the very distinct feeling that all of us feel the federal government has a place in the struggle which is going on and which could get very much worse. it should be our common purpose. in this very wonderful way in which we have always proceeded in the civil rights field. to see that the majesty and dignity of the federal government is interposed so that people may exercise their constitutional rights free of vexations and interference. this is disrespect to any community or to any state. but merely asserts the fundamental. basic rights of u.s. citizens. i am very grateful to my colleague.
i do  find in the unanimousconsent request the same caveat which the majority leader inserted into his request for action on the resolution on which we acted before. that it be without prejudice to the rights of all members in this current issue before the senate.
i think it would be a little aalous if we were to accept the constitutional law advice of the senator from georgia. who would hardly accept ours. so. . i propose. as one senator. to proceed to protect these rights as we see them in respect to the action of the senate. if that means morning hour. then let the responsibility rest with those who object to a morning hour upon those conditions. we are  trying to inconvenience the senate. but we will  jeopardize a substantive right. may i ask the majority leader what are his plans in respect to this debate. obviously. the lineaments of a filibuster are clear. i have been here long egh to recognize them. so have other senators. are we to have sessions from 12 until 6. in a nice. comfortable. convenient way. are we to lengthen the sessions. what is the plan of the majority leader with respect to the effort to bring these matters to some kind of a vote. which is. after all. our great responsibility.
i thank the senator. that is high praise coming from him. i understand what has occurred. it is in the ebb and flow of politics. the senator is within his rights as a senator. in taking e -of the stories to which he has referred. i understand the vicissitudes of life. i have my victories and my defeats. undoubtedly i will have them again. i am quite tranquil. i will do my job on the committees to which i have been assigned. i will try to make my contributions to the consideration of appropriation measures on the floor of the senate. and if the lord is good to us all. there may be aher opportunity.
. i regret that the senator from th carolina . a very distinguished member of the senate. who is chairman of the constitutional rights subcommittee of the committee on the judiciary. is necessarily absent today. and i am satisfied that he is necessarily absent. i regret that in his absence i must raise a question which he might settle himself. as the chairman of the subcommittee in the absence of a rule of the subcommittee.
. let us grow up. and let us be adult. the ion of the senate as a great club is fine if we deal with the problems of the country. my concern is as follows. and i shall always try to maintain it: i make criticism of any member of the senate whatsoever. but we must do our duty. we can sit around with our hands folded while the things being done determine the course that the congress shall take for the next 2 years. this resolution is one of the things being done which have such an effect. it is one of the doors being closed. it is  one of the most important doors. we could do something about civil rights if we wanted to. if. as we k. an adequate majority. sometimes twothirds. decided to do it. but this is a door by means of which these rights could and should be considered. and to sit by and let it ride because one wants to be a good fellow and does  want to raise any question about the matter. when the most hotly controverted civil rights question in the united states is omitted from the matters this subcommittee tells the senate. in its own report. it is going to take up. is  my idea of being a good senator of the united states. that is why. in the absence of any other assurancein the absence even of agreement to let the resolution go over until next tuesdayi felt it my duty to seek a vote on the amendment. for the information of the senate. i shall seek a yeaandnay vote. if i can get one.
. it is always important to cut through obscurities. the distinguished senator from mississippi says he will do his duty as he sees it. that is all right. we all understand that. that may be consistent with the way the senator from mississippi does or does  feel he must run his office. then my very distinguished colleague in the senate. the majority leader. says that the senator from th carolina said he would grant hearings on any bill that was referred to him. i heard him say that. there was some dispute about that. however. even laying that aside. we are granting money in this resolution.  for the consideration of particular bills. but we are granting more than $150.000 for certain investigations in the constitutional rights field. that is what this money is for. these investigations are spelled out for us specifically. i should like to read them again. they are: the constitutional rights of the american indian. the constitutional rights of military personnel. the rights of the mentally ill. constitutional rights and the administration of criminal justice. citizenship. right to counsel. i say that we can ask for a substantial sum of money from congress for a constitutional rights subcommittee which is telling us in advance that it is  going to consider the question of the denial of rights under the 14th and 15th amendments. especially with the record of the civil rights commission before us. and with a report before us. which i recently put into the record. from the civil rights commissions advisory committee in the state of mississippi itself. which indicated the most widespread and flagrant violations of the 14th and 15th amendments. again i say-
the question always comes up. shall we -just sit silently by and say hing. that is always a question of degree. it seems to me that where it is so very clear that there is intention of considering what many of us here believe to be some of the most fundamental questions of constitutional rights in the country. it is our -duty to rise and try to do something about it. in the only way open to me. i have tried to do that
i have the calendar of the committee on the judiciary before me. and it does indicate a considerable number of references. which does  mean. by any means. that all the bills were referred. i think it bears somewhat upon the controversy which existed last year. when the senator from th carolina indicated that he granted a hearing on any bill on which a hearing was requested. because there are a good many bills. for example. as to which my colleague from new york was himself responsible for requesting action. that was the reason for the controversy. which occurred at that time. as to whether that had actually been the practice of the subcommittee. i have before me one document. the report of the subcommittee on constitutional rights for the 1st session of the 87th congress. which relates to that issue. on page 18. the report reads: during the session there were referred to the subcommittee 15 bills dealing with the further preservation and protection of the constitutional rights of all persons within the united states. of these bills the subcommittee considered and acted upon three bills to extend the operation of the commission on civil rights. i point that out merely to show the small number. out of the total volume of these bills which were submitted to the subcommittee. that were acted upon. however. i think these arguments are  germane to this money resolution. whatever may be the pros and cons on that issue. as they have been discussed here. what is germane to this money resolution is that we be told what investigations will be conducted under it. itis very clear. from a reading of these specifications. that there is  included any consideration of what we call civil rights. therefore. i respectfully submit that the job which the subcommittee should be doing will  be done. they tell us so themselves. it is for that reason that. at the very least. i wished at least to open the question to a majority of the subcommittee as to what matters they would consider. perhaps in its good judgment the majority of the subcommittee would decide that they wanted to consider civil rights issues. in which case that should be done. in any case. the door should  be clanged shut. as would be done if the senate acted on the resolution today without discussion.
. unfortunately. we are speaking in the absence of the subcommittee chairman. i am perfectly willing to accept the assurance of the majority leader precisely as he stated it. that is. that if a sponsor of a bill referred to the subcommittee on constitutional rights requests a hearingand we have the statement that the practice in the past of automatic referral will continueand if a majority of the subcommittee sustains that request. the senator will get a hearing. that is all fine. provided that there is added to the statement that the question for the majority of the subcommittee will be promptly submitted to the subcommittee. it seems to me that is inherent in what we are talking about. if the question is  submitted. the majority may never get an opportunity to decide whether it does or does  wish to grant a hearing. i k that the majority leader is  the chairman of the subcommittee. but i trust him completely. with the majority leaders assurance that he will use his best efforts to that effect. i shall withdraw the amendment.
. the negro community took to the streets. i point out that. even with the great frustrations and provocations in birmingham. including the use of fire hoses. police dogs. and clubs. there has been extraordinarily little violence. there has been some violence. but there has been evidence of great restraint on the part of the negro community. even in birmingham. what the people were seeking was hing but their elementary rights as u.s. citizens. that is the whole issue in civil rights. citizens are citizens of their states. yes. but the people are also citizens of the united states. and as the constitution of the united states is the supreme law. the united states can nullify a state law which is contrary to the constitution. the united states can prevent a state from enforcing such law. and can protect the citizens of the united states in that state when he seeks to exercise rights which that state seeks unconstitutionally to deny him. that is the fundamental question which is before the senatea question from which my good and distinguished friend the senator from mississippi and other similar spokesmen prefer to avert their eyes. but that is it. and until we enforce those rights. law and order will  be given the opportunity to prevail.
i am deeply grateful to the distinguished senator from oregon for his support. we have been friends for years. and i do  think we are ever more deeply locked in association than in relation to matters of the very character of which we are speaking. when the senator speaks of disorders in the streets of the cities of america. i assure my colleague that what is so deeply troubling to all of us is that he is  speaking alone of the southern cities. but the most populous cities of our nationthe pride of our nation only in the south. but in the th. the issue is deeply troubling to many of us. we all may  agree. but we all can certainly understand the despair which surrounds a people who for 100 years have  been able to realize and enjoy their fundamental rights as americans. at long last the issue has broken loose beyond the bounds of containment.  is the time to deal with it.
i say to my colleague. in response. that  only would i have to satisfy myself and my colleagues who have joined me. but the senate as a whole. i am fully prepared to bear that burden. i also say to my colleague from arizona. who is an ardent and most eloquent exponent of the philosophy of our party. that. speaking unilaterally. i k of single measure more adjusted to republican philosophy than a measure which leaves complete freedom to everybody. except that it would provide a forum for adjudication. in accordance with the rulings of law. of vexing. detailed. individual problems. i k of hing which marries our ideas of personal freedom with the need for a forum for adjudication of individual rights more felicitously than this "part ii" provision. i say that to my colleague from arizona because i k he is devoted to refining and developing the philosophy of our party.
ial commissions could be applied. but only while the government was operating. and  thereafter. so. really. there would  be the kind of compulsion there would be under the joint resolution. which is likely to pass. because under the joint resolution. if a man should quit he would give up his seniority rights and everything else. it is true that the railway labor act. which would apply to the measure which is about to pass. would preserve his right to quit. there is an express section to that effect. but it would  preserve his seniority rights or other rights that may have accrued to him by working for a given railroad for a given time. if a man should quit while the government was in possession of the railroad. he would give hing up. because the government would  be his employer. therefore. that is a real compulsion built into the measure before us. without my amendment. aher item of importance is that this amendment would allow the united states to operate the road for its own account. that is the greatest point of all. this approach would use the power of eminent domain in order to pay a fair compensation for the use of a road. that would take the romance out of it completely for management. management would  have possession of the roads. management would get a fair rental for them. but would  have the opportunity to develop them. which is what management wants to do. it seems to me that is a builtin scheme which will put the government into a position to assure itself of operation. this is the prime necessity. in my view. overriding every other consideration which is inherent in the debate today. this amendment would take the romance out of the dispute so far as management and workers are concerned. if collective bargaining is to continue. and a restoration is to be made. to the management of each carrier when there is longer a danger of a strike. this would put a real premium upon agreement between management and labor.
there must be a balancing of the public interest as against these dangers. dangers do exist. matter what one does. as is evidenced by what already has occurred at birmingham. a lesser danger to the people of the united states results from enforcement of the rights of citizens of the united states within the state of alabamato which those rights extend. just as they do to every other part of the nation. such enforcement would be by the united states. if need be. in the event that the state authoritiesand certainly it is always preferable to have the laws enforced by the state authoritiesare unable or unwilling to enforce them. the president should k that in these dire circumstances. he has the support of the people of the country and of those in high places in the legislative branch who feel. as i do. that all measures. which may be necessary for the maintenance of laws in the interests of the nation. should be taken. for ours is a nation of laws.  of menwhether in alabama or in any other area of the nation. the nation should assure him of that. the nation should support him in whatever decision he has to make to see that the laws of the united states are enforced in alabama. that the orders of the federal courts are carried out. and that the children who seek the rights of citizens of the united states are  denied an education in the public schools of the state which should be open to them. it is the manifest duty of the states. as it is that of the united states. to protect these citizens in the exercise of their rights.
 storey. of the southwestern legal foundation at dallas. tex.. and chairman rankin. of the political science department of duke university. in their unanimous report. they say: finally. we must state that survival of the hoable doctrine of states rights imposes cotermis obligations. it is shortsighted indeed to force citizens of the state to look to the central government alone for vindication of rights about which there is substantial disagreement. as we have said on so many occasions: civil rights carry with them civil responsibilities. so. too. states rights carry with them state obligations to all its citizens. here is expressed what is the basis of the argument made by people like myself: if it is said that there should  be federal legislation on civil rights because the states will look after their own. including the rights of citizens as citizens of the united states. the answer is that for 110 years the states have gone the other way. in endeavoring to pursue segregation themselves with state laws which are unconstitutional. there are southerners on the commission. i hope there will always be. this is a very good thing in terms of fair evaluation of the facts which are found. and the determination of what the american people ought to do in the light of the facts. third. all of us have faith in the conscience of the country. without regard to my own civil rights views or to the views of any other senators. i hazard the guess that all senators. even from states which consider segregation a part of their social order or social pattern. have faith in the conscience of the country and in the sense of fairplay of the american people in their dedication to the ideals of freedom and justice. this issue can be acted on without having the facts available. the u.s. commission on civil rights is the one agency which in a consolidated way can ascertain and digest the facts. the civil rights division of the department of justice does  stand in this place. it is. essentially. a prosecuting agency. as it should be. a prosecutor can make a complete analysis of the facts. it can engage in hearings. it must save its materials for the courts. on many occasions it can disclose the things that it has found. because for a prosecutor to do so would be contrary to the cas of legal ethics. it is  an agency which can give to the public information upon which the public conscience and the public judgment can act. this is critical to our country. in my opinion. there are two ways of attaining justice in terms of segregation and discrimination. one is by law. and the other is by an aroused conscience on the part of the american people. in order to act intelligently. in the american tradition. the american public must have the facts. the u.s. civil rights commission has done an extraordinary job in digesting and putting forward the facts. in addition. it has given skillful consideration to its recommendations. the report issued by the civil rights commission is one of the most extraordinary documents i have ever seen issued by any governmental agency. to bear out what i mean about the conscience of the citizen. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record a statement issued by 53 birmingham lawyers in regard to the tense situation in that city. in part. they said: a citizens obligation to obey the law can be modified by an election or by personal preferences because the law exists to protect allmiity and majority alike.
. the major portion of the annual legislative report to the antidefamation league of bnai brith is devoted to a review of civil rights developments in the 1st session of the 88th congress and a forecast of what is in store for the 2d session. civil rights and liberties has been a major concern of the adl throughout the 50 years of its activities. and it is generally recognized as one of the leading governmental organizations in the field. respect for the human dignity of all men and the safeguarding of their full rights as citizens of the united states are the tasks to which the adl has dedicated itself. this report. therefore. has more than its usual significance at this time. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record excerpts from the report to the antidefamation league of bnai brith. prepared by its washington representatives. herman edelsberg and david brody. entitled. "civil rights in the 88th congress. 1st session." december 31. 1963.
 thus the only rights that would exist would be conferred  by this particular treaty. that is why i am against it. i shall vote against it. i hope the senate will reject it. i believe it will be a very salutary lesson on the proposition that we do  forget that. whatever may be our friendships--and they are very great with austria and with germanywe shall never forget. and. so long as we can help it. i shall try to see to it that the world never forgets. the crimes that hitler and the nazis. to which the german people were unhappily and unfortunately a party. perpetrated upon all mankind.
it is proper that i should clarify the legal situation which relates to these motions. as i may have. myself. quite unwittingly misled the senate in respect of my statement. i think i am absolutely correct. in terms of what is written in the rules. in saying that the only way in which the bill can be referred to committee for a stated time is when a motion is made to take up the bill after it has been placed on the calendar. but the parliamentarian has informed me. as he informed the senator from oregon. that in his view. and based upon the precedents he is using. such a motion will lie upon a motion to refer. the automatic reference of the bill having once been stopped. i understand that to be clearly so. i therefore clear the record to that effect. because i do  wish to give any view. right or wrong. to mislead any senator. i still feel strongly that the senate is exercising its own best judgment in exact accord with the rules of control over this measure by putting it where it wants it to be. the senior senator from oregon has the right to argue that he believes the hearings are  germane. i believe they are. he is absolutely within his rights to claim that a good purpose would be served. i do  think so. i think it would be a waste of time. those are substantive arguments. but i wanted to make it clear that we are in agreement as to the procedural situation.  necessarily according to the rules. but according to the way the parliamentarian interprets them. to illustrate how strange and inconsistent this situation is. i am told one can move to amend a motion to take up. although the same rule would apply that it seems to me would apply to the motion to refer.  because of the wording of the rule. but because of preference. according to the parliamentarian. be that as it may. the parliamentarian runs the show. unless we wish to overrule him. but i wish to show that is the parliamentarians construction. exactly as he has given it.
so that whether it went to the judiciary committee or whether it remained on the floor of the senate. the senator would still feel he would have to invoke his rights to speak for as long as the rules permitted. in order to keep the bill from making any further progress.
the point i am making is that we are seeking by the proposed legislation to protect the rights of citizens of the united states who happen to live in mississippi. what the senator is trying to tell us is that we can reach their rights as citizens of the united states because they live in mississippi and the mississippi state government does  like it.
i do. and i have already said that many state laws are more stringent than house bill 7152. the letters mailed to lions club officers also contained a copy of chapter 13 of mr. stovers bookwhich he urges lions clubs throughout the country to sell as part of his project and crusade. this chapter conveys the studied implication that 55 percent of the members of the u.s. house of representatives cx---390 kingly "sold the majority and their rights down the stream. under duress. and pressure. and coercion. and greedall in favor of a miity." this. because the house passed the civil rights bill by a vote of 290 to 130. according to this chapter of the book. which lions club members have been asked to push for charity. there were "approximately 240 members of the house of representatives who voted yes against their convictions. or their conscience. or both." while there are names to describe men who discard their principles under pressure. mr. stover does  use all of them. but he uses egh. he asks: why was this shameful thing done by the congress of the united states. have our representatives become patsies. pussyfooters. pushovers. * * * why the connivance. and collusion. and the sellout. was it too much demagogery. or too many negro delegates camped outside the house chamber. or too much l.b.j. arm twisting. or all three. it apparently never occurred to the author of this crusadeand book saleto check the number of representatives who voted for civil rights legislation in 1957 and 1960. he might have found that since 288 representatives voted to insure the rights of all american citizens in 1960. and 286 voted the same way in 1957. these same menwhen they passed the bill which is  coming before the senatewere following a previously set path of justice to miities. upon whom they did  turn their backs. on the contrary. they stood by their consciences and their convictions. in conclusion. i am sure that most of the lions club officers throughout this country will immediately reject the use of any part of their organization as a front for the dissemination of this type of propaganda. but the very fact that they are subjected to such material because their name happens to be in an organizations directory or on a mailing list. requires disclosure so that all may be warned.
i do  believe the attorney general is in any position to shop around. his shopping opportunities are extremely limited anyhow. as is shown by what i have just read concerning the first judge appointed by the kennedy administration. be that as it may. it seems to meand i do  expect the senator particularly to agree with methat the authors of the bill. which leaves enforcement to the courts. felt that it was high time that the majesty of the united states was imposed to assist the efforts of some of the people affected. we talk almost in terms of financial sacrifice. which is ludicrous. the people affected are the poorest of the poor. when it comes to asserting their rights in areas where everyone is against them. including u.s. district judges. this is the very least we can do for them in order to right a grave imbalance which has been caused by the socalled social order in many areas of the south.
clearly. the republican party has a great stake historically in public accommodations legislation. it has pioneered in this field in the past. it has shown initiative and leadership in the states. and will be following in this fine tradition by supporting the public accommodations section of this bill. i recite all these facts to put the republican record in perspective as we continue this debate. i am frankly disturbed by headlines which suggest that the "gop will back changes in rights bill." it is my view that the most meaningful changes that can be made to the civil rights bill are those suggested on monday by the senator from california . and on wednesday by the senator from new york . and the senator from michigan . and they would strengthen the bill.  weaken it. i would  for one moment pretend that the republican view in this regard is unanimous. but i think the facts demonstrate that those who would weaken the present bill before the senateif there be anydo  represent. on the record to date. a consensus in my party. on the contrary. there is every reason to expect that republicans in the senate. withstanding their relative size as a group. will be the indispensable means to attaining a meaningful civil rights bill with every title in it preserved and adequately covered. as they were in the house of representatives. the day that was recorded would be a day of supreme pride for me. and i am deeply confident that it will come based on the record. on what i have received from the republican govers. and on everything i have heard within my own party. several senators addressed the chair.
. oneleast of all. myself--condones violence or breaches of law. i speak of this event.  only because i am sure that in the mind of reverend klunder was the belief that he was serving a highly idealistic cause. but. in addition. because he gave his life in that effort. i believe that tragic occurrence is worthy of e by us as we debate the issue  before the senate. it shows how seriously and dangerously this issue can affect our society. how exacerbated tempers can become. and how serious to individuals can be the events engendered by the deep feelings of injustice held by a large part of the population because of the denial to them of what they regard as their rights as americans.
. i invite the attention of the senate to an interesting copyrighted story in the washington post this morning entitled. "the harris survey: rights bill still favored 2 to 1 despite backlash." the harris survey showsand it is a substantial and important public surveyan interesting situation on the question of cloture in the current filibuster on the civil rights bill. that cloture is favored nationwide by 63 percent of those surveyed and opposed by 24 percent. among the white people in the south. it is favored by 44 percent and opposed by 43 percent. these percentages are  necessarily conclusive. of course. but the significance of the survey is twofold. as i see it. first. americans. whatever their views may be 6n civil rightsand the same survey shows that among whites in the south there is strong opposition to outlawing segregation in public accommodationsnevertheless. take pride in and feel secure because of the integrity of the institutions of the government of the united states. it seems to me very clear that there is a serious problem in the senate. when the senate can be tied up by a miity of. at most. onethird of its membershipbecause after all. that is all that is necessary to prevent closureso that it is unable to carry on the nations business because it is unable to come to a vote. as is its constitutional duty. although more than a majority vote is required by the constitution. the senate can act. and is paralyzed from acting. under the rules of the senate. unless twothirds of its members decide to come to a vote on the civil rights bill. something must be basically wrong with our society and our government for this to be permitted to happen. as always happens in our country. people are showing their uneasiness. even in the south. at such a situation. this survey is something of a guide as to the degree of opposition to the civil rights bill. the people realize that with the machinery of government  always working effectively. there is a grave defect and difficulty in that machinery.
on the related question of demonstrations and their effect on the bill. it is fatuous to suppose that we can this summer avoid some demonstrations. which hopefully will be peaceable. utilizing the first amendment rights of free speech and of free assembly and petition. but etheless demonstrations. what. therefore. is the importance of the civil rights bill. the importance of the bill is that if we do  have a just answer to the deeply held grievances of the people who are demonstrating. we are in grave danger of having uncontrolled activity of that kind. on the other hand. if we do have a just answer. in my opinion we shall enlist the cooperation of the great majority of the american community. including the negro community. to see that the demonstrations remain orderly and as fine a model of compliance with the first amendment as was the march on washington last august. what is at stake is critically important. what is at stake is whether the government will give the great majority of negroes a just answer to their grievances and will give the american people the opportunity to remain abreast of the situation. however. if we do  do that. there will be a breakdown in government. and the government will place the people in a difficult position. because answer will have been given where one is required. people will feel that there is something really wrong with the machinery of government if it can help them. so a vote for cloture would be a vote. in great part. for the integrity of the american machinery of government. even more than it would be a vote with respect to civil rights. i believe that this survey is strong evidence to that effect. . i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record excerpts from the survey to which i have referred.
i thought the senator did. he said that if i could tell him why if new york had such a successful fepc law. the people of his state do  rush up to copy new yorks methods. the fact is that the constitutional rights of an individual must be observed wherever he may be. whether in new york or in arkansas. in new york we are ready to face the issue. but apparently our friends in arkansas are . that. i think. is one difference between us. we are willing to take the demonstrations. and we are willing to have the law apply across the board. we want it to apply across the country.
. one of the unjustified attacks on the pending civil rights bill which has recently been circulated. is directed against section 302 of the bill. on behalf of the senator from oregon and myself. as the designated bipartisan "floor captain" of title iii. i would like to point out the invalidity of that argument. section 302 authorizes the attorney general to intervene in actions instituted in the federal courts seeking relief from the denial of equal protection of the laws on account of race. color. religion. or national origin. this would permit the federal government to become a party to privately brought suits to enforce the equal protection clause of the 14th amendment. it is considerably narrower than the traditional part iii proposal. which would have authorized the filing of such suits by the attorney general.  only intervention. and would have authorized redress of all rights. privileges. and immunities guaranteed by the 14th amendment.  only equal protection of the laws. the 14th amendment extends only to state action. so that governmental officials of the states and their subdivisions would be the defendants in suits in which the attorney general would be authorized to intervene.  private individuals. thus the specter of the "financial and governmental might of the united states" pitted against an individual is in way raised by section 302. at present the financial and governmental might of various states is often pitted against individuals. claiming deprivations of constitutional rights on account of race. who are least able to maintain expensive litigation themselves. this is the major reason for section 302. which is a narrowly limited attempt to even up the balance by permitting the federal government to appear before the courts on the side of the individual claiming a constitutional right. against state officials and state governments which seek to deny him that right.  is there anything in section 302 which conceivably justifies the statement that it would give the attorney general power to intervene in suits against public officials "for the purpose of making them conform to his desires." section 302 does  in any way enlarge the relief obtainable  by an individcx605 ual capable of litigating by himself for redress of a breach of equal protection. it adds  a single substantive right or cause of action to what the courts have repeatedly said constitutes such a deprivation on account of race. color. religion. or national origin. it simply permits the attorney general to become a party to such a suit so that he can represent the national interest in protecting that existing constitutional right. it seems to us the only objection anyone can really mount against this is that they do  wish to see the equal protection clause enforced.
that is very important. and i am glad that the occupant of the chair. who ruled on those questions. is  in the chair. because  that the emotion of the moment is over. i believe it is extremely important that every senatorboth of the majority and the miityshould have clearly spelled out what happened. for the right to call a senator to order is precious and sacred to every single senator. i charge myself with having failedalthough the situation did  permit itto be on my feet to join in some effort to understand clearly what happened. and how it did or did  affect the rights of senators. in that same spirit. i am grateful to the senator from florida for indulging me this time. and i should like to make a further parliamentary inquiry.
subsequently said: . i should like to say a word about a subject which was discussed by the senator from georgia. i was unaware of exactly what he was discussing until i saw an excerpt from an article in the new york times. which he had placed in the record earlier today. the article deals with the decision of certain lawyers in new york to form a corps to aid civil rights efforts in the south. i should like to express a word of approval for what those lawyers are doing. it is something that the american bar ought to do. and which i have repeatedly exhorted it to do. namely. provide legal representation for people who need such representation. on a legal aid society basis. when people can otherwise attain such legal representation. whatever may be the assertions of our colleagues from the south. the fact is that we have had volumes of reports presented to us by the u.s. civil rights commission showing a most outrageous deprivation of rights in voting. education. the administration of justice. and many other fields. in which the law already provides for the safeguarding of equal opportunity. one of the things that has worried people like myself mostand it has been referred to on the floor by me. and by the senator from connecticut as recently as yesterdayis that if the door to the courts is barred. either from a practical standpoint because legal representation is  available. or because there is law to cover the situation. the opening to the streets. unfortunately. is always there. involving great danger to public order and tranquility. i should think that our friends from the south would welcome the fact that adequate legal representation would be made available. in the highest tradition of the bar. in order that these rights may be litigated and safeguarded under the law. so that people may  be frustrated and chagrined and made bitter by the fact that there is opportunity for them to assert their legal rights in court because lawyers are available to them. i have on many occasions called attention to antibarratry statutes in southern states. and to the social and ecoic ostracism which affects those who would seek to afford to negroes urgently needed representation in civil rights cases. it seems to me that what the new york lawyers propose to do is above the civil rights battle and above criticism. a lawyer should be permitted to do his bounden duty where it is urgently needed for people who would otherwise be denied effective representation. i commend those lawyers for doing their duty. and approve of their action. it is in the finest tradition of the bar.
. there is really a substantive right involved. the substantive right in brief is this. can debate be ended upon this resolution by invoking a constitutional right that the senate may change its own rules free of the inhibition of the cloture provisions in rule xxii. or must rule xxii be complied with. this is the substantive question. however the senate may decide. it is inconceivable to me that any senator would wish to deprive a member of the right to make this argument because of waiver or estoppel. or because of the pettifogging argument that business had interfered. and that. therefore. whatever constitutional rights might have accrued at the opening of the session had  been lost. i submit that. in all decency and ho. in accordance with the precedents which we ourselves have established at the beginning of a number of congresses. either by unanimous consent or at the appropriate time on an appropriate ruling of the chair. it should be made clear that this matter having been raised at the appropriate time. whatever the business of the senate might be in the intervening timewhether consideration of a committee. or otherwisesenator will lose the fundamental right to claim whatever he might claim at the time he made the motion. that is all that the argument is about. i respectfully submit that it does  do the senate any good. in the eyes of the country. which finds it very hard to understand what we are talking about if we engage in this kind of debate when it seems to me the issue is so very clear. i respectfully submit that i doubt very much that any senator proposes seriously to deny to the mover his right to proceed. whatever might have been the validity of his argument at the time he made the motion. whatever else might have intervened for the convenience of the senate.
 of the united states himself has seen fit to make a statement assuring congressand he said it within the context of the selma situationthat he is sending legislation to us so that we may act. in order to facilitate the recognition and the enjoyment of the voting right by our negro citizens. especially in the south.
i should like to finish my thought. i say to the senator that his attitude on this subject has been excellent i spoke most feelingly yesterdayand many others also have spoke the events in selma. ala. i k the president has  acted in respect of marshals. or whatever other security forces are required. to assure the citizens of the united states of their constitutional rights and to deal with the terror which was substituted for law on sunday. i do  k what will happen to this suggestionand of course the plan has  yet been disclosed. the problem concerns  only the interest of citizens in alabama. which is at stake. but the very life and morality of the nation is at stake
. the senators position is critically important. it is most statesmanlike that he will do more than merely say it will happen. because i have heard him actually pledge himself to use his best efforts to see that it does. and that there will be action by voting on a rights bill.
it is one thing for crackpots. sick people. criminals. or those so blinded by hatred that they do  k the difference between right and wrong. to try to plant bombs. they can do that in new york. chicago. philadelphia. detroit. hartford. or in any other city in this country. but it is aher thing when the machinery of government and the power of government is turned against the people to deny them the fundamental rights which they possess under the constitution. that is what is being protested by countless citizens. including myself. with regard to gover wallace and the socalled lawenforcement officials of the state of alabama. . i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a fine editorial on this subject. published in the new york herald tribune today. entitled "the cult of the battleax."
. i ask unanimous consent that there be included. as a part of the debate on the pending bill. s. 1564. the report of the committee on federal legislation and the committee on the bill of rights of the association of the bar of the city of new york. which in my opinion sustains the constitutionality of the pending bill.
. i am sure that the experience of the senator has indicated many times that imperfections. difficulties. and mistakes occur. in this case. it was  a mistake. it was merely  covered according to the senators presentation at the present moment. the only way in which one can and shouldand i have done it. and the senator has done itcorrect those things is the way it has been doneby the facts disclosed. and disclosed just as much on the public record as was our report. we are  to be diverted. by reference to the number of counties in florida which may be covered. from the fundamental proposition that there is widespread and prevalent discrimination in voting over a very important and large section of the country. i do  ascribe guilt by association. i am  saying that that statement applies to the counties to which the senator refers. or any other county as to which there is a factual demonstration. but i do  want to get off on a tangent from the fact that there is widespread denial of rights of people in the country so that we need federal legislation
i point out to the senator from louisiana. with respect to the specific point that he makes. that an effort to qualify before the local officials should be made before the trigger is pulled by the attorney general. and that there is a provision in the bill in that regard with respect to the attorney general having discretion. that language appears at the top of page 21. lines 1 to 6. i should like to read it into the record. i am sure that the senator is very well acquainted with it. the provision isthat the attorney general may require the applicant in such state or political subdivision to allege further that. within ninety days preceding his application. he has been denied under color of law the opportunity to register or to vote or has been found  qualified to vote by a person acting under color of law. that is section 7(a) with relation to the right of the examiner when appointed to register a voter. so i think we have made an effort. again i invite the creative resources of the senator in relation to that point. but i think we have made an effort to deal with it. in fact. even as to the triggers. socalled. in section 4(b). which are really the heart of this bill. it must be ed that in every case. even where there is an automatic trigger. the attorney general must press it. in other words. the action will  happen by itself. the attorney general must press the trigger. if the vote is less than 50 percent. and 20 percent of the population is negro. the attorney general will get a petition. and he must decide: yes. he will. or  he will . he must press it when less than 25 percent of the negro population has voted. that is aher one of the triggers. there. again. he must act. he must put the machinery in motion. he must put it in gear. if he is going to seek examiners. even in the case of examiners. he must determine what qualifications shall apply. for example. the senator from louisiana spoke of an effort to qualify in good parishes before registrations are actually begun by an examiner. here is an area of creativity. i see reason why senators from the southand again. i do  include the senator from louisiana . because he may have somewhat different views in this particular casecan. at the same time that they strongly oppose. out of the depths of their consciences. the bill on the ground that it is unconstitutional and deprives states of rights under the constitution. consider creatively the benefits of the bill. and give us all the benefit of their thinking as to how they believe it could be made more practical. i pledge myself never to argue that that would be an admission against interest. i am confident that the rest of usthe other 11 on the committeefeel just as i do. we would welcome such creative effort. so long as we are going to take action anyway. let us try to do it in the right way. without in any way assuming that it is an abandonment of a basic position. stoutly and firmly put forth against the bill or any part of it.
. reserving the right to object. i have in mind the possibility of moving to amend the williams amendment. a member of the senate could easily hold the floor from  until 4:30 p.m. and prevent any other amendment. can the majority leader tell us what provision he would like to make with respect to allowing the williams amendment to be debated and amended. if need be. so that senators may have their rights protected.
. we heard almost every argument made against this billand the amendment seeks to strike out the very heart of the billwhen we were discussing title ii of the civil rights act of 1964. the public accommodations sections. at that time the proponents. just as the proponents . could  cite precedents which were precisely on all fours. as we lawyers say. with what was proposed to be done. but we felt the factual basis which had been laid for the legislation. when added to the principles established by the cases. demonstrated its constitutionality. we turned out to be right. precisely the same issue is involved today. i consider this to be a decisive point: the cases clearly indicate that qualifications for voting are in the hands of the states. the cases also indicate that this power is subject to the supreme power of the united states under the 15th amendment to the constitution. that is the case in regard to the suspension of tests or devices under this bill. the congress has as the basis of fact the lack of success in eradicating voter discrimination with judicial proceedings under the acts of 1957. 1960. and 1964. and previous acts. therefore the congress must do what is needed to implement the safeguards of the 15th amendment. it must find a new way to safeguard those rights which is compatible with a reasonable implementation of the right sought to be safeguarded. we submit that the triggering devices contained in the section of the bill which the ervin amendment seeks to strike are reasonable implementations. based upon experience. and necessary in order to safeguard the right guaranteed by the 15th amendment. there is question that the right guaranteed by the 15th amendment is superior to the power of the states to fix the qualifications of voters. that is the very meaning of the 15th amendment. it came later than and modifies the earlier provision of the constitution. so the real question is whether or  the socalled triggering devices are reasonably adapted to safeguard the rights which are sought to be protected by the - 15th amendment.
the situation as i see it is that when the triggering devices are measured against the states to which they apply. we find we are reaching just about those areas. on the whole. although  in every casewe can possibly tailor legislation that neatlyin which experience has shown that previous laws cdngress has enacted have  been as effective as they should be in safeguarding the 15th amendment. the fulcrum of the argument is that. once that right is denied. it represents an irremediable loss. because a person can later cast a vote. it is for these reasons that i believe the scheme of this law will be held constitutional as a reasonable way. withstanding the very astute argument made by the senator from th carolina that it reaches county a and does  reach county b. it can be perfect. but it reaches the places congress has found need to be reached in order to safeguard the rights under the 15th amendment. therefore. i believe the constitutionality of the provision will be sustained. i believe the measure to be as limited as it can reasonably be drawn. and yet take care of conditions which facts show require action by the congress.
 the senator from indiana has made a fine argument. as has the senator from kentucky by his questions. with respect to the issue of constitutionality which is involved here and with respect to the mandate to the attorney general to sue. they are quite correct in the argument that if this amendment were adopted it would  stand up under the first amendment to the constitution. leaving aside the question of practicality. i rise because i see the main thrust of the amendment directed at those who come from new york. illis. or massachusetts. and go into mississippi or alabama. where there are civil rights problems. in order to help the people of those states. today. they have been characterized as interlopers who :ire causing the difficulty. some young people have lost their lives in this effort. and i could  sit here and fail to speak at least in their names. because they have been martyrs in the cause of full equality. if it could be claimed that any people have civil rights. it also is the right of citizens to go into a community to protest the denial of the rights of people in that community and to help them receive those rights. i am  for indulgence of the law.  do i say it should  be applied to all people. whether they go from new york or chicago into alabama or mississippi. or go from alabama or mississippi to new york or chicago. but the enforcement of the law should be equally applicable to everyone. the civil right to protest is just as important and effective a civil right as the right to vote in the particular community in which the people who have been denied that right live. i speak in the name of hundreds of young men and women who have undergone great dangers. and some of whom have lost their lives. in their effective efforts for civil rights and in protesting the denial of those rights to others.
what we are really discussing is a method by which a fundamental purpose can be achieved. in the case of most waivers. i believe that there would probably have to be compulsory licensing in order to preserve the very thing which we are trying to protect: the development and exploitation of patents. it is for that reason that i should like to ask the senator a question. the senator will find at the top of page 2 the following words: he may waive all or any part of the rights of the united states under this section with respect to any inventiondoes the author of the amendment construe that language to mean that the administrator could carry on a policy of compulsory licensing as a condition of waiver. as well as recapture rights. although the rights of the united states. if narrowly construed. might merely mean the right of the united states as a government to use the invention. although those words are very limited in the text. i do  believe that the senator has any such limitation in mind as to the conditions of waiver which would have to be met.
exactly. the trend should be arrested. it is much easier to do that in the open. on the floor of the senate and on the floor of the house. than in the privacy of an executive department. madam president. these are  the only questions. there are many others of equal importance to be answered. indeed. one of the most vital questions is this: what do we expect to gain from a decision to commit increasing numbers of u.s. troops to ground combat roles. we seem to be girding ourselves for a long and bloody summer in the hope that. in senator fulbrights words. "when the current vietcong offensive has run its course without decisive result. the communists will be disposed to take a different view of our standing proposal for unconditional negotiations." i would  be quite so sanguine as the senator from arkansas about the prospects of successfully forcing the communists to the conference table by denying them their hopedfor military victories this summer. and this summer stalematewhat will it cost in casualties to achieve it. i am  saying. "do  do it"-for it may. in the last analysis. be the least painful of all the alternatives. but i do  foresee a rush to the conference table as a probable result. let us  once again be blinded by unwarranted optimism about vietnam. if one remembers hing else i say. i hope he will remember this. we hear so many stories that the troops will be back in 1 year. or that we are on top of the situation. only to see it all disintegrate within a week or a month. let us then  be blinded by unwarranted optimism. the situation in vietnam is very rough and very difficult. with the sorry prospect of intensified hostilities around the corner. we simply must redouble our search for an hoable peace. we can just resign ourselves to battle out the summer and then try again. i am. therefore. pleased to see the administration welcoming fresh efforts by prime minister wilson and looking to the forthcoming afroasian conference for some new initiative. and while we have correctly held to our position that we will  recognize the vietcong at the conference table. the secretary of state has gone far toward making even this one condition to peace talks palatable by agreeing  to question the composition of the opposing delegation. all these efforts on our" part to achieve a peaceful solution .are commendablethey are more than commendable: they are essential. i am sure the president is continuing our quest for peace in every way open to him. he will need great wisdom. as well as great creativity and imagination. if we are to avoid aher korea in vietnam. i wholeheartedly support himas i always havein those efforts. and i have little doubt i will be supporting him as we debate and enact an appropriate resolution.
. in regard to this bill. i wish to say very briefly that there are some problems created by the bill with respect to the control of those who may enter the profession of actuary. one of these problems concerns possible discrimination in membership policies. a second question concerns the possible mooly aspects of control of admission to the profession. questions concerning states rights would also be created in view of the federal incorporation. however. we feeland i have consulted with the author of the bill. the senator from connecticut . and with the senator from illis on this subjectthat the actual carrying out of the authority given by the bill would be in accordance with the strictest consideration and attention to these problems and our reliance upon the assurances that the bill will be administered with intelligence. judgment. and fairness. it was with that kledge that i joined as a cosponsor of the measure. i make this brief statement of record so that those who continue to consider this legislation and. if enacted. those who will administer it. will realize that it confers very important rights. and so that they may be aware of the basis upon which i believe that the senate is acting on the measure today. this authority. after all. is within control of the laws of the united states. i express the expectation that even after the enactment of the bill. it will be administered without discrimination. wisely. in the broad public interest. and with the complete freedom to deserving and talented people to enter the profession. i thank the majority leader for having brought up the bill at this time.
title vi provides something very different. reading from section 602. each federal department and agency which is empowered to extend federal financial assistance to any program or activity. by way of grant. loan. or contract other than a contract of insurance or guarantee. is authorized and directed to effectuate the provisions of section 601 with respect to such program or activity. in short. it is only when a federal department or agency is helping a program or activity that it has any authority in this field. that is the reason why i asked the senator what the reach of his amendment was. whether he was correcting the commissioner because he was administering title vi of the civil rights act wrongly. or whether the senator intended to change the substantive law. i say to the senator that if he can demonstrate that the commissioner is wrongly administering a section. i would want to do everything i could to see that he correctly administered it. however. i certainly will  be a party to changing title vi of the civil rights act when it comes to allowing federal money to go to any fraternity or sororityi do  care how private it iswhich would use that federal money to deny rights to a negro or to somebody else that that fraternity or sorority does  like because of race. color. or national origin.
. it is a fact of american life that the people in local community organizations are forever on the firing line. in maintaining the true spirit of freedom of expression and freedom of thought which is so essential a part of the american dream. this was true in the 1940s and 1950s. when dedicated and courageous men and women in the small union halls throughout the nation fought day and night to rid the american labor movement of communist influence. these men and women succeeded but  without great personal sacrifices of time. talent. and patienceoften they were made the targets of abuse for their patriotic efforts. it is true today. when the threat to american philosophy and tradition comes from a different sourcethose elements of the radical right which tend to use the same tactics used by the communists of the 1930s and 1940s to silence opposition and to impose their beliefs on our people. in meeting halls and school auditoriums in many parts of the country. the old communist tactic of smearing anyone who opposes them as antiamerican or antipatriotic is being heard again from some of the same people who  claim that it is all being done in the name of anticommunism. this new assault on freedom of expression is illustrated by the nationwide attack  being waged against the parentteachers association. national and local ptas. this is  to say that every disagreement with the aims of a local pta or opposition to it is part of the radicalright program: disagreements over the administration of our schools have always been with us and always will be. as long as parents remain interested in the education of their children. but the nationwide pattern of the radicalright attacks on ptas is too clearly general as to be worthy of vote by the congress. the pattern is outlined in an article by ernest dunbar in the september 7 issue of look magazine. entitled "the plot to take over the pta." i ask unanimous consent to have this article printed in the record.
. it is for the reason that i want to cooperate in this great reform that i signed the conference report. i pledge myself to continue to work indefatigably for the future wellbeing of cuban refugees. i feel that they are entitled to the same rights as are the many other categories of immigrants covered in the immigration law. i intend to prepare legislation in this regard. i thank my colleague for his indulgence.
i understand. etheless. we have legislative oversight. our views are very important in the country. i spoke for the purpose of putting in focus support for law enforcement and also support for people who legitimately. honestly. and peaceably exercise their rights under the constitution.
. on march 29 the 23d congress of the communist party will open its sessions in moscow. i wish to call attention to this because of the pending 8day passover holiday as it will be observed by the jews of the soviet union next month. since 1957. they have been restricted in their ability to obtain unleavened bread. the matzoh. necessary for observance of the passover by members of the jewish faith. there has been some little easing of the restraints this year but the obstacles to obtaining matzoh still continue. only in the synagogue in certain communities may this unleavened bread be baked. and even there jews must register their names with the authorities. a procedure designed to intimidate all but the courageous few. i wish to call attention to the fact that there has been considerable easing of the controls imposed upon miity groups in the soviet union. among the beneficiaries have been the poles. the kalmyks. and the volga germans. the poststalin era has been full of guarantees of liberation for the soviet people. but the jewish people. representing 1.1 percent of that nations population. are still denied rights guaranteed to them under the soviet constitution and by soviet law. they suffer deprivations  imposed on other religious or socalled national groups in the u.s.s.r. the 23d congress of the communist party being opened in moscow on march 29 is a landmark meeting. it marks the 10th anniversary of the historic denunciation of the late josef stalin by nikita khrushchev. and the opening of an era of increased liberties for the soviet people.. the convening of the 23d communist party congress. attended by delegates from every corner of the world. offers the soviets an opportunity to redeem their oftrepeated pledges of freedom from discrimination for their own miities. pledges put into the law of the u.s.s.r. i hope that the u.s.s.r. will extend to its 4 million jewish citizens the religious rights guaranteed them by soviet law and that they may be able to obtain without restriction or intimidation the matzoh necessary for the proper observance of the passover festival. a holiday commemorative of the liberation of the ancient jews from egyptian bondage. in this hope. i feel that i am joined by men of conscience throughout this nation and the world.
. i could object to the proposal. but i do  want to. i think my good faith in the senate is pretty well established. i understand what we are trying to do. and i shall cooperate in doing so. but i am  going to lose any rights because of it.
. this week representatives of the 46.000 members of the order of ahepa and its auxiliaries are convening in washington for the 44th supreme convention of the order. i join to welcome to the capital the members of the ahepa familythis week washington becomes a greek city  just in architecture but also in spirit. ahepathe american hellenic educational progressive associationhas in the 44 years since its founding in atlanta. ga.. grown to include members in the 49 states. all of canadas provinces. australia. the bahamas. and greece. during this time. its watchword has been service. service to our nation and to its people. whether engaged in the relief of earthquake victims in the greek dodecanese islands or helping those visited by floods in kansas city and hurricanes in florida. the members of ahepa. in the spirit of their order. have extended the hand of brotherhood. all americans share with the ahepa family the ancient cultural heritage of greece and the modern culture of the united states. it is this diversity within unity that makes our nation the great democracyfrom the greek d6mokratia. rule of the peoplewhich it is.
does the senator have anything in the way of assurance from the president about proposing to enforce legislation which exists. and how such legislation will be enforced. and appropriations that will be provided for agencies so that these rights may be safeguarded.
 dwight d. eisenhower. in addressing the u.n. general assembly in 1960. declared thatwe see as our goal.  a superstate above nations. but a world community embracing them all. rooted in law and justice and enhancing the potentialities and common purposes of all peoples. an indispensable element in the body of law for that world community is the system of guarantees set forth in the u.n. human rights conventions  before the senate foreign relations committee. i have long supported u.s. ratification of all four of these conventions. and i welcome the appointment of an ad hoc subcommittee and its activity this year as signs of new interest among my colleagues. it is important that this new interest be transformed into the consent to ratification requested by the administration. some may ask why the united states should go on record as favoring the political rights of women and the abolition of forced labor and slavery. when these guarantees are already fully effective in the united states. i believe this argument misses the point. it is because we can proudly claim that these rights exist in the united states. that we should take a leading role in getting international agreement to these principles. we should be embarrassed to find ourselves in the company of only a handful of nationsincluding spain and yemenwhich have yet to ratify a single human rights convention. to my regret the senate foreign relations committee did  assign the geide convention to the new subcommittee for further study and recommendations. i hope that this will be the next order of business. it is  nearly two decades since the geide convention was referred to the senate. and it is time that we finally had it before the full body for action. here again the united states should be leading.  refusing even to follow the large number of states already joined together to condemn the inhuman practice of geide. i am convinced that there is reason in law or policy which should prevent the united states from ratifying the conventions on slavery. forced labor. and the political rights of women. eminent legal scholars are unanimous on this point. leaders in both of our great political parties have repeatedly urged their ratification. group or individual has come forward to the subcommittee to oppose such ratification. i urge the subcommittee. and the full committee of which it is a part. to recommend ratification without further delay of these three important steps toward a world of law and order.
. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed at this point in the record a short biography of asa t. spaulding. apparently the principal motivator of this effort. the article is entitled "quiet rights champion." and was published in the new york times of today. i also ask unanimous consent that there be printed at this point in the record an article. entitled "wealthy negroes form new group for legal rights." written by will lissner. and published in the new york times of today
i have explained how. by giving to the negro the freedom to deal with his own forms of progress and his own patterns of action in order to endeavor to bring about improvements. i deeply believe that where there is allowed a form of coercion as serious as violence or threats of violence without redress. effective redress. and i say that advisedly. in view of the very tragic developments we have seen in this respect in the last 15 years in so many cases. there is an inhibition of selfimprovement. cooperation for selfimprovement. the courage to take advantage of opportunities which are open for improvement in these very fields which the senator described. in housing. jobs. and education. i believe it is an inhibiting factor. it is  the only factor. but it is an inhibiting factor. as we enact a network of civil rights legislation we find here is a subtle way. but a real way. in which progress can be interfered with and dammed up. it seems to me that it offends every american to feel that rights should be inhibited in terms of their efforts by violence or threats of violence. this law commends itself highly and i should think that would be so with respect to all americans without regard to their views on civil rights. whatever may be ones views on the preservation of civil rights it is enlightening to every onei do  wish to speak for the senator from louisiana because he may have different views for his own reasonsbut i think that many members here were persuaded on matters such as the poll tax. voting rights. matter how deeply they may have feltand i say that speaking generally and  personallyabout the social order which prevailed in the south for so long and who felt that those things should longer be denied. i think this is that same type of statute and of the same character. i would hope very much that it may be debated upon that ground rather than from the broad ground of civil rights legislation. like discrimination in employment or housing where there are many social and practical questions which senators wish to bring up. it seems to me that in this matterhow to effectively deal with violence or threats of violenceto inhibit people from working together to enjoy these rights should be a matter where there is considerable unanimity of opinion. i might say to the senator that i have tried in speaking  to exacerbate. or draw broad generalizations or indict because this is the kind of bill. standing by itself. that should have a minimum amount of opposition. there might be a difference of minds in terms of punishment. i think the fact that punishments here are increased is a very material aspect of this bill but i really feel it is  susceptible of the kind of strong debate which we have had on some of the other things which have occurred here in connection with civil rights legislation.
. let me say that i am confident that it will be understood that i speak with the utmost goodwill for the people of greece and the friendship and sympathy of them of the american people. it is my profound hope that out of the present dark trial greece will emerge into a new era of light combining the rights of freedom and democracy with the benefits of a new stability to which all can contribute including even the very military officers  in control of greece.
i have doubt the senator is right. only because the special drawing rights are  extensive egh in size. but the special drawing rights have a place in the beginning of a new international system. that is why i say it is a stopgap and transitional problem. i will develop this on my own time. the senator is quite right that. on his time. i should ask questions and  make a speech. in the testimony of the witnesses. is the senator at liberty to give us any indication as to what they regarded as the basic minimum gold reserve that must be maintained by the united states at all costs. so that. by my plan or anybody elses plan. they would have to stop giving it out at a given point at $35 an ounce.
do i understand that i will have a half hour on my amendment. equally divided. and that then it will be submitted to a vote. whether it comes before or after 2:30. otherwise my rights may be cut off. i may be stuck on this one. but i will be mighty well sure i am protected hereafter. i wonder if we can have an understanding on this matter.
. if i may be recognized. so that we may k exactly what is afoot. the senator from nebraska is. of course. completely within his rights in asking for the yeas and nays. i apologize to him because i thought what he was seeking was to be sure that we got the yeas and nays on the proposition of the senator from south dakota . of course. we must deal with the question of the conference report as a whole. but i want to make clear to senators. in the absence of the senator from alabama who. quite in good faith thought that this would be done routinely and so went down to a conferenceat which i was due. alsothat the only thing that will  happen. if the conference report is approved. is that each item reported in disagreement and which is set forth in the report of the managers of the house. including the item about impacted areas and other items which are in disagreement. will be called up separately. any senator who wants to do so may contest any item and seek to have the senate stand by its own position as contradistinguished to whatever the house has donein some cases. the house has adopted the position of the senate. in which case i assume there is reason for proceeding further. but in some cases the house has . as for example the one in which the senator from south dakota is quite interested. there. too. withstanding the vote. i propound again aher parliamentary inquiry.
 pro tempore of the senate. and by the miity leader that rights of any kind were being waived to raise this question by virtue of the proceedings which have taken place since the opening day of this congress. january 3.
. the measure which i have introduced clears up what it seems to me has been an oversight in the construction of the law to buttress the guarantees contained in the bill of rights and elsewhere in the constitution. i think as we constantly discover. by experience. new threats to the freedom of worship. arson being one such threat. just as much as the use of explosives is such a threat. we should make an effort to close such loopholes in the law. that is what i  seek to do. i shall do my utmost to obtain early attention to this measure. and if there are other senators who desire to join with me in this effort. i shall be hoed to have their names included as cosponsors.
. although antireligious. the soviet union does guarantee through its laws certain rights to religious groups within its borders and does permit certain practices. however. to soviet citizens the jewish faith is denied rights and practices permitted other religions within the u.s.s.r. there has been compiled a comparison of the status of judaism and the soviets other religious faiths and i ask unanimous consent to have it printed in the record.
. i should like to address myself to the main argument of the senator from georgia. which is the diversity that he claims exists. this argument was  challenged. and it must be challenged. only 5 percent of the families of the united states work on or have anything to do with farming. that is all.
until changed. second. the attorney general of the united states can be mandated. or have mandamus. to send people into a given state if he does  believe that is required. but the important thingwhat i thought we were arguingis the question of the presumption. whether 5 or 10 years. i think the key point with respect to the amendment is the experience in the period that has intervened since the act became effective. whether justified or  justified. i believe that that experience justified the extension of the period to 10 years. especially as the senator from massachusetts has pointed out. there has been an opportunity. even in the interim. to escape from the provisions of the act. and that has actually taken place in given cases. so. in my judgment. the act contains within itself fair means for dealing with the problem. i would say. certainly. that the burden of proof would be on us. that is what we are arguing. that is why i stated that the factual situation makes it proper in terms of public policy that the 5year period be extended to 10 years. so the senator is entirely within his rights in pinpointing that fact. we must be put to the proof. which we are trying to bear. i believe that we have borne it. i thank the senator from alabama.
 i do  think the senator is correct. for this reason: i think the senator is commingling two aspects of this bill. the senate bill gives exclusive bargaining rights to national unions. and therefore the socalled local unions. except under rather unusual conditions. are excluded right away. under my proposal. the house bill would prevail. it gives the bargaining rights both to national and local unions depending on what the nlrb decides. then if. by bargaining. either one of those could achieve a union shop. it would be able to achieve it. it would  be barred. so i do  think it runs afoul of the desire to preserve the opportunities of the local unions. on the contrary. it gives them an even better opportunity. as with the national union. by enabling them also to bargain for a union shop. and it does  interfere with what senator bakers substitute does for the local union which is to take them out of the prohibition against bargaining which is contained in the amendment.
i do  want to compromise the senators case in any way. i have too much affection for him and respect for the strong fight he has put up for the administration position. but if the senator feels free to say so. would  the senator agtee with me that the substantive rights of neither side will be compromised by this vote. it is really a climactic situation. the senator could move to amend the committee bill. and the committee people and i could move to amend the substitute. in either way the senate will work its will.
i think this is critically important. so that it should  be taken superficially as some expenditure of $1.5 billion. it is like depositing money in a bank in which we retain drawing rights and other proprietary interests. so that the united states has  been separated from its money. as it would be if this were a defense appropriation or an education appropriation or something like that.
. the senators position is critically important. it is most statesmanlike that he will do more than merely say it will happen. because i have heard him actually pledge himself to use his best efforts to see that it does. and that there will be action by voting on a rights bill.
. every year since 1959 americans have designated the third week in july as captive nations week to express concern for eastern europeans under communist control. and we as americans at this time should commend the spirit which has sustained them in their continuing struggle and rededicate ourselves to the restoration of their freedoms. the fundamental human rights of equal justice. human dignity. and individual libertywhich are our constitutional heritageelude onehalf of europes people. the brave endurance of these people and their persistent quest for liberty command our deepest sympathy and support. in view of relaxing tensions between the united states and the soviet bloc and efforts toward unity in western europe. we should renew our commitment to freedom in eastern europe. we need  accept as a condition for malization of relations the continued domination of the soviet union over the eastern europeans. but rather should urge the evolution of eastern europe out of its present "satellite" posture. as free and independent nations. the polish food riots in december. the struggle of czechoslovakia in the face of the soviet military occupation and earlier movements in hungary. poland. and east germany. reflect the eastern europeans courage and determination. this week. we renew our support of their efforts to regain the inalienable basic rights of freedom and selfdetermination which we so highly prize in americans.
. i am a cosponsor of the amendment. representing the state of new york. where there are so many people of puerto rican ethnic origin. i can testify to the sympathy and concern which is shared by most people in my state. along with the general population. the puerto ricans. it seems. have very deep feelings on this subject. i have joined with the senator from iowa for the reason that the moderate and considerate approach he has taken might commend itself to the manager of the bill and to the senate.
 as the senator says. it is quite difficult on the floor to work out the precise language of what we might want. the only implication i wish to rebutand i beg my colleague from new york to listen to meis the clause which he is affecting in amendment  413. on page 11. line 9. which reads as follows: and should be available as a matter of right to all children whose parents or legal guardians shall request them regardless of ecoic. social. and family backgrounds. i wish it understood that that is a negative provision in such reference to ecoic. social. and family backgrounds. and that it will  embarrass us in the fact that we can possibly reach all children regardless of ecoic. social. and family backgrounds whose parents or legal guardians may request services. we simply will  have egh money to do such a job. in addition. there are priorities among classes of children. among various parts of the child development program. as. for example. the ecoically disadvantaged. but we view the fundamental thrust of the senators amendments to be that we are  abrogating rights of privacy. rights of control by parents over their children or of legal guardians over their wards. and that we are  in any way affecting moral responsibilities which are parallel. we think what the senator has suggested will accomplish what we have in mind. but we would  wish any implication to come in here that if we can meet the standards for everybody. then we can meet them for anybody. i am sure the senator does  have that in mind.
so that the chrome ore amendment. which i am very anxious to vote on. will  come until after tomorrow. is that it. i would say to the senator that i am  a bit desirous of impeding the business of the senate. but i must hope that the leadership will consider. in these rather rapid fire unanimousconsent requests. that the rights of senators may very well be prejudiced. i assume that. as is usual here. clearance is taking place among those who might be interested. i did express an interest and did understand that only two amendments would be taken up tomorrow.  i find that there are four. i regret that. i can make any statement about it although it may be necessary in order to protect ones rights. to begin to do just that. but i k that at the time of the period for the transaction of routine morning business. just before i left the floor. i understood there would be only two amendments for tomorrow and that we were going down to 5 oclock in the aftern.  i am faced with four amendments. i wish to serve ice that certainly i will object to anything further tomorrow. it is bad egh. especially king the circumstances. when everyone ks i can be here to deal with one amendment which is very important to me. it is very embarrassing that it is coming up tomorrow. as i said. i am  standing in the way of the senates business. but i would hope that a certain amount of accommodation and understanding would obtain in respect of these matters.
. i wish to answer some of the points relating to the idea that children would. somehow or other. be taken either temperamentally or actually away from the control and jurisdiction of the father and motherhood of their parents. i point out that upon the express suggestion of my colleague from new york who voiced these ideas. as well as others. that we have in the conference bill the following provisions: section 501 (a) (2). the statement of findings and purposes clause. states the finding that comprehensive child development programs should be available to children "whose parents or legal guardians shall request them." section 580 provides: the secretary is directed to establish appropriate procedures to ensure that child shall be the subject of any research or experimentation under this title other than routine testing and mal program evaluation unless the parent or guardian of such child is informed of such research or experimentation and is given an opportunity as of right to except such child therefrom. section 581 (a) expressly provides that: hing in this title shall be construed or applied in such a manner as to infringe upon or usurp the moral and legal rights and responsibilities of parents or guardians with respect to the moral. mental. emotional. or physical development of their children. there is also a fourth provision. which the house added into the conference bill: section 515 (a) (24) dealing with comprehensive child development plans. requires that the plan provide that program or services under the title "shall be provided only for children whose parents or legal guardians have requested them." these provisions can be used as a basis for a suit. alleging that the secretary has proceeded in an arbitrary or capricious manner if he disregards those injunctions in the law. and the courts will read them and give them effect. they can be used to great effect here in terms of legislative oversight. i do  believe that that particular fear which has been featured so prominently in this debate against the bill is warranted. when one takes into account these provisions. legislative oversight. the courts. the executive department. and the press. so i hope very much that members will  be dissuaded from support of the conference report on that account but in some way motherhood and fatherhood and jurisdiction of children in a spiritual.  just a legal sense. will  be jeopardized.
. i did  complain about the senators rights or his point of view. i have been here a long time. 15 years. and with all respect. i do  believe that it is indicated that all time should have expired and the debate ended. a debate has to incubate. i have seen it happen time and again where on the 14th. or the 15th day. or the 13th day. or the 8th daywhatever is the given situationthe debate suddenly becomes hot and things come up which have  come up before. a new light is cast on a given situation somehow which takes months. like a baby. to just state the fundamental issues in a debate and argument. i think it is rather more our fault. i say to the senator. that we do  have egh senators on the floor. we are all terribly preoccupied with many. many things. i will  give an accounting for myself. although i think the senator will agree that i work as hard as anybody does here. i do want to sayand i say it unilaterallyi have desire to have controversy with the senator. but i do think in putting the matter before the country in terms of the length of debate. that something must be said for the fact that it does take a certain amount of time. even if that time is consumed in quorum calls. or days on which there is an early adjournment. in order to develop that climate and understanding which represents the consummation of a complete debate. i say that unilaterally. that is my idea.
. reserving the right to objectand i should like to consult senator williams on this subjecthow does the senator from montana expect to give us an opportunity to deal with the amendments to the dominick amendment. a number of things in the dominick amendment really deserve correctionfor all we k. it may be adoptedand therefore it has concentrated our attention upon it. frankly. i do  believe that the amendment i am  proposing is by any means frivolous. it is a serious matter and really affects the rights which will remain in the individual when. as. and if this amendment is dealt with. personally. i am thoroughly sympathetic to the senator. and i wish to cooperate with him. he ks me very well in that respect. i should like to coincide with his view. will he give us an idea as to how we can deal with these amendments to the dominick amendment within the time bracket he has mentioned.
. that one of the greatest reforms in this bill is its applicability to those who are engaged in state and local employmenti repeat. 10 million employees. the largest single block in any one calling of all the employees. as there are  about 80 million in the entire american work force. if anybody. as a matter of morality. is entitled to equal employment opportunity. it certainly is those people. and the only way they can get it. because the authority so far as they are concerned is the state. is at the hands of the united states. under the 14th amendment. section 5 of the 14th amendment. giving the power to congress to enforce by appropriate legislation the provisions of this article. it seems to me. makes it mandatory.  discretionary. in terms of the highest morality. that we act affirmatively on this aspect of this bill. for all those reasons. with the highest respect for the state and local governments--because in this case there is cease and desist power. but there is simply the power to litigatethat is the very least we can give the individualthe aid of the attorney general in litigating a case through the courts. insofar as the paramount rights under the 14th amendment are concerned. i think this is the very least we can do. to me. it is one ol the most unchallengeable parts of tht. bill. for those reasons. i hope very muct that the senate will reject this amend. ment.
we have discussed a proposal which to me is essential to preserve our rights on the pending measure and to keep the twotrack system going that. in any case. at 2:30. if this was  finished. we would go to the eeoc measure.
i wish to state that it was understood the eeoc bill would immediately follow the measure which has just been passed. i have objection whatever to this joint resolution. but i wish to preserve our rights respecting the bill. i will  object. but i wish to e that i understood the eeoc bill would be taken up immediately following adoption of the resolution.
. may i suggest to the senator from georgia. who has been waiting. that i have desire but to express the greatest courtesy to him. but i do  wish to prejudice any rights we have. considering the existing situation. i say this publicly. because i have other way of speaking to the senator. if he would be kind egh to confer with senator williams. i would endeavor. based upon his talking with senator williams. to work out his time problem. as i gather that he is anxious to get away. and i am keeping him here.
. in a recent speech before the national council of jewish women. i made a proposal that would have the effect of generating increased exports for the united states and such increased exports in turn would generate american jobs and help our balance of payments. under secretary volcker. who accompanied secretary connallyin his recent testimony before the joint ecoic committee. has testified that every $1 billion in increased exports would create approximately 50.000 jobs. my proposal is very simple although it is often phrased in unnecessary complex terms. it proposes an alternate method of special drawing rights distribution so that a greater portion of special drawing rights would be channeled to the developing world. these special drawing rights. which are recognized as official reserves. could then be used by the developing world to puichase real goods and services from developed countries such as the united states. in making this proposal. i give recognition to the fact that 12 eminent ecoists have made a similar proposal in their wellkn study on "reshaping the international ecoic order." i ask unanimous consent that the names of these 12 ecoists be printed in the record. along with my speech. to be followed by the recommendations of the ecoists as they concern the "link".
 i agree with the policies of the commissioner of education of the state of new york in respect to making those regulations. within -the law of my state. which he believes will be most conducive to the best educational opportunity for its children. it is by means the optimum. it is by means the strict ethnic standard. but there has been an effort. by mobilizing the kind of students in given schools. to try to improve the educational process over what it was.
. i have listened with great interest to the statement by the senator from arizona. e of us is alone in this body. we all serve together. there are 100 of us. the rules of the senate give each of us rights and they give us collective rights. so i am  unduly dismayed by the promise of the senator from arizona that he will speak on this measure at very great length. we have some perfecting amendments we will submit as soon as we feel the situation is appropriate. perhaps as early as today or tomorrow. we are entirely agreeable to a time certain for voting whether this matter should or should  be referred to the committee on the judiciary. with an agreement for an appropriate period of debate to precede that submittal to the senate. the senator from arkansas has amendments which we hope very much he will press forward with. finally. the senator from maryland
. when thomas whittle called upon me to present this petition. he used that opportunity to articulate the sense of frustration which many members of the syracuse. university community .feel with rbspect to what they regard as the unresponsiveness of their elected representatives to their viewpoint and their actions of peaceful and lawful protest and petition. in my meeting with mr. whittle. chancellor eggers. and dean sawyer. i assured them that their views would  go unheard and unheeded. i also used the occasion to commend the syracuse university community and its representative leaders for this most proper and responsible exercise of their rights and responsibilities as citizens of the united states. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the text of the petition. subscribed to by more than 6.000 members of the syracuse university community. and the text of the reply which i have sent through mr. whittle to all members of the syracuse university community.
i have great sympathy for the amendment. especially as the senator has  included. after the word "representation" the words "funded under this act." which were seriously needed. but i am troubled about two other things. one is the definition of "legal representation." and the other the words "expects to be a grantee." with regard to legal representation we have a definition of legal services in the bill on page 125. which includes the following: legal advice. legal representation. legal research. education concerning legal rights and responsibilities. and similar activities. will the senator make the legislative record that the words "legal representation" mean the actual and direct representation by a lawyer of a client.
. the yearly observance of captive nations week expresses our sense of solidarity and support of the desire for freedom and independence of the peoples of the captive nations of east europe. captive nations week. established by public law 8690. of which i was a cosponsor. emphasizes that the people of the united states. through their representatives in congress. do  and can forget the plight of those east european peoples whose fundamental human rights and aspirations for national independence are still denied them today. u.s. ties with the peoples of eastern europe particularly are bonds of sympathy and understanding. they are ties of family. culture. and religion for millions of our citizens who trace their origins to those lands. they are also ties of history and tradition as the names of such american heroes as kossuth. pulaski. and kosciuszko bear out. and these nations themselves have derived inspiration and assistance from the united states in their own historic quests for national independence. recent farreaching diplomatic achievements such as the salt agreements. the four power berlin treaty. and chancellor brandts "ostpolitik." and the forthcoming european security conference and the parallel mbfr negotiations all seek a malization of relations between east and west in europe. but malization must  be allowed to mean acquiescence in the perpetual denial of human freedom in onehalf of an artificially divided europe. in our own search for stability in our relationship with the u.s.s.r.. we must  sacrifice our own dedication to the principles of freedom and human dignity. the harsh reality of repression and the continuing struggle for independence and freedom of expression throughout eastern europe reaffirms our resolve to use all our resources of diplomacy. morality. and world public opinion so that freedom is ultimately realized again by the peoples of the captive nations. we must  fail these captive nations by muting our expressions of concern and solidarity as elements of an overall "bargain of convenience" with the soviet union. to do so would be a betrayal of ourselves and the freedom for which men and women have fought and sacrified for centuries and which is the base of our own freedom.
the senator understands me perfectly and i hope the senator from alabama will also. i have complaint about what occurred. as a matter of fact. everybody has been very accommodating. i was  here at the first reading. i could  be. and yet the leadership was perfectly ready and did protect our rights to see that the second reading was  then carried on by unanimous consent.  have i any complaint about the senator from alabama  am i trying to get any commitment from him. he has acted within his rights and he has acted under the rules. the senator from alabama ks the rules extraordinarily well for a new member and he has every right to avail himself of them. i was directing attention to the problem of the leadership in dealing with so extensive an issue. which could be put on a bill. on which there could be germane amendments. i have consulted with the parliamentarian. i wish to give ice  that i shall object to any unanimousconsent request which allows germane amendments from  until the end of the session. we consider a lot of business here in an hour. in a day. and in a week that might be convenient to the mover and very inconvenient to the overwhelming number of senators. if senators wish to speak on matters they have to be here and if they are  here the amendment would be acted on in the absence of speakers. if such an amendment were brought up. the senator from alabama. and he is very diligent in his attendance. can be here every minute the senate is in session. as i have pointed out. the matter will go on the calendar tomorrow. but it will give us a chance to meet with other members. to meet with the leadership. to see what we can do in an hoable way to work out the matter to avoid disadvantage to the opponents. but without exacting a promise from the proponents. like the senator from alabama. which we could  get. that was my sole purpose. i state it very clearly. i have learned through a long career here that if matters are laid on the table. justice is generally done. and i have every confidence it will be done in this case.
madam president. on this very issue it has been made clear that the rights are reserved. including the right to move when the unfinished business is over. i think the senator from alabama even said "this unfinished business"-to wit. todays unfinished business. i simply wish. in return. to serve ice that the very purpose of my colloquy with the leadership was to deal with precisely those situations. we might get into a situation in which the floor has to be monitored every minute in order to avoid what i have defined as surpriseto wit. the bringing up of this matter upon the will of any member at a time when there may be possibility even to debate it because senators simply are  here or do  k about it. and business can finish here in a very summary way. on the consent or other calendar. so i reiterate my hope that we will  legislate by stratagem without in any way trying to deprive any senator of his rights. but depending on the leadership to see that a full and orderly debate is possible in respect of so important a measure. for myself. i do  consider that anybody should exact any promises from me. any more than i am exacting promises from anybody else. it is a leadership problem.  a problem for any member. and i reserve every right i have.
. i do  wish any implication to be made that i am happy about the division of the money for the social services or the limitation by stating that i am  standing in the way of this amendment for the reasons i have stated. i wish to make it clear that i still reserve whatever rights i may have to deal with this question in some other context and in some other way. but for the purpose of this amendment and what the senator from alaska has done. and i think he rightfully asks for. and what the senator from louisiana has agreed to. i interpose objection.
 nixon agreed with us in 1957 when he gave his advisory opinion that the constitutional right of a majority of the senate to adopt new rules at the beginning of a new congress could  be inhibited by the twothirds requirement of rule xxii regarding cloture. but we do  intend to take weeks of the senates valuable time on this rather arcane question in the absence of some assurance from our opponentsand e is availablethat we will be permitted to vote. this year. we have devised a resolution which combines the approach of those who favor threefifth. limitation of debate and those of us who want a constitutional majority of the senate to be able to act. under the provisions of our proposal. during the first 2 weeks of debate. cloture can be obtained by twothirds of those present and voting. during the third and fourth week of debate. cloture can be invoked by a threefifth vote and. thereafter. by a constitutional majority. we believe this proposal is reasonable and fair. and hope that it will receive serious consideration by the rules committee to which it will be referred. we hope that their deliberation. and hopefully hearings on reforms of this type will be persuasive with those of our colleagues who  oppose us. and we reserve our rights to vote on this rule change at any time during the year when the committee may report. finally. i wish to recall to my colleagues. what i said during debate on this issue at the beginning of the last congress. after outlining the issues on which the liberals might want to filibuster during the 92d congress i asked particularly my southern colleagues to consider whether they really wanted to leave this tool in the hands of the liberals. i warned that "some day soonand i say this very seriouslywe will begin to use them." perhaps our opponents should have heeded this warning. for during the 92d congress more than half the cloture petitions were filed to stop "extended debate" by liberalson the extension of the draft. the lockheed loan guarantee bill. the rehnquist ination. and the antibusing bill. there is   a single member of this bodybarring new memberswho has never voted for cloture. withstanding the possibility that liberals may be drawn increasingly to the tactic of preventing votes by talking. most of us would gladly sacrifice this practice to establish the right of majority rule. i sincerely hope that recent changes in cloture votes on specific issues can be translated into support for a realistic reform of the cloture rule in general.
. we must finally. at this point in time. accept the responsibility that is ours. ours.  only as legislators. but as citizens in this country that has at its roots the political doctrine of equal rights for all people. we must  act to insure these basic rights to the mentally retarded. and that is why i have again introduced the "bill of rights for the mentally retarded." exhibit 1
. i refer specifically to section 221(c) of the bill. which would amend section 401(a) of the internal revenue code by inserting at the end of paragraph (5) of section 401 (a) the following: "for purpose of determining whether two or more plans of an employer satisfy the requirements of paragraph (4) when considered as a single plan. if the amount of contributions on behalf of the employees allowed as a deduction under section 404 for the taxable year with respect to such plans. taken together. bears a uniform relationship to the total compensation. or the basic or regular rate of compensation. of such employees. the plans shall  be considered discriminatory merely because the rights of employees to. or derived from. the employer contributions under the separate plans do  become forfeitable at the same rate. for purposes of determining whether two or more plans of an employer satisfy the requirements of paragraph (4) when considered as a single plan. if the employees rights to benefits under the separate plans do  become forfeitable at the same rate. but the levels of benefits provided by the separate plans satisfy the requirements of regulations prescribed by the secretary or his delegate to take account of the differences in such rates the plans shall  be considered  to satisfy such requirements merely because of the differences in such rates." it is the substitute of the finance committee which is  pending before the senate as original text of the bill. i ask the senator from wisconsin. and i would also appreciate the attention of the senator from new jersey whether i am correct in my assumption. which i base upon the language of the accompanying committee report. senate report  93383. beginning at page 53 of the report. that this amendment was adopted in response to a problem described in testimony by various engineering societies.
 then i shall have concluded. i think the various points of view on vesting have been accurately stated. however. whatever the situation of a single employer. we are talking about an emous diversity of employers. we are talking about making vesting apply nationwide without going the route of social security. we are going the route of private enterprise. which we think will work out infinitely better. so both the employer and the employee will have a system for the future. so we lay that argument before the senate as the reason why feel our route is better. i urge the senate to reject the amendment.
. at this stage. i would feel that the matter has been very thoroughly considered and that every committee that had any interest has had a full opportunity to dig into the matter. the rules of procedure in the senate protect the right of everyone. a motion could have been made to send this bill to the judiciary committee if that were the disposition of any senator. a complete substitute could have been offered for the whole bill. amendments can be offered to any part of a bill. i do  see that anyones rights have been invaded if a majority of the senate is with what is considered to be the right course to take. including. by the way. a motion to table the bill. the senate has tabled bills. and it is a very legitimate motion.
i k of situation in which. if senators feel they would like to appear before a committee. testify before a committee. and present whatever ideas they may have to a committee. including my committee on labor and public welfare. that they would be denied that right. or have been denied that right. i would like to k about that. if the senator claims that in this case. but to backtrack through the whole process by which legislation comes to the floor. especially when rights whatever have been lostthe senator has every right to propose anything he wishes on this bill. any committee has the right to move to send this bill to that committee. ones rights have been shut off at all.
i think i would rather let the senator speak than i. i think i have answered the question. the fact that the senator was  here. it seems to me. is  directly relevant to the situation. as he has lost rights of any kind.
when the senator speaks of majority. i am egh of a lawyer to k that many people who holler are those whose ox is being gored. but the democrats on a committee can also take the bit in their teeth. i only suggest that the other side of the point be considered. and that is the rights of the total miity of the committee.
there is question about that. . and in addition to the constitutional rights of the indigent. which have often been denied before. there is the additional fact that this is the one program that is relatively ecoical in money. that represents for its size an emous bulk in terms of the rehabilitation of the poor. who feel justifiably that they. too. have the dignity and standing to have their rights protected in america. and to have a lawyer.
i understand that and he has done so. as i understand it. senator bartlett. would you tell us this: your amendment uses the word "or" at the beginning of line 4 of the amendment after the word "mother". is that a disjunctive or a conjunctive. the reason for asking that is this: is it the purpose of the senators amendment to prevent legal services from compelling anyone to do anything. either the prospective patient or the hospital. or the doctor. and so forth. from acting in respect to. "an abortion contrary to the religious beliefs or moral convictions of such individuals or institutions." we have done that here a number of times. if the senators purpose. on the other hand. is to make that disjunctive to cover the first three lines. that raises the direct question of action for a poor person to enable that person to do what he may wish to do. may we k what is the senators purpose. because that word "or" could be construed either way. either as conjunctive or disjunctive.
but if that is the thrust of it. i think. with the understanding that we may have to make that thrust clear in conference. personally i see objection to it. but perhaps the manager of the bill would have a different view. i might say to the senator from wisconsin that. as i construe it. what the senator is seeking to do is to prevent legal services from being used to compel an individual or an institution from doing something with respect to abortion which is against the religious beliefs or the moral convictions of that individual or that institution.
i thank my colleague i shall. . if what we are trying to establish is to make the united states. after a quarter of a century. a party to a universal declaration that one of the rights of man is  to be eliminated simply because he is a member of some group which some dictator or some other group does  like and seeks to completely eliminate. it seems to me that this is so inherent in the institutions of justice. if we are to have any hope in this world. as to deserve in very high measure the attention of the senate.
. i am deeply gratified to join with senator randolph. chairman of the handicapped subcommittee of the labor and public welfare committee. of which i am ranking miity member. in the introduction of the developmentally disabled assistance and bill of rights act. the bill incorporates as title ii thereof my bill of rights for the mentally retarded. s. title i of the instant bill extends and substantially modifies the program operation of the developmental disabilities services and facilities construction amendments of 1970. as senator randolph set forth in detail in his introductory remarks. i am particularly gratified that the present definition of developmentally disabled has been broadened to include. as well as those suffering from mental retardation. cerebral palsy or epilepsy. autism. and learning disability. or any other condition which is closely related to mental retardation as it refers to general intellectual functioning or impairment in adaptive behavior. or to require treatment similar to that required by mentally retarded individuals. when i introduced s. 1654. the administration bill which would have broadened the definition by including "autism"-which i supportedi urged the inclusion of learning disability and i am pleased that this bill carries forward my recommendation. the bill is an important contribution to establishing a truly national commitment to the deinstitutionalization of the mentally retarded and other individuals with developmental disabilities and at the same time insuring that those mentally retarded and other developmentally disabled citizens who require institutionajization receive humane care. treatment. habilitation. and protection. the commitment of the chairman of the handicapped subcommittee. senator randolph. to the inclusion of my bill of rights in a comprehensive bill serving the needs of the developmentally disableda bill which is cosponsored by 24 senators including the chairman of the labor and public welfare committee. senator williams. the chairman of the health subcommittee. senator kennedy. and the ranking miity member of the handicapped subcommittee. senator stafford. marks recognition that assistance with safeguards- exemplified by my bill of rightswhich had such broad bipartisan cosponsorshipis the appropriate way for the congress to proceed. in regard to this critically important area. . the bill of rights for the mentally retardedwhich has been modified to insure that its safeguards apply to all developmentally disabled citizensutilizes standards developed under the leadership of the accreditation council for facilities for the mentally retarded by committees representing all the disciplines and interests that must be involved in providing fully adequate programs for the mentally retarded and other individuals with developmental disabilities. i believe the federal government has an obligation to implement and ho the commitment to provide humane care and treatment to the institutionalized mentally retarded and other individuals with developmental disabilities. and to deemphasize longterm institutionalization. i believe that when the committee completes its hearings on this measure.  scheduled for may 1. the case will be complete for the senate shortly thereafter to pass this landmark legislation. by mr. robert c. byrd (for
. i congratulate my colleagues on this concurrence in a feasible plan with respect to this amendment. i am particularly gratified. as the author of a measure called the bill of rights for the mentally retarded. i like very much the amendment of senator stafford. which uses as its body the amendment of senator mathias. because it does proceed along those lines and specifies. in the field of education. the concept of the rights of the mentally retarded. this being the direction of the courts. as we  k from the decisions of the supreme court. it is most admirable work by all parties. and i congratulate them. i urge the senate to accept the amendment. as amended. indeed. i hope that a roilcall vote will  be necessary. as there seems to be opposition whatever to this plan of procedure.
. i gather that the purpose of this amendment is to upgrade certain positions in the office of career education. the administration objects to the entire provision for specifying grade levels. and putting a director in charge of this office. there is a pending amendment by the ranking miity member of the subcommittee to strike out the whole sentence. i feel that i would have to contest the hathaway amendment  before us unless it were agreedand i ask that as a parliamentary inquirythat withstanding the amendment. an amendment would be in order to strike the whole sentence. which i understand that one or more of our members may desire to do. i am  sure. but i want to be sure that his rights are preserved.
. today the congress is hoed by the presence of jozsef cardinal mindszenty. the rekned hungarian cardinal. who is famous throughout the world for his indefatigable forthrightness in defense of human liberties and hungarian independence. at extreme danger to his own personal safety and wellbeing. and under years of "house arrest" cardinal mindszenty has consistently and stubbornly fought totalitarianism in whatever form it has appeared. whether it was hitlers racism and fascismor communist domination and suppression. his life is crowded with incidents demonstrating his unending commitment to his convictions. i will mention only one which i believe is typical of this heroic man: of german origin himself. during the late 1930s. he changed his name from the germanic pehm to mindszentythe name of his native hungarian villagewhen hitler was calling on people of germanic origin in eastern europe to assert their socalled aryan identity. for this and similar acts of human dignity and courage. cardinal mindszenty was later imprisoned by fascist and then communist dictators. cardinal mindszentys spirit and the ideals that his life experience represents have won him the undying admiration and respect of freedomloving people everywhere.
. i am informed by the staff that we are going to mark up a bill dealing with this subject. in the committee on foreign relations. into which this amendment would fit. it is my belief. however. that the purpose of the majority leader is to put the matter forward so that it has attention. often. what will happen in a conference is that there is an agreement to drop a particular provision. with a promise that it will be promptly included and facilitated in aher bill. for those reasons and having stated to the senate the rights of any senator will be protected if he wishes to avail himself of those protections. i shall  oppose accepting the amendment.
. as one who has been in the forefront in the effort to insure the humane care. treatment. and protection of the mentally retarded. i authored the bill of rights for the mentally retarded. which will soon be before the senate as title ii of the developmentally disabled assistance and bill of rights act . this legislation. written in large part in response to the tragedies of willowbrook and similar institutions throughout the nation.  only protects the rights of the institutionalized mentally retarded. but also fosters and promotes alternative methods of community care and treatment for the mentally retarded. camphill village. a unique residential working community for the mentally retarded at copake. n.y.. is an example of a community alternative which effectively provides care and treatment. and most important. does so with dignity. to the mentally retarded persons it services and who serve it. i would like to share with my colleagues information regarding camphill village. at my request. the miity counsel to the labor and public welfare committee. jay cutler. visited camphill village. his report makes it clear to me that although camphill villages concept of communal living could be considered a step back in time it brings mankind light years forward in the arena of human relations. i am gratified there. are placesand i am particularly proud that this example is located in my own new york statewhere mal citizensthe houseparents staff. and their childrenand villagersthe mentally retardedlive and work together with dignity and respect. camphill village. founded in 1961. today occupies a 550acre site near the town of copake. in columbia county. in upstate new- york. the premise upon which the village is based is one of "malization." at this facility nearly 100 mentally retarded persons live and contribute to a total community of about 200 persons. the unique aspect of this facility is that the staff and the mentally retarded are fully integrated into familytype units. with everyone sharing the responsibilities. to their maximum ability and potential. equally. extensive agriculture and handicraft workshops provide the framework of camphills community. most of the villages food and dairy needs are met by the produce of their own farm. workshops which produce a wide variety of products for sale help contribute to the financial base of the facility. the mentally retarded share and contribute to all facets of agriculture and handicrafts. the villagers. each according to his ability. thus share in dignified. worthwhile productivity which develops useful skills. a sense of worth. and contributes greatly to the goal of "malization." in these times in which we are so often shocked and disheartened by ever recurring examples of the tragic neglect and hopelessness that is the plight of our mentally retarded. it is most gratifying to focus the public spotlight on an example of a new approach to the problems of the mentally retarded which is working. camphillvillage is one such example: we need many more such efforts. i believe the developmentally. disabled assistance and bill of rights act will provide the impetus for such effort. and hasten the day when our national shame of willowbrooks has ended forever. in order that my colleagues may have a complete understanding of this unique program. .1 ask unanimous consent that excerpts from the brochure entitled "camphill village" be printed in the record.
. even as we press for new legislation to deal with mounting unemployment. i want to commend the chairman of the senate conferees. mr. magnuson. the ranking republican. senator cotton. and the other senate conferees for this result. the two points that i wish to raise are these: first. with respect to the striking outand senator pell is on the floorof a particular provision respecting constitutional rights. which is contained in the managers report at page 20 and relates to amendment  97. the question that i would like to ask the manager. because i believe it is very important. relates to the provision of the senate bill which read as follows: provision or prohibition in this act shall prohibit the implementation of rights guaranteed by the constitution. obviously. that is a precatory statement. it really is  necessary. yet when it is included and you strike it out. there may be an implication drawn which was  intended by the conferees. question. therefore: did the conferees strike out the above language simply because it is unnecessary and surplusage. that seems to be the obvious reason since the basic and overarching law of our country is that the rights guaranteed by the constitution are superior to any other law and can be abridged by a law. am i correct in that judgment or was there some substantive reason for the strikeout.
you can reconcile what secretary kissinger said completely. in the first place. what he said can change the law which we. passed. i have pointed out that that law is absolute and generic. whether reunion of families or . in addition. it is a fact that so much of the discussion. because there were these sensational cases of harassment and punishment. was built around the fact that this is the great pogrom. if you want to call it that. that had to be relieved. but that did  change the basic negotiation and its consummation which related to every kind of emigrant without any regard to race. religion. color. ecoic or ethnic origin. et cetera.
 i think that is exactly what i had in mind to do. except that i wish to protect the rights of the two senators who wish to amend my amendment. therefore. if it is agreeable to all sides. i would make the followingunanimousconsent request: that my amendment be laid aside until 2:45. that at that time my time on the amendment be deemed terminated. except that i may have 10 additional minutes to debate the amendment and 10 in opposition. saving 20 minutes. that the rest of the time from 2:45 to 3:30 may be devoted to debate on amendments to my amendment. and in that way preserving everybodys rights who wish to amend mine. and giving senator buckley the opportunity to go ahead with his. is that agreeable.
. reserving the right to object. i would like to state why. because i do  wish the senator from alabama to acquire by this unanimous consent any greater rights than he already has in terms of speaking on the floor. as we have certain contentions respecting the propriety of extended debate by the senator from alabama. which we should have a right to raise. therefore. i ask the following parliamentary inquiry.
i wish to express my deep gratitude for his association to my beloved colleague from connecticut (mr. r ibicoff) and my beloved friend from illis for the consumation of this great work. i believe it is  refined to the point where it will  only become law. but where it will become a law which will be a matter of satisfaction to both the country and congress. there is a great expression which says that when something is everybodys businessto wit. all government departmentsit is odys business. i think the extraordinary gifted service rendered to the country today by the senate through the managers of the bill has been a very. very fine achievement in the history of consumers rights so much looked for in this country. i congratulate my colleagues. mr. ribicoff and mr. percy.
. that in the interest of our own freedom. if -we lre going to have a government with a close election where it can be recounted again on the floor of the senate. then we are going to have a government with an autocracy of the majority because the majority can decide these things. they are -very malleable. i believe senator haltield gave a masterly illustration of that. how a group of men with the utmost gcd faith can wander all over the lot on the construction of what is a good ballot and what is a bad ballot. it is very interesting to me that men who are deeply dug in on the issue of states rights should  be seizing hold cf this issue very strongly. of all the tssues where we have had a states" rights proposition. this certainly is it. the 17th amendment to the constitutin .should be reconciled with article i of the constitution. because senators of the united states -are to be "elected by the people thereof." to wit. the people of each state. that is entitled to as nuch ho as the provision that each house shall be the judge of the qualifications and election returns of its own members. but you do  hear a lot about that -around here. senator brock has quite properly picked up this quote of the chairman that the committee is applying its own law. the committee is the ballot commission of the state of new 17ampshire. tomorrow of new york. the -day after of massachusetts. rhode island. oregon. or tennessee. will senators tell me what election can be relied on. how much does a person have to win by. in my state the peotpe east somewhere between 5 and 7 million ballots. i won by 360.000. it seems to me that if we really went to work on this. we might be able to dispel the 350.00d. it sounds like a lot of work. but it could be done. if that is the criterion. if we are simply going to decide who is elected and who is . in the most arbitrary way. whatever the voters did. we -will recount all the ballots. we will look them all over. we will  apply state law. we will decide who is and who is  to belong to this body. that is a selfperpetuating board of directors or trustees. and we have made that illegal under the laws.
. the senate has reiterated its commitment to maintain the rights of retarded citizens with the recent passage of s. 462. i ask unanimous consent that mr. pottingers address. which reviews the constitutional and policy implications of our national commitment to improve the care. treatment. and habilitation of the mentally retarded be printed in the record.
does the senator. in his capacity as chairman of the constitutional rights subcommittee and as manager of the bill. plan any further action on these amendments which he has just outlined which are in the senate and  in the house bill and on other serious amendments to this bill.
 johnsonis  reaching its final stages as the full senate judiciary committee takes up the bill in the coming weeks. as introduced. this legislation would sharply extend the power of the federal government over individuals and make certain significant decreases in the freedoms of individual americans. some of its principal provisions reflect. i feel. a shocking insensitivity to individual rights and to comprehend the fundamental nature and limits of governmental power under the constitution. other sections. while  raising constitutional questions. involve issues of major social and political importance to the nation. several provisions. therefore. require elimination or major revision:
. we stand here for the second time in as many years to take the long overdue step of revising our nations copyright laws to accord with the techogical. social. and cultural developments of the last half century. our artists. composers. authors. and publishers have all felt the need for this legislation. but i would like to call to the attention of my colleagues a basic inadequacy in this otherwise comprehensive revisionthe bill fails. as did the prior bill passed by the senate a year ago. to accord a performance right in sound recordings to the thousands of performing artists whose efforts in far too many instances do  receive the rewards that are their due. very few performers get to be stars. a performance right would entitle all performers to receive royalties when the product of their creative efforta sound recordingis broadcast or otherwise used for profit. may i remind the senate that most of the performers who would benefit from a performance right in sound recordings are  the stars whose names come quickly to mind. but backup musicians and vocalists. and members of bands and orchestras throughout the country who are struggling to survive. i e with regret that the judiciary committee has failed to take action on s. 1111. a bill proposed by senator hugh scott and which i am cosponsoring. to remedy this defect. the distinguished miity leader has ably led efforts toward reform in this direction for some time. it would be fitting for senator scott to be able to add the enactment of performance rights legislation to his already long list of accomplishments before he retires from the senate at the end of this congress. in the senate. we still have an opportunity to move independently toward this goal. i urge the judiciary committee to act expeditiously to report out s. 1111. the basic precepts of which have never been properly considered by this body. meanwhile. i continue to hope that my colleagues in the house will act in this congress to include the performance rights principle in h.r. 2223.
. i believe that the very broad effort to deprive citizens of the united states of a forum for the redress of such a wide variety of deprivations of rights having hing to do with busing whatever makes it extremely unwise to adopt any such amendment as this. we would be opening a pandoras box. and i believe it had best be kept shut.  that we have dealt with the primary questions which are involved. as i say. both by statute and by the courts. this would hardly seem a fair way. or in the tradition of our willingness to take on an issue. debate it. and try to settle it. in the way that is attempted here. by depriving the courts of jurisdiction. so i believe the senator from th dakota is correct in seeking to table this amendment. and i hope. very much. for the reasons i have stated. that the motion will prevail.
. senator pells problem and mine is the problem of time here going on. we have a unanimousconsent agreement respecting this bill. and the controversial amendments have yet to be offered. the senate has been in session  on this particular matter for about 2 hours. that is our problem. we have desire to curtail anyones opportunity to offer amendments. but they have to be willing to offer amendments. i do  believe in using up our time arbitrarily and if we wish to press the rights of the managers of the bill. we could always press the bill to third reading. right here and . of course. we have such design. i simply make this statement to serve ice on the members that we hope very much to finish this bill today. certainly at the very latest. tomorrow. if they do  offer their amendments. they put us in a very diffcult and embarrassing position. and our duty may be to act withstanding. i urge the attaches of the senate to ify members that those who have amendments really must present them. otherwise. they could conceivably be locked out. then i suggest to senator pell that we do  press the use of time on this particular quorum call. but that we serve ice that we will. from  on. allow the time to be equally charged. so that the time on the bill itself will be used up. too. by simply waiting for members. which is  something we desire.
i feel as keenly about the matter of abortion as does the senator. first. i call attention to the broadness of his view. as he was the strongest opponent among the conferees on the abortion matter. i. too. shall vote to override. withstanding the ceiling. i think the clincher for me -is what the senator just said about the budget figures. that was our design as to what was just. fair. and hoable in discharge of these tremendous duties that we have to the poor. the unfortunate. and the ill. i shall join the senator in this vote.
. the unely death of carl coan late last year rived us and the nation of one of the st servants of the people i have ever wn. arl. as longtime staff director of the lsing.subcommittee. had played an ortant role in all the major housing. slation over the past several decades. was kledgeable. fair. and. above tolerant of differing viewpoints. he especially helpful in trying to solve unique and difficult problems of new k city. many times carl was able to us enact laws that would allow housto work in new york city. and for poor and disadvantaged in regard to e. creed or color or ethnic origin. this a difficult task and he showed teridous understanding and sympathy our problems. k the coan family is a large one a close one. i extend my deepest symies to flora coan and all the coan dren. carl will be greatly missed by )f us  only for his expertise but for character. his decency and his high se of public duty.
. i commend him to the senate. on balance. even though i thoroughly disagree with him on the subject of abortion. and i will fight him tooth and nail. whatever position he may take to seek to hinder or hamper the individual human right which is involved in that particular issue.
but only in the discretion of the board. what rights they would give crossexamination. et cetera. otherwise they would be confined to direct evidence only. oral or documentary. and the brief. and within the discretion of the secretarv as to the total time parameter. which even allowed for the whole proceeding.
i think the chairman has succinctly presented the thinking of the committee on this matter. without such a right. workers acting in good faith would  be able to afford themselves their rights under the full protection of the act as responsible human beings.
. on march 24 the senate adopted an amendment which was offered by the distinguished senator from new mexico and cosponsored by me during its consideration of senate resolution 110. legislation to establish a code of official conduct for members. officers and employees of the u.s. senate and for other purposes. the purpose of that amendment which was adopted by an overwhelming vote of 93 to 1 was to protect the basic individual rights of spouses and dependents in reporting assets and income. while at the same time preventing abuse by the transfer of assets through which a member might receive financial or ecoic benefit. the language which we adopted was chosen because it ultilized the concept of constructive control used in the code of conduct adopted by the house of representatives while also incorporating the interpretation given to the term "constructive control" by the house. there was extensive debate on this issue in the senate during its sessions on march 23 and 24 and may be found at pages 8844 through 8972. in considering s. 555 the governmental affairs committee voted 7 to 4 to delete two separate provisions which go to the question of reporting spouses interests. the amendment senator schmitt and i submit today. which will be taken up on monday would restore the language which the senate agreed to when it adopted the code of ethics.
. i believe. deeply believe. this is a highly improvident action to take on the part of the senate. the senator is perfectly within his rights to raise it. he is deeply opposed to the treaties. and he wants to attack them at every stage that he can. and i understand that. and that is very acceptable. but to do it i think would really be a very great mistake in the national interest of the united states.
i respectfully submit that the word "act" and the word "defend" are added words. they give- us. if accepted on the other side. rights and duties which are  unquestioned. we have stated it in haec verba.
. 4 years ago. we established the national commission for the protection of human subjects of biomedical and behavioral research to deal with the inhumane experimental situations which were disclosed at that time and the total disregard of individuals dignities and rights which were so commonplace in this nations prisons. mental institutions. and nursing homes. this commission has done an outstanding job over the past 4 years and has demonstrated that we can effectively incorporate ethical considerations into our research policy without. as some had said. shutting down our research effort. this commissions life will expire soon. unless we pass a bill. pending floor action. to breathe life back into it. this past sunday. the new york times ran an editorial praising the work of the commission and recommending that we continue its existence. i ask the editorial be printed in the record.. the editorial follows:
 and the heads of departments an opportunity to exercise greater leadership in the carrying out of executive policy without endangering or compromising the rights of employees. this legislation will achieve these basic oblectives. it is my deep conviction that these reforms will serve to reinvigorate federal service and bring about significant improvements in the delivery of federal services to the people of this country. i hope that the senate will act expeditiously and favorably.
