. i present a resolution adopted by the new york conference of the united church of christ. held in albany. n.y.. relating to the foreign aid program. including the peace corps. i ask unanimous consent that the resolution be printed in the record and appropriately referred.
i thank the senator. the objective of the chinese communists is the great arsenal of production which is japan. just as the objective of the soviet union in its stalinist daysand probably still is--was the great arsenal of production which was germany. they are the main bases which the communists are seeking to capture. we must understand the deep feeling of every american and every american family on this question. i have already received in my office. as i am sure all other senators have. numerous telegrams since yesterday on this subject. i was awakened three times between 12 oclock and 3 in the morningand i do  complain. i understand the feelings of the families involvedby people in new york telling me how deeply concerned they were and with what prayer and devotion i must determine how to act on the joint resolution. for those people we have a pledge to use every instrument of diplomacy. as we are willing to use every element of force. necessary to preserve freedom. we have also aher pledge. the senator from kentucky said it was expected that these means should be used with the greatest moderation and understanding of the vital issue with which we are dealing. also. and finally. we have the sad duty which generals have in war. of comparing the number of casualties we are willing to endure in order to achieve an objective which will save even greater casualties. does anyone think that president truman had an easy decision to make about dropping the bomb on hiroshima. yet history records that a million or more lives were saved. devastating as the dropping of that bomb was. these are dread decisions which great powers must make. they must make them with morality. and with a willingness to walk the extra 10 nilesto paraphrase president eisenhowerand consider every avenue that means an "out." even if we have to swallow a little pride. in dedicating ourselves to using every means of diplomacy and persuasion on the people of the world. while they have yet time to exercise a choice. i hope the joint resolution will be administered in that spirit by the president and by the foreign relations committee. which also bears a heavy responsibility as the trustee of all of us here. it is under those conditions that i shall. with deep kledge and ice of what i am doing. cast my vote for the joint resolution.
. withstanding its vicissitudes. and it has had many. and its inadequacies. and there are many. i deeply believe that this is still true today and that it would be a great mistake to dismantle the united nations purposefully or to threaten it by eroding such capabilities as it has developed with respect to peace and security of all mankind. the secretary general feels that this is one of the most eloquent expressions of the meaning of the united nations. i think his opinion is extremely valuable. i ask unanimous consent that this exchange of messages between his holiness pope paul vi and secretary general u thant be printed at this point in the record.
. i have heard the senator with great respect. as i always do. however. today the "they" is very important to identify in his statement. and the "they" is the very body which the senator appeals to. in my judgment. to dismantle the bilateral aid program.. the fact is that the congress has  appropriated the necessary resources for these international agencies. we are a year behind in respect to the world bank. although our percentage has been materially reduced. it has been reduced from 40 percent to onethird. we have already appropriated half of what we said we would do as far as the international bank is concerned. we have appropriated hing for the asian bank. although the japanese have put up the money. and we have appropriated hing for the african bank. that does  put any money in any bill or provide any services or anything else. i feel about this as i argued with respect to the church amendment. that it becomes shameful at this point that our nation. with relatively great resources should act in this manner. although surely we have many poor citizens. and life is a matter of degree. the fact is that we can satisfy every need around the world. that does  mean that we should  look after. on a philanthropic and a humanitarian basis. other people. i always do. and so does everyone else. there is reason why we should practice a different kind of morality internationally than we do personally and nationally. twothirds of the world is abjectly miserable compared to us. how can we. 200 million americans. who live in a state that is unparalleled in mankind. avert our eyes and say that $1 billion will corrupt the $250 billion budget. i deeply believe that the american people would feel that we would have to give foreign aid to other peoples of the world. we rehabilitated europe when it had problems. and we have rehabilitated other countries. we give our poor less. perhaps. than we should. life is like that. we can exactly apportion things with a scalpel and say that this is what it should be. we are  away under the margin. and that is indicated by the fact that other countries are doing a great deal more than we. and they are angels. they are just as selfish and have as many problems as we have. this goes for countries in the world that have half and onethird the income that our country has. i think that the common decency which the american people have always shown dictates that this program can be cut any further. although by a narrow margin that is what my colleagues decided on the church amendment. the senate should decide against the fulbright amendment.
. the other thing i wish to point out. and that is very serious. is that the adoption of senator bayhs amendment by senator church does  save the matter. certainly. in extremes. considering the terrible trouble israel is in. we hope that she will get the aid which congress intends she should get. but the idea that. well. israel is bailed out. so let us cut it in this way. is. i hope.  one that should be swallowed by those who have a profound consideration for the total foreign policy of a country. israel. as well as every other country in the world. will be much better served with an intelligent. balanced. substantively justified foreign aid program. including its own. rather than being saved out as an exception. much as i understand and am deeply involved with and sympathetic to the exigency which sought to be met in that regard. i think it would be a great fault on my part if i did  point out that that should  save this amendment. i hope it will . and that the amendment will be rejected.
