in the same climate in which my colleague has just spoken. as has the senator from oregon . we also have the problem of national strength and national weakness at a time of great crisis like the present. i deeply feel that it is an element of national weakness in our country as we do  make the progress we should be making in treating all our citizens equally before the law as to jobs and housing and education.  only are we subject to the points which my colleague properly makes. and of which i am so thoroughly aware. that the communists are using them against us. but indeed we underuse our manpower and our brainpower in our country. and thus we give ourselves a source of additional strain in our communities and in sections of our country like the great south. we give our country an element of weakness at a moment when we should muster maximum strength. therefore. both in the interest of the foreign policy of our country and of the basic conservation of our strength and ability to meet this difficult crisis in which we find ourselves. i feel that those who have reservations on race relations should forgo them  and go very much further than they themselves think they ought to go. at a time of danger. in the treatment of so many of our citizens who are negroes or are members of other miities.
. upon learning of the various budget cuts proposed by the administration in agriculture several months ago. i rose on the senate floor to state my objection to cuts in the following programs: school milk. school lunch. landgrant college. agriculture research. golden nematode. and gypsy moth. i believe that the house of representatives has restored all of these cuts that i opposed. i hope very much that the senate will concur in the restorations made by the house. at this time. i would like to bring to the attention of my colleagues my own opposition to the proposed diminitions in the budget for the soil conservation service. rural community development service. and the agriculture stabilization and conservation service. the soil conservation service has for many years provided valuable service across the country and in particular to the state of new york. there are 52 soil conservation districts in the state of new york comprising over 28.5 million acres of land and 95 percent of the farms and ranches in the state. the administrations budget proposed to cut various operations of the soil conservation service. of particular interest to me is the cut of $1.6 million as passed by the house in funds for soil survey operations. just last week. the senate passed and sent to the house s. 902. a bill sponsored by senator ellender and myself to authorize the secretary of agriculture to cooperate with state and other public agencies in planning for changes in the use of agriculture land in rapidly expanding areas and other agricultural use areas. we can afford to make mistakes in land development as the cities expand into our rural and agricultural land. community planners are becoming increasingly aware of the emous aid given them by the soil maps resulting from the soil conservation service soil surveys. once the soil information is obtained for an area. it serves a wide variety of purposes for both public and private groupsfor community leaders. zoning boards. planning commissions. engineers. highway departments. real estate developers. tax assessors. and many others. i would hope that the house will act promptly on this bill. however. the administrations fiscal 1967 budget proposed a reduction of $3.6 million for soil surveys. the house restored $2 million of this proposed reduction. i urge the senate to restore the entire amount to this most important service. in the field of watershed planning. i hope that the senate will concur with the house and restore the amount of new starts for this program to 100. at the same time. the actual watershed protection program budget request was for only 35 new starts. i urge the senate to restore the watershed protection program to its 1965 level of $71.239.690 which would include 80 new starts. also i favor a restoration of cuts in the soil conservation service program for the appalachian region. certainly. we must intensifyrather than reduceour aid to this seriously underdeveloped area. i recommend that the senate give serious consideration to restoring a great portion. if  all. of the administrations budget request for the rural community development service. last year the appropriation for the rcds was only $637.000. the house has agreed to maintain only the fiscal 1966 level. i have for a long time been aware of the problem faced by the people at the local level who often search in vain through the myriad of federal aid programs which are available for one which really suits their needs. for most persons the job is simply impossible. if our federal system is really to work. it is imperative that the people in the rural areas become aware of the benefits which they may receive from federal aid. the administration in establishing the rcds has taken what i consider an important step toward coordinating federal aid programs. the service emphasizes all federal programs--particularly those outside the department of agricultureas well as state programs. through its information program. the service can save people in the rural areas a great deal of time and expense. i e that the house appropriations committee report was critical of the service in that it has operating program of its own. in fact. this is the very essence of the services workthat it makes available information of all other programs. it seems clear to me that the rural community development service enhances the value of every other federal program. the many hundreds of federal programs are of little value. in my opinion. if we can make them reach the small rural areas whose citizens have little access to information on federal programs which are available. the gaps in opportunity have  been and can be handled effectively through existing programs and oldline agencies. what is needed is a small but adequate force of specialists in rural development thoroughly trained in the procedures of other federal agencies and assigned a clear and fulltime responsibility of helping rural communities in each state make full use of available forms of assistance. we must make every effort to see that the rural people share equitably in our federal system. it is estimated that a minimum of $1.750.000 would be required to maintain the present level of operations to include a small staff in washington and in 23 states. certainly our objective should be to see that the rural community development service is extended eventually to all 50 states. which i am informed could be done if the entire $3.468.000 as requested by the administration is appropriated. one other recommendation is for a restoration of the cuts in administrative expenses allocated to the agriculture stabilization and conservation service. this service has for many years offered a variety of conservation services to the american farmer. and i see reason why we should diminish its effectiveness in order to effectively carry out the size program recommended by the department of agriculture. i propose a restoration of at least $6.8 million-$3 million for administrative funds for the cropland adjustment programand $3.6 million for increased expenses pursuant to the pay act of 1965. i also urge an increase from $90 million to $125 million for the actual implementation of the cropland adjustment program which was authorized in the food and agiculture act of 1965. its purpose is to assist farmers. through longterm agreements. to divert land from the production of unneeded crops to uses that will promote the development and conservation of our soil. water. forest. wildlife. and recreational resources. the program will also establish. protect. and conserve open spaces and natural beauty and prevent air and water pollution. thus. in the long run. moneys expended for this program will result in great savings to the government through decreases in federal subsidies for outmoded production. i urge the congress to encourage this program by increasing its appropriations. in summary. these are appropriations to deal with rural problems most helpful to reduce reliance on direct or indirect farm price supports.
