s statement and spelled out the type of adjustment process the u.s. envisaged. the heart of the currency adjustment proposals were described by secretary shultz in the following way: i believe the most promising approach would be to insure that a surfeit of reserves indicates and produces pressure for adjustment on the surplus side as losses of reserves already do for the deficit side. supplementary guides and several technical approaches may be feasible and should be examined. important transitional difficulties will need to be overcome. but. in essence. i believe disproportionate gains or losses in reserves may be the most equitable and effective single indicator we have to guide the adjustment process. in ember 1972 the comprehensive u.s. proposals for using reserves as an indicator of the need for balance of payments adjustment were presented by the u.s. to the group of twenty for discussion and negotiation. the intervening period perhaps can be characterized as a period of international monetary stability burnedleading up to the present crisis. also in retrospect it is clear that phase iii did  help overseas confidence in the dollar. and the premature ending of controls had an influence on the present crisis. however. what is interesting to me is that while "objective indicators" to trigger currency adjustments have  yet been developed in international negotiations. the money markets apparently have developed their own set of "objective indicators." the currencies most under attack at the moment are the very currencies of those countries which enjoy an almost indecent surplus position. i refer to the surplus position of west germany and japan. of course. it is these countries which have a lot of rethinking to do and  much time in which to do it. perhaps it can be postulated that the new unwritten rule of the money markets is that surplus countries. by being major disrupters of the international monetary system. will be prime targets of currency speculators. i regret that the lack of success of the international negotiations to date "to develoo procedures for prompt and orderly adjustment" insure that the present adjustments that probably will take place will be delayed and disorderly. this. of course. does  lead to increased confidence in the working of the international monetary system. however. it also would be a mistake to assume that the international ecoy of the free world is on the point of cllapse. only because the monetary adjustment procedures are disorderly. if adjustment procedures absolutely do  work. this is one thing. but if free market forces indeed do cause needed currency realinements. this is something else. hopefully. the present crisis also will give impetus to the ongoing monetary talks to develop orderly procedures. thus giving substance to the expectation that secretary shultz voiced before the joint ecoic committee of the congress yesterday that "the main outlines of a new systen can be agreed by the next imf meeting in nairobi." in this context. our relations with japan deserve a special word. first. i would like to say to our western european friends that the full integration of the japanese ecoy into the ecoy of the free world is  solely an american problem. it is also a european problem and continuing european "protectionism" regarding japan serves ones longterm interest. continued close and good relations between japan and the rest of the free world must be a continuing priority item on the agenda of all leading nations of the free world. it is essential to our collective security. this is  to say that the unusually rapid growth of the japanese ecoy does  cause all of us emous and ecoically painful adjustment problems. prime minister tanaka. in my opinion. has made and is making a sincere attempt to reverse the pattern of japanese production and exporting that has caused so much disruption in overseas markets. unfortunately. at times. the procedures of decisionmaking within the japanese government seem so time consuming that japan does  take timely decisions and choices which can be more unpleasant than are or may be forced on japan. it has been clear to me since last augustand i made a public statement to this effectthat a revaluation of the japanese yen was inevitable. i feel that most reputable japanese ecoists would agree with this judgment. the inevitability arises out of the growing and totally unacceptable japanese surplus on the trade account with the united states. as well as japans general trade surplus position in the world. some twothirds of the u.s. trade deficit is accounted for by our bilateral account with japan. the u.s. deficit on the trade account with japan has increased by $1 billion in 1972 to $4.2 billion. the surplus in each case is so great that the rules of the game which underlie the stability of any equitable international monetary and trading system must be judged as having been seriously impaired. it is my hope that japan will moderate the position against any further revaluation of the yen since it has again become clear that despite the yen revaluation contained in the smithsonian agreement. the yen remains seriously undervalued. it should also be asked why revaluation of the yen is so to be feared. revaluation clearly is a reward for hard work. productivity and industrial efficiency. and the japanese man in the street could benefit through cheaper prices for all imported goods. revaluation could also contribute to a redirection of japanese energies and resources to what we are told are pressing societal and environmental needs at home. let mealso saya brief word about the unitedstateg. in his sp..ech before .tl1e tmf on september 25. 1723. rreldeft nixon stated: nation .s4uia bed denied the opportupity. to adjust.  relieved of the obligatidn to adjust. because of the present reserve currency role of the dollar. the united states is partially denied this opportunity and also relieved of this obligation. however. the american people must realize that the productivity and competitiveness of the american society are at issue in this monetary crisis. if any other currency indeed is revalued. the world will have -rendered a judgment about the. united states. and this judgment will result in higher prices for imported products. any foreign currency revaluation impacts adversely on the american standard of living. in turn. if burgeoning trade deficits lead to protectionist trade legislation. the american consumer will pay a further levy and this levy will then be even stiffer. the international effects of the bluecollar blues. faltering productivity and white collar malaise can be swept under the rug. we shall in time find it impossible to maintain our living standards under these conditions. in conclusion. while this latest international monetary crisis is very seriousthis is  the time to act precipitouslyrather it is a period of opportunity. opportunity to advance the international monetary negotiations. opportunity to review the ecoic relations among the principal ecoies of the free world. and yes. opportunity to consult with the congress .on the future course of our trade and monetary policies. i have long felt and advocated that 1973 would be the optimum year for a major multilateral summit at which time ecoictrade and monetaryas well as political and military problems would be on the table. international action is also appropriate to deal with the growing international energy crisis. we are in a new erathe international order created during andl immediately after the second world war is rapidly collapsing if it has  already collapsed. the time is at hand to build new relationships and new institutional structures to deal with todays realitiesbe they the new international monetary system. international action on the energy crises. or the reconstruction of southeast asia. let us  let the time pass us by.
