i am introducing a bill to permit the early retirement of federal employees during major reductions in force by a federal department or agency. during the past year more than 120.000 civilian employees of the department of defense have been -involuntarily released from service as the result of reductions authorized by congress and personnel reductions ordered by the administration. the civil s6rvice commission estimates that reductions will continue to occur. in federal agencies through at least fiscal year 1972. with the major impact being felt in defense and space programs. in new jersey. reductions have occurred at the principal military installations. including picatinny arsenal. fort monmouth. fort dix and mcguire air force base. layoffs at the philadelphia naval shipyard have also affected a number of communities in southern new jersey. it has been widely reported that the defense department will annce aher major reduction in force within the next 3060 days which may be even more severe than those carried out earlier this year. the impending reduction makes the need for congressional action urgent. legislation should be passed before the next round of layoffs in order to ease the impact of job loss upon individuals who are separated and on the operations of the agency undergoing the reduction. some employees are young egh to relocate and find new employment. for many others. the hardship of finding aher job after years of federal service can be severe. the latter situation becomes particularly acute when these employees face the prospect of seeking employment in todays depressed labor market. reductions in force also take their toll on agency management. the "bumping effet." that is. the displacement of employees with lower retention rights by those with higher retention rights. frequently results in the permanent loss to federal service of capable younger employees. these include those whose jobs are abolished as well as those who see opportunity for advancement because middle and upper level positions are retained by persons with longevity rights. the loss of younger civil servants aggravates an already serious situation in the department of defense caused by the fact that many current employees started their federal careers during or shortly afterworld war ii and are approachingbut have  quite attainedretirement age. .for example. i am advised that 20 percent of the civilian employees in the air force logistics command will become eligible for retirement in the next 5 years. an increase of 15 percent from the previous 5year period. personnel experts in the defense department indicate that these retirements will start in the middle 1970s. after the major cutbacks  being made are completed and after the separation by reduction in force of a large proportion of the potential replacements. for these retirees. civil service commission officials agree that other federal agencies will also experience a sharp increase in retirements during the next 5 years as many of those who began their federal service during the middle and late 1940s reach retirement age. in view of the need to ease as much as possible the personnel dislocation caused .by changing federal priorities. i am introducing a bill to permit federal employees to retire early during major reductions in force. even though. their specific jobs are - abolished by the cutback. under present law. afederal employee who is at least age 50 and has 20 years service. or who has 25 years service regardless of age. may retire on an_ immediate annuity if he is involuntarily separated. that is. if his specific job is abolished by a personnel reduction. if his job is  abolished. he may  retire. even though he may desire. to. unless he is old egh and has sufficient service to retire under the regular optional retirement provision of the law. at present. an employee must have 30 years service at age 55or 20 years at age 60. or 5 years at age 62to retire at his own option.. the bill i amintroducing would give the long service employee the oppotunity to retire voluntarily during a limited period when his agency is undergoing a major reduction in force. thereby permitting the retention of employees who want to continue to work. the bill".requires the civil service commission to determine when a reduction in force is major and to fix the time within which employees could exercise the option to retire. employees who elect to retire early would receive an annuity reduced by onesixth of 1 percent2 percent a yearfor each month they are under age 55. the same as employees who are involuntarily released. r according to the civil service commission. retirements of civilian employees of the department of defense under this bill would result in an additional cost to the civil service retirement and disability fund of $553 nillion. to be amortized in 30 annual installments. of $29.1 million each beginning in june. 1971. additional funds .would be -rehuired in the future for other agencies. the prospect of a major reduction: in force by the department of defenseata time when the national. unemployment rate is continuing to rise makes the need for~action on this bill imperative. .accordingly. i am writing to. the chairmen of the senate and house post office and civil service committees urging that hearings be held as soon as possible. it is estimated that approximately 30.000 employees will take advantage of the opportunity to retire. at the same time the bill will enable the federal government to continue to attract and retain the caliber of career personnel needed for new federal efforts in such areas as urban development..education. environmental protection. and health.. expressions of support for the bill have. already been given by the civil service commission. the department of defense and the white house. in light of the gravity of the current inemployment situation and the imminent reductions in force. i hope the senate and house will give prompt attentionto the measure. siask unanimous consent that there be printed in the record a letter from the chairman of the civil ser(ice commission to the senate in suppsort of tae bill and a table showing civilian employment of the federal government by state.
