. i welcome the final approval of s. 830. the amendments to the blackstone river valley national heritage corridor act. i would like to thank the members of the senate energy committee and the house interior committee for moving this bill forward. and especially representative macmiz. who has worked tirelessly on this bill. i would also like to give a great deal of credit to jim pepper and bob bendick and the other members of the blackstone valley commission. all of whom have turned this project into a reality. for centuries. the blackstone river has been winding through 45 miles of massachusetts and rhode island countryside. slaters mill. the rivers first textile mill. was built in 1793. signaling the true beginning of our countrys industrial revolution. the blackstone canal opened. the providenceworcester railroad was inaugurated. and the valley flourished. the sense of community that was so strong over a century ago still exists today. the people living in the blackstone valleyfrom grafton to uxbridge to pawtucketare proud of their region and are enthusiastic about its preservation and revitalization. conservation efforts are underway on all levels. with the help of the rhode island and massachusetts congressional delegations. these efforts culminated in the 1986 act to establish the blackstone river valley national heritage corridor. this legislation established a unique type of urban park: a park to highlight the cultural. historic. and ecoic resources of the corridor. as an author of the original blackstone valley legislation. i am pleased with the corridors steady progress. new land has been acquired. new projects have been started. and a comprehensive management plan has been developed. on june 4. with my urging. secretary lujan approved the blackstone river valley cultural heritage and land management plana strong vote of confidence by the federal government in this project. i would like to emphasize that the state of rhode island fully recognizes that this project is a joint effort between the states and the federal government. we have put into the corridor a significant amountmore than $2 millio state resources. we in rhode island. and our neighbors in massachusetts. are ready to commit resources toward enhancing the corridor. but. as congress recognized 4 years ago. we do need some pederal help. s. 830. as amended by the house. will help the commission achieve the goals set forth in the cultural and land management plan by fine tuning the original legislation. as i mention. some modifications were made to the bill. the funding for potential blackstone valley projects  will be routed. with an accompanying recommendation from the commission. through the office of the secretary of the interior for approval. the bill provides for the necessary funding for the corridors completion. it increases the commissions annual operating funding by $100.000 to $350.000 for each of the next 3 years. in addition. $1 million is provided for fiscal year 199193. with these moneys. the commission will be able to develop visual exhibit centers. restore historic structures. and establish educational and cultural programs on the environment. this act has widespread support. from the local communities to the govers of both states to the national park service. thanks to these groups hard work. the corridor has gone far and fast. it is truly on its way to becoming a "living corridor." and the passage of this bill goes a long way toward that goal.
