 kennedy and his predecessors. as a "war on poverty." and adding the $250 million newly budgeted for fiscal year 1965 by the johnson administration. can make a real dent in the twin problems of reducing the substandard living conditions of 30 million americans with incomes less than $3.000. i am all for raising the living standards for our people. a process which has been going on in this country for decades with considerable success. and i am all for a concentrated attack on continuing poverty by our affluent society. but we must  let both the unemployed and the poor suffer because we try to "sweep the unemployed under the welfare rug" or pretend that it is government alone which can eradicate poverty. the fact is that as the american ecoy expanded over the years. the percentage of americans in the lowincome brackets has declined steadily. until in 1962. only 20 percent of american families had less than $3.000 of income per year. fifteen years before that. for example. 32 percent of american families were in this category. much of this success should be attributed to the steadily advancing private ecoy and our mass production and distribution system. i fully recognize that government has a major responsibility to stimulate the ecoy to its maximum potential and that it has a great role in welfare and training. but it is the private sector which can attack the causes of unemployment and poverty in america with the most lasting effect. it is also undeniable that there is need for federal expenditures to build roads and hospitals. to aid education. and to modernize our defense establishment. but. it would be folly to maintain that government alone must or can carry the burden to attack the root causes of poverty. the most effective and realistic approach would be in the form of cooperative undertakings between private enterprise and government. this concept could be applied in the field of medical care for our elder citizens. as a joint enterprise of government and private insurance companies. according to a bill which a number of senators and i have recently introduced. and the same principle can obtain in other areas. in the area of labormanagement relations there is much room for cooperation between labor. management. and government to resolve differences over wages. the impact of rapid techogical change. and other problems which involve the public interest. the manpower development and training act of 1962 contains section 205(b). an amendment which i proposed. calling for the establishment of such tripartite groups on a local. regional. and industry basis. fortyseven state and 740 local groups have been formed across the country under this provision of the act. this movement needs to be pressed. since there were 5.000 such committees in the united states during world war ii. there is also a need for cooperation between philanthropic organizations and foundations. corporate giving. and local. state. and federal governments in the area of social welfare at the local level. there is a great need in this area for a new organizational concept to focus at the very heart of real poverty in americathe family and its immediate environment. i could cite numerous other examples. the point i wish to make here is that it would be cruel to create the belief in the minds of the american people that the proposal offered thus far by the johnson administration under the slogan of "war on poverty" has the resources. the programs. or even the conceptual formula to lift the ecoic burden of social and ecoic disadvantage from the shoulders of the 30 million americans in our lifetime. a successful effort in this area must come from a partnership between the proven ingenuity of american enterprisemanagement and laborand local. state. and federal government. to leave this "war on poverty" largely to the federal government would be a mockery of the american peoples confidence in the ability of our ecoic system to meet the challenges of our time. etheless. in addition to a tax cut. the federal government can. and must. take measures to help in those areas where only it can help. i therefore recommend. as we debate the tax cut bill. the following measures: we must radically increase our manpower training program to enable at least 50 percent of our trainable unemployed. or roughly 450.000 individuals. to learn the skills which can make them. once again. productive members of society. as against that figure. it is estimated that  only 135.000 workers are scheduled for retraining in fiscal year 1964. that is only 15 percent of the number actually needed. we must establish and adopt a fair employment practices commission to deal with discrimination in employment which deprives our country of $15 billion a year in productive power. that is the estimate of the council of ecoic advisers.  mine. we must accelerate. extend. and expand federal assistance to vocational and technical education programs. we must provide still further additional incentives for plant modernization. we must provide a tax incentive for exports. we must bring the u.s. private enterprise system effectively into foreign aid. a top committee to do this is called for by the foreign assistance act of 1963an amendment of mine which is  in the lawbut has  yet been named. we must establish a commission on automation to make urgent recommendations in this critical area and to provide for the transition of workers and businesses to automation. that proposal is  pending before the committee on labor and public welfare. we must modernize the antitrust lawsone of the crying needs of our country. we must enact permanent improved federal standards of unemployment compensation. which today is bedeviled by varying standards. and in many of the states is completely unfair and impractical to the unemployed. finally. as already suggested. we must accelerate the use of labormanagementpublic committees provided under section 205(b) of the manpower development and training act of 1962. this is a program really apposite to our situation. and is urgently needed. my purpose in speaking today is merely to make clear with all the conviction of which i am capable that the tax cut alone will  do it. desirable as it is and desirable as are a number of reforms which are made in the bill. for example. relating to charitable contributions made by individuals. charitable contributions made by corporations. political contributions. which is an excellent provision. averaging of income for artists and writers and others whose incomes fluctuate widely. some help to small business in the basic tax on corporations. and problems involving tax liens and personal holding companies. all of these are important but they do  deal with the fundamental problems of meeting the vast needs of a modern. complex ecoy required to cope with the challenges imposed by endemic unemployment. obsolescence. discrimination. the expansion of our foreign trade. rapid techogical change. and the poverty of onefifth of our people. as we complete action on the tax bill. i hope we shall bear these principles in mind. once having cut the rates. we can cut everything else. this is by means the end of the road. the tax bill is going to help. but  cure the situation. if we really want to deal with the fundamental problems which assail our ecoy and lead us to a new ecoic plateau in which we do  have to fear aher cyclical recession. which it is said we must expect. it is necessary to adopt many of the measures which are  being considered.
 has recently annced his ination of george h. kuper. the former executive director of the national commission on productivity to be the new executive director of the national center. i believe this appointment of mr. kuper. who is fully familiar with the efforts of that predecessor commission. and the stumbling blocks which it encountered to be highly appropriate. mr. kuper was instrumental in working with the government operations committee in fashioning the legislation which brought the new center into being. this ination was initially referred to the government operations committee which had reported the legislation creating the new national center. however. on monday it was rereferred to the banking committee. i wish to reiterate that my statement is in way meant to indicate the slightest dissatisfiaction with the appointment of mr. kuper to be executive director of the national center. it is my belief however. that effective coordination between the executive and legislative branches. and proper oversight of the activities of the new center requires also recognition of the responsibility of the senate labor and public welfare conmittee with substantive jurisdiction over proposals which are likely to be forthcoming from the work of the center. or which are likely to require implementation by the center.
