 pro tempore of the senate. i serve on the advisory committee of the white house conference on libraries and information services. and i have filed the following statement with the labor/hew subcommittee of the appropriations committee to support the needed $3.5 million appropriation. authorized by public law 93568. the white house conference will provide an opportunity for each state to assess its needs and have all the states convene in washington to assist the congress and the nation develop a national library policy. our libraries have suffered terribly in the present fiscal difficulties facing many cities and states. throughout the country. and particularly in urban areas. libraries have been forced to dismiss staff and reduce hours. it is a tragic paradox that during periods of high unemploymenttimes when people who are seeking work really need a librarythat libraries are forced to shut their doors. at the present time. the committee on labor and public welfare is considering an extension of the library services and construction act. lsca. i am pleased that the special needs of urban libraries have been in the forefront of the discussion to extend lsca. the american library association has already endorsed a new approach for special assistance to these urban libraries. i am sure that the recent meetings of the american library association held in washington have provided many members with new information on the problems of libraries in their own state. i hope that such information will engender increasing. support for the needs of our public libraries. the most vexing problem facing the nation and the congress is surely the continuing high number of unemployed men and women. one of the most important resources for an unemployed person to regain a job is found at his public library. i was encouraged recently to learn from information provided by the new york state department of education of a federally supported program which began in the yonkers public library and which is combating unemployment. federal funds under the library services and construction act are supporting 24 job information centers offering unemployed persons all information at one site to simplify the problem of finding employment. this information includes civil service anncements. newspaper classified sections. company information and job listings. and some specially trained personnel to assist clients in using these resources. i ask unanimous consent that the full report on the job information centers be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
