s science advisory committee and director of cornell universitys center for radiophysics and space research is also vigorously opposed to the development of the space shuttle. he feels the case for the program is very weak and can be justified on the present contemplated uses of the shuttle. dr. ralph lapp. the rened scientist. has vigorously opposed the shuttle on the grounds that it will  reduce the cost of putting payloads into orbit and is  worth the large expenditures required to develop it. finally. peter james. a former spacesystems analyst for pratt & whitney. has stated that the shuttle can be justified on the basis of its limited uses contemplated by nasa and that it should be delayed pending further study. thus we have seen conflicting statements by experts disputing every aspect of the shuttle. this is  a sound basis upon which to proceed with such a massive program. the federal government is going to be called upon to make increasingly large expenditures for social programs and i believe it is essential that we make these expenditures. a revenuesharing bill which will call for the expenditure of $5.3 billion is expected to pass the congress this year. welfare reform legislation requiring an expenditure of possibly double that amount also may pass the congress this year. we are likely to pass a higher education bill creating new grant programs that will run into billions of dollars. i believe these programs are necessary and should be funded at the appropriate levels. therefore. we must take a hard look at programs like the space shuttle which will also cost billions of dollars and compete for funding with social programs. the gao is undertaking a study of the shuttle and should have its findings by june 1 of this year. i believe it is necessary to get the results of the gao study and other studies which should be undertaken before proceeding with the shuttle program. in light of the controversy and conflicting opinions about the advisability of proceeding with the shuttle program and our pressing social needs which must be met. i urge the senate to support our amendment to delete the authorization of $227.9 million for the space shuttle program.
