. i hope this amendment is thoroughly rejected. that we have confidence to give the states the powers they always had up until 1971. if they want to use them. fine. if they do  want to use them. that is their business. but let us  handcuff them as they have been. this bill provides for over $100 billion to be expended on transportation. a good portion of that will be spent. 50 percent of it anyway. on primary and interstate roadsnearly all of it on the primary and interstates. are the citizens of the united states of america  entitled to some rights under that. and where the local community has said this is conforming. the zoning does  permit a billboard. the local community and the state is entitled to get rid of it under the powers that they have for every other instance in the exercise of their police powers. i certainly hope my colleagues will reject the amendment. i thank the chair.
. i have been informed that while i was at lunch. the distinguished junior senator from mississippi made a statement on the senate floor which at least brings into question the propriety of the action taken by the attorney general of the united states in connection with the situation in greenwood. leflore county. miss.. where the united states is seeking to enjoin local authorities from interfering with a petition by the local citizenrynegroes. to be precisefor the redress of grievances. i express my approval of the action of the attorney general in instituting the suit. i think it was his manifest duty to do so. in view of the fact that constitutional rights are brought into question. including the right of petition for the redress of grievances by constituted authorities. i approve very much of the attorney generals taking this action. as a matter of general principle. i have very deep faith in the processes of the law and the courts. i have argued this point before. and i do so again. in the face of situations which have such incendiary possibilities as in this particular area about which the press has written so much. the chances will be very much better for the processes of order and tranquillity if an individual citizen feels that tongue may be given for his grievances through the courts. and that there is a possibility of redress. the attorney general is in this civil injunction suit proceeding under section 1971 of title 42 of the united states code. which was part of the civil rights act of 1957. the important thing. which i wish to emphasize. is that here is an outlet. here is a substitute for either the effort which the marchers are making or the efforts to stop them which are being made by the police and other municipal authorities. in an area where there are the raw materials of violence. the capability of the courts to act in situations of this kind is designed to head them off and to give. as i say. an outlet. a tongue. to every mans grievance. therefore. i have always favored strongly the socalled part iii in regard to civil rights. so that the attorney general might sue in representative cases. and i feel very deeply that this is the way to save ourselves from the dangers involved in such situationsdangers which we have already seen erupt into violence.  only like that which occurred at oxford. miss.. where marshals and troops are employed. but also the danger involved when people are fired on while they are in their homes and the danger involved when buildings are burned. this is tea party. this situation is very. very dangerous. in terms of the future of the nation. so anything we can do to give it a peaceful outletand i think recourse to the courts is the most logical and most desirable procedurewe should encourage. although i respect. and indeed would fight for. the right of the senator from mississippi to say whatever he believes he should say. i also feel it my duty to juxtapose to the general thrust of the statement of the senator from mississippias i understand it from what i have been told by my assistants who heard him make itthis statement of my own position.
