. today i am introducing the environmental programs assistance act which would make pernanent the current senior environmental employment pilot projectsee. the environmental protection agency would be authorized to employ and direct the efforts of older americans to provide monitoring. and regulatory and technical assistance in several environmental programs. the act would be managed by the epa with guidance from the department of labor at an authorized level  to exceed $250.000a small amount to pay for the objectives of this program. in the pilot project begun in 1977. see demonstrated the effectiveness of older americans employed in jobs relating to the protection of environmental resources. for example. in arkansas. 8 senior citizens conducted an epamandated survey of open dumps within the state. in new jersey. 21 older americans were hired to gather followup information for an earlier survey of hazardous waste products generated by state industries. and in california. a project studied the extent to which migrant workers were exposed to dangerous pesticides while on the job. it is a rare occasion when the public derives such benefit from antnvestment as small as the amount expended for the senior environmental employment pilot program. retired. unemployed older workers have a wealth of talent and experience that should and must be used. at a time when federal assistance for environmental programs is being reduced. additional resources are needed to help implement state and federal programs. the environmental programs assistance act will assist in accomplishing such projects as: air monitoring and emission testing: pesticides inventory and control. water quality and supply sampling and monitoring. technical libraries and public information projects. carcienic surveys and followup. hazardous materials routing surveys. health and screening in rural areas and among migrant workers. and se abatement and control. the bill requires that see participants  replace existing activities within a state. the participants must augment or improve existing programs. see will  displace epa employees. this criterion in the pilot pro. gram has brought about ingenious uses of the senior environmental employment program. this trend will certainly continue should this worthy program be given permanent status. an example of the original use of see is an epa program which was spurred on by medical finding concerning the hazards of exposure to asbestos. in 1980. the epa launched a program to help educators check school buildings for asbestoscontaining materials. the -national manager of the asbestos control program. john wilson of epa. commended the program participants. and i quote. the great success of this program springs from each enrollees unique combinatior of long work experience and enthsiasm to do what he can do to help people in need. we have thrown these people into some difficult situations. and in all cases they have been able to provide. the see project is already a proven success based upon the pilot program. the legislation i am introducing today will give the see program a 3year authorization at a level  to exceed $250.000 each yeara necessary step to insure permanence to a program that will provide many benefits. this legislation offers us the chance to more fully utilize the experience and energy of our senior citizens. and at the same time to enhance environmental programs. earlier this week the house. seeing the wisdom of this program. adopted similar language in an amendment to h.r. 6323. the environmental research. development and demonstration act of 1983. i encourage my colleagues to join with me in voting for this. by mr. hatch (by request):
