in committee. we discussed what had been done by the house committee on this subject when we discussed what was to be done by the senate. i would  take the time of the senate except that i have  heard discussed the reasons why we acted as we did. on the previous occasions we have considered this program. we have always planned for a 3year period for the program. when we enacted it in 1962. we gave it until 1965 to run. when we considered it again in 1963. we added on a year in order. again. to give the program 3 years. we are in much the same situation . we are looking forward to a period of extension for the program. my colleagues amendment. of which he gave full ice to the committee. would reduce it below the period of extension the committee had contemplated. this is the first time we are heading into a matching period. we have heretofore  had matching. we have talked about it. and the law. if it remains as it is. will call for it. if we pass the bill we shall  have matching until june 30. 1966. so if we get only a 2year period. we shall have only 1 year for matching. i believe the testimony is conclusive that the states will  consider it worthwhile to line up teachers and make provision in their budgets for a matching program with the possibility that the program will run for only a year. i should like to refer to the testimony of the head of the vocational education program in ohio. because the senator from ohio raised such a question. i refer to page 112 of the hearings. at which dr. shoemaker. really calling for a permanent program. said: if this becomes a permanent act i will provide a continuing teachereducation program for these teachers we are having to pull in from industry. at the present time. i can afford to. in short. if we really expect to have the states plan their programs intelligently and effectively for matching. it is necessary to provide a reasonable term of years for the program. the house committee has provided for a 3year extension. we could have provided 3. 4. or 5 years. we must still go to conference. i believe that to cut it down to 2 years would be to cut it too close. considering what we need to do and what we wish to encourage industry to do. this is a critically important program. it is easy in this body to get into a discussion in detail and forget the forest for looking at the trees. two million people are changing jobs every year because of automation. if our country is really to do the productive job that it must do. and we have almost 5 million endemically unemployed. this is about the only solid job training program at the federal level that seeks to deal with both issues. and even here we are. at the most. training somewhere in the neighborhood of 400.000 to 500.000 people. if that is what we are to doand that is little eghamerican industry ought to be enlisted to do four times that muchat least we ought to give the plan a decent opportunity. if we really want matchingand we do. and i say this very deeply as a member of the miitylet us give the states a chance to plan ahead so that they will really match instead of thinking that the bill is only for a year. and that perhaps it will  call for matching. otherwise the states would say. "let us forget about it and see what congress does."
