. i will give some examples as to what the funds have been used for in the past: new orleans. the center for visual and performing arts opened in downtown area. chicago. the architectural assistance center organized a neighborhood building conservation and revitalization program. philadelphia. livable cities helped fund a springtime "festival of the arts" in the downtown area. attracted 200.000 people. participants included the philadelphia college of art. philadelphia ballet co.. and the historical society of philadelphia. albuquerque. n. mex. funds requested to expand indian cultural center. the fact is that here is this paltry amount which serves to produce a sense of identity and togetherness in these urban areas and among the rural poor.  what is forced down their throats by washington. but what they develop as their own sense of art and culture and civilization. i sit in the appropriations committee. where i just came from. and there was a question as to whether or  a $500 million cut relative to travel by government bureaucrats should go into effect. out of a budget of $8 billion for travel. $8 billion just for government officials and bureaucrats to travel. here we have $3 billion in order that people can appreciate their own heritage.  the washington heritage.  the new england heritage. but their own heritage. depending upon the section of the country whence they come. the mark of any civilized nation is its commitment to the arts. to culture. a country never is going to make its mark on the world if it has solely a budget for defense and for travel by bureaucrats. it must have more depth and soul and heart than that. ody has lobbied to me to do this. i have  talked to anybody representing any organization to carry this ball. you are going to have people fleeing their place of birth. where they have 0een raised. they will fall into a sort of nameless and purposeless quandary. it is the principle involved that i fight for here. it is  the national endowment for the arts. this is professional. this is someone who feels he has something to offer. without being a big name or recognized by the artistic community to his neighbor. this bill is going back to conference. anyway. because of the action the senate took earlier. so it is  that by defeating my amendment. everything can be wrapped up. i ask the senate to stick to its initial position. to the position of the chairman right here on the senate floor only a few weeks back and. most important. to say. yes. in the course of our priorities the chance for individuals to flower and blossom in their own way. in their own community. is still possible in america. i am prepared at this juncture to vote.
