s ination of you as commissioner general of the united states exhibit. montreal worlds fair1967. for which you will gain ambassadorial rank. for two years during world war ii. you served in the united states navy. and also have been for two periods in your countrys service as a member of the border patrol. from friends and political opponents alike you have won praise for your courage and honesty in public life. for your earnest pursuit of ideas. for your readinessafter deliberationto take and maintain a stand which may be unpopular. on behalf of ricker college. i am happy and proud to confer upon you the hoary degree doctor of laws. as attested by this diploma and by the special academic hood which is  placed on your shoulders.
the world and the people of south vietnam are  as aware as they should be of our determination to wage the less visible war against poverty and despair in that country. unfortunately much of the good work of our aid programthe basic counterinsurgency effort and the other important work on the political and ecoic levelhas been obscured and overshadowed by the smoke of battle. i feel that we must make sure that the people of south vietnam themselves are aware of the fact that we are as determined to aid in the fulfillment of this social revolution for their benefit. as we are to halt vietcong military aggression. that we are determined  to allow the communists to capture this revolution. with their hypocritical and fraudulent espousal of its objectives. only as a means of collaring a trusting people into eternal slavery. we must underline once again our determination to help the people of south vietnam retain their independence. and also to make that independence meaningful. we must again and again remind ourselves and the world that our military efforts are  an end in themselves. but only the means of helping the vietnamese people to achieve their legitimate aspirations. press reports out of washington the last few days indicate that there is an "air of optimism" in official thinking about the vietnam situation. the thinking seems to be that the words of our highest officials. the deeds of the marines on chu lai peninsula last week and the other actions of the u.s. armed forces have made it plain to the vietcong. and their th vietnamese and communist chinese supporters that we are determined  to bow to aggression. this determination. so runs this line of thinking. may well compel the communist side to actively explore the possibility of negotiating peace. certainly i hope that these reports are correct and that we are closer to ending the fighting in south vietnam. however. i feel that those who express this optimism over the situation in vietnam are failing to take into full account the lessvisible war. the legitimate social and ecoic revolution. as a matter of fact. to benefit from any cease fire or peace settlement. the government of south vietnam. working with its own citizens. and with our help. must successfully wage this war on ecoic and political inadequacies and failures to secure the confidence of all the vietnamese people. this social revolution is critically important. by propaganda. by terror. and by political action the vietcong have sought to turn this revolutionary spirit into the cutting edge of their own war against the people of south vietnam. the highest officials of our government have made plain our determination to aid the legitimate ecoic and social aspirations of the south vietnamese people. certainly. this determination has been underlined by the manytimes valiant efforts of the 998 civilian employees of the agency for international development in that country. 6 of them have been killed since 1960. 3 others have been kidnapped. and 12 wounded. but by the exigencies compelled upon us. we got a late start in helping the south vietnamese to mount a counterinsurgency effort to bring direct. practical aid to the people of the countryside. and despite many imaginative and practical programs. our response to this challenge has  yet been effective egh. there are many valid reasons why this is so. but reasons can get done the job that must be done. only effective action can accomplish it. the maximum effective response to this social revolution is also required by the situation in all of southeast asia. our government admits that the firmness of our determination to meet the military challenges in south vietnam is designed. in part. to prove to the world that the united states meets its commitments. but our determination to wage effective battle at the ecoic. social and political levels to help the people of that nation is similarly necessary to prove to asians and others that we are a nation truly committed to helping other nations to become selfsufficient and capable of mastering their own destiny. free from outside interferenceincluding ours. and that we understand their aspirations for independence. this should be the significance of ambassador lodges acceptance of the cruelly trying post of ambassador to south vietnam. it is the significance of his appointment of retired maj. gen. edward g. lansdale as his special assistant. in past actions and comments. both of these outstanding men have shown that they k the importance of the ecoic and political levels in fighting insurgency. these appointments are to be highly praised. and it is my hope that they signal a new emphasis on providing answers. as far as possible. to the basic discontent in vietnam. for the reasons that i have stated. i have taken a close look at the u.s. ecoic development and counterinsurgency efforts in south vietnam.- i have found much which is highly commendable. however. further inadequacies need correction. i have found that we and our south vietnamese allies are successfully solving many of the age old problems of that nation. without fanfare. for example. about 80 percent of the countryside has been freed from the threat of malarial infestation80 percent is a very important and impressive figureand more than 9 million people have been vaccinated against cholera in joint united statessouth vietnamese efforts. we have helped to build 4.000 classrooms in the last 26 months. have aided in the construction and the stocking of 12.000 hamlet health centers. and have trained the teachers and the health workers to man them. of course. it is clear that the south vietnamese people. through their duly constituted government. must carry on these programs. we can only help. we can stand in their place. lest we actually become guilty of the false charge of "imperialism"  hurled at us by the communists. accordingly. we must take the south vietnamese government as we find it. and do our best as advisers and friends to bring about stable and effective government without seeking to substitute ourselves as a government or to become political manipulators. this is one of the builtin limitations to what we can do in south vietnam. and it is just as well for the american. as well as the vietnamese people. to k it. but even within this present context. i believe there is much more we can do that urgently needs to be done. i recommend: first. that we materially expand the funds and the aid personnel available to carry out the counterinsurgency program which is designed to meet the immediate and most pressing needs of the people. in the 1965 fiscal year. for example. we earmarked $65.8 million for this critical program. as compared to $330 million under the military assistance program and $217 million for all other aid programs. including lodgrange ecoic development and the necessary commercial import program designed to maintain the stability of the south vietnamese ecoic system. together this represents about half of the cost of our operation in vietnam. which is running  at well over $1 billion a year. the three figures that i have mentioned constitute about half a billion dollars. i have pointed out that. of that half a billion dollars. only about 10 percent goes for counterinsurgency and that we should materially increase that amount. second. that we intensify and expand the refugee relief program in south vietnam. it is  estimated that close to 600.000 refugees have been forced from their homes and villages since last january. largely because of an apparent step up in vieteong tactics of terror. whatever the reason. we have been told in the judiciary subcommittee on refugeespresided over by the senator from massachusettsthat we can expect them to arrive in greater numbers. this increased flow of refugee.the most visible sign of the heartbreak of war---could critically strain the resources of the south vietnamese government and cause panic and grave civic discontent. the refugee program is very serious. certainly the refugee crisis is one area where the u.s..government. in cooperation with south vietnam. can provide most effective aid. since nearly 500.000 of the 600.000 refugees are  located in coastal th and th central south vietnam. third. there are several specific programs. already underway or planned by aid and the government of south vietnam. that should be intensified and expanded. (a) urban housing: the influx of refugees into saigon and the concentration of our aid efforts in the countryside to meet the immediate threat of vietcong activity. has worsened living conditions in saigon and other major population centers. a survey of lowincome housing needs in the saigon area was sponsored by aid and completed last january. the saigon government has  produced a slightly altered plan. and is considering a variety of types of construction aid offered by the united states. in fact. however. only one. small vietnamese government program. in saigon. is actually under construction. this program should immediately be accelerated in the capital area. and should be made available to other coastal cities. (b) development of the port of cam ranh bay: experts claim that this bay. midway between saigon and da nang is the best natural harbor. next to hong kong. on the coast of the asian mainland. it is  being developed as a military harbor. and extensive plans have been drawn for its eventual use as an industrialmaritime center. however. if this type of development for civilian uses were accelerated. the new port of cam ranh could be one of the wisest investments ever made in south vietnam. it would inspire pride in the heart of every south vietnamese citizen. (c) land reform: a positive and effective program of land reform is absolutely necessary. political and security problems have prevented implementation of such a program. but the south vietnamese government has  annced its intention to move in this direction. this program must conform with the views of the peasants. must be made available to the tiller of the soil. and contain provisions for the security of tenure and for rents that are fair in relation to the productivity of the land. since this program is considered to be crucial to the attainment of our aims in south vietnam. appeals for quick action should be made to the government of south vietnam from the highest levels of our government. certainly the refugee crisis is one area where the u.s. government. in cooperation with the south vietnamese. can provide most effective aid. since nearly 500.000 of the 600.000 refugees are  concentrated in or near the coastal cities in central and thern south vietnam. it would appear that we have also been presented through the terror of war with an opportunity to prove our concern and intention to help the people themselves. it has often been said that our aid efforts have  really been effective because the vietcong control the land where the people live. that they can undo with terror what we have tried to do with agricultural. educational and health programs. but in the case of the refugees. they have come to areas which are inally at least controlled by the government. they have come to our side. and we should spare effort to make sure that while they are under our protection. they are satisfactorily fed. clothed and housed and that at least minimal health and education needs are provided for. one suggestion on the refugee program which was mentioned several times in the refugee subcommittee hearings concerned the more effective use of the many voluntary agencies  active in vietnam. i will urge the subcommittee members to suggest to the administration that u.s. aircraft be used to transport supplies and personnel. provided by the u.s. voluntary agencies. from the united states to vietnam. in this way. funds  needed for transportation will be freed for the direct benefit of the refugees. running through this entire discussion is the awareness of the central fact which faces our aid mission at every turn. namely. we can aid. we can advise. but we can replace the vietnamese themselves. it is their country. their future. their freedom. and their show. if one of our principal objectives is to strengthen the support of the people of south vietnam for their own government. it would be selfdefeating to even attempt to supplant south vietnamese officials in administering the aid program. i am convinced that there is much impatience and frustration with the administrative facilities  made available to us. but must  our impatience and frustration be softened by the startling fact that 603 vietnamese government civilian officials have been killed in the performance of their duty since jaunary 1. 1964. aher 1.431 have been kidnapped by the vietcong. if this terror campaign occurred in the united states in the same intensity. it would mean that some 35.000 u.s. elected officials and civil servants would be killed or kidnapped in the same period of time. this should give us some sober idea of the mortal dangers faced by every conscientious south vietnamese government official. the fact is that this is just one of the grave difficulties facing the effective execution of our vital aid and ecoic development program in south vietnam. we are forced by the pressure of events to work in an atmosphere of war and terror in a nation of 16 million people who have been at war virtually continuously for the past quarter of a century. is it any wonder that the bulk of the farmers in the hamlets and villages of south vietnam are at best neutral in the struggle against the vietcong. and at worst hostile to the south vietnamese government and its american allies and advisors. this is the situation we face. and must overcome. the fact is that it can only be overcome by positive efforts on the political and ecoic levels. our aid program to south vietnam is designed to do this. and it is worthwhile pointing out some of our accomplishments in this field. since 1954. the government of south vietnam has received more than $2.1 billion in ecoic aid under u.s. programs. the bulk of these funds have been used to promote longrange ecoic development and to provide the essential imports required by the vietnamese ecoy and necessary to maintain price stability. the remainder of aid funds have been used to directly. benefit the vietnamese people by increasing rural incomes and by providing concrete social benefits. such as schools. health clinics. and so forth. many of these programs have been successful and are too little kn in this country. for example. a el idea to raise food production and living standards by providing each participant with the use of american surplus corn. 3 pigs and 8 sacks of cement to construct pigsties has already put 5.000 families in the pigraising business. this is giveaway program. the farmers take out 8percent loans to buy one female breeder pig and two market pigs and to pay for whatever local materials they need to complete their concrete pigsties. they buy the surplus corn on a credit basis without interest from their cooperatives. but are expected to repay when they sell their first pigs. repayments have already started. all it costs aid is the equivalent of about $6 per farmer to pay for the concrete. so for $30.000 we can improve materially the conditions of 5.000 families in 1964. 23.000 metric tons were granted. and aher 77.000 metric tons sold through the vietnamese national agricultural credit organization and cooperatives. these amounts are in addition to about 150.000 metric tons financed under the commercial import program for regular sale. making a quarter million metric tons used in that country to take just two examples. guatemalan golden flint corn and five improved varieties of sweet potatoes have been successfully introduced in south vietnam. and plant protection and agricultural experimentation centers have been established throughout most of the country. one of the most impressive and productive programs has been the technical aid to fishermen. production of fish products increased from 52.000 million tons in 1955 to 342.000 million tons in 1963 due to nylon nets. junk motorization and new methods introduced by aid. this project serves to overcome the dietary protein deficiency and reduce the consumer price of fish products in vietnam. our aid personnel are also involved in many programs designed to provide immediate social benefits to the people of vietnam. we have made impressive gains in at least two areas. education and health. first. as to education: in addition to the hamlet school construction program mentioned earlier. and the training of hamlet schoolteachers and the distribution of textbooks. we are helping to expand and to improve longestablished teachertraining and vocational education programs. we have provided the funds for the construction of mal schools to train up to 2.100 elementary schoolteachers a year. a central polytechnical school and three secondary level polytechnical schools in the provinces. in addition. six other technical schools have. been expanded and reequipped. these ten technical schools have a student capacity of 6.550. but some of the most effective activity in the education field has been in the area of trade schools institutions which can provide the majority of vietnamese youth with the skills their nation so desperately needs. for example. we have established a system of 20 schools to provide practical training in such areas as woodworking. general mechanics. metal working. forestry. irrigation practices. and the use of basic agricultural implements to graduates of the 5year elementary school program. in addition to construction. this project provides hand tools. laboratory equipment. teaching aids. and school furniture. construction of 17 additional schools has been approved and 14 sites selected. enrollment in vietnams rural trade schools totals over 720 students. second. as to health: in the field of health. the hamlet health station is designed to show the people of south vietnam that their government is concerned for their medical needs and is trying to meet them. this is probably the most dramatic part of a complete health program which is trying to improve standards at all levels. this program includes funds for a new medical college. nurses training courses. and the retraining of hamlet health officials. as well as vaccination and disease control projects. similar to the highly successful malaria and cholera control programs. aid also supports a provincial hospital development program designed to improve the standards of patient care by extending the capacity for surgical services and improving the quality of medical and nursing services in selected hospitals. nearly 6.000 operations were performed in 1964 under this program. sixteen hospitals have been or are being reated for the use of u.s. or other free world surgical teams. and additional surgical suites have been constructed at several other sites for a total of 26 in provincial hospitals. at present. surgical teams from the united states. new zealand. philippines. australia. italy. and taiwan are operating in 11 different locations. the netherlands has an advanced party there  and south korea has a large military hospital there . 
