 of chile said: the alliance has  reached the people of latin america for whom it was created. he points out the need to involve the popular membership institutions. labor unions. student federations. cooperatives. and so forth. in the goals of the alliance. the present pause for stocktaking of the alliance for progress affords us with an opportunity to explore how these groups can be involved. in some nations. these institutions do  exist at all. together with our latin american partners we must consider how they can be created and encouraged. aher significant new departure in the alliance that is spotlighted in this joint resolution is the increasing emphasis on regionalism. the benefits that would flow from an effective ecoic integration effort are obvious: the possibility of ecoies of scale. the incentive to investment of foreign and domestic capital. a pool of resources for the creation of needed transportation. commurications and power infrastructure. and the possibility of more rapid ecoic growth through strengthened competition and the ability to allocate and develop industries on a rational basis. in addition. the regional ecoic thrust can lead to an atmosphere in which other forms of cooperation can be achieved in the hemisphere and excessive nationalism can be moderated. we can have illusions that progress will be rapid in any of these areas. but we can be sure that if we do  join in this partnership for development and continue the efforts already begun. the future of the hemisphere may take a violent course that is  in our best interests  productive of sound development. as the committe report clearly states. our support of this resolution in way involves a commitment to the future authorization and appropriation of funds for the alliance for progress. it commits us only to full consideration of the proposals that emerge from the summit conference. it is  a new expression of policy. it is rather a reafirmation of our historic determination to work for evolutionary ecoic. social. and political development in the hemisphere.
