. i am pleased to recommend adoption of the conference report on the laborhew chapterchapter ivof the fiscal year 1978 supplemental appropriations bill. the laborhew chapter provides $350.689.000 to take care of a few important requirements which have developed since action on the regular fiscal 1978 bill. i am glad to report that we were able to sustain most of our amendments to the house bill. i am particularly pleased that the house has voted to accept our amendment to provide $200 million for the emergency fuel assistance program under the community services administration. the conferees were unable to agree on this item. but the full house has voted to recede and concur with the senate action. this means that $200 million will be available. at the outset of the winter. to provide the poor and near poor. including the elderly. with emergency assistance to pay fuel bills in the event of aher severe winter. the funds are to be made available on a contingency basis. and will be directed only to those areas with energy emergencies. i commend my colleagues in the house for their foresight in supporting this measure. i am glad the conferees were able to reach agreement on funding for the intercultural facilities to be built at tufts university in boston and at georgetown university. tufts fletcher school of law and diplomacy and georgetowns school of foreign service are two of the nations oldest and finest institutions for the training of foreign service personnel. they will serve as excellent models for the testing of the intercultural center concept. i was pleased. too. that the house agreed to the senates amendment to provide $124 million for the continued operation of the indochinese refugee program. the program will begin a planned. orderly phaseout over the next 4 years. i also was pleased that the house and senate agreed on the need for additional staff for the labor department. this action will strengthen the enforcement of minimum wage and overtime laws in industries with large numbers of undocumented workers. and will improve the handling of the growing workload of trade adjustment assistance cases. and we agreed to the borrowing authority requested by the administration for mandatory default payments on guaranteed student loans. we have limited laborhew items to those with an immediate need for appropriations. i recommend them to the senate and urge adoption of the conference report.
