. reserving the right to object. and i do  intend to object. inasmuch as this bill is on the consent calendar. i would like to get more clarification of the house committee amendment. it will be ed in section 2 of senate joint resolution 38 that the other body inserted an amendment which spells out in rather complete detail the things that shall be reported upon to the congress by the attorney general. but. when that is analyzed. i think it will be made clear that it is simply spelling out the prohibitions of article 5 of the interstate oil compact which has been in effect in substantially the same form for some 20 years. the house committee has recommended a much more concise amendment making it necessary for the attorney general to make annual reports for the duration of this compact as to whether or  the activities of the state under the provisions of such compact have been consistent with the purpose as set out in article v of such compact. the attorney general. in filing his report. raised the question as to the advisability of requiring the department of justice to make this sort of report. pointing out that it involved a certain amount of ecoic study and indicating that the department would  be in a position to make an adequate study. however. i would like the record to show that section 11 of the natural gas act specifically requires the federal power commission to assemble and keep current pertinent information relative to the effect and operation of any compact between two or more states heretofore or hereafter approved by the congress and make such information public. and report to the congress from time to time the information so obtained. together with such recommendations as may appear to be appropriate or necessary to promote the purposes of such compact. in all frankness i should say that i do  consider the report of the federal power commission signed by its chairman as at all satisfactory to those who for many years. at least since the 80th congress. have made an effort to have some responsible agency in this government attempt to look into the question as to whether the provisions of article v. which were specifically and definitely written into this compact. are being carried out in good faith. i think the congress is entitled to that information. i think the congress is entitled to the recommendation of the federal power commission on the ecoic side. the chairman of the commission reports. apparently with satisfaction. that information was given to the congress in 1948 and a brief summary was given to the congress in the 1954 annual report. i submit that that is kind of a way to discharge a serious obligation imposed upon an agency of this government. if the federal power commission is  interested. and at times i think they are . in the question of a proper development of a power policy. particularly as it relates to oil and natural gas. then i think the commission should be changed or else congress should write some more definite rules for its conduct. in any event. unless the chairman of the subcommittee. the gentleman from arkansas or the chairman of the full committee. the gentleman from tennessee . sees fit to dispute my basic contention. i would like to have that left in the recoad as of this moment for the attention.  only of the attorney general and any subdivision which is charged with the responsibility under this law and the antitrust laws. but also the federal power commission. i believe those two agencies could and should work together in the interest of the public. unfortunately. i must add. as a member of the current miity. that i do  think they have been working in the interests of the public. i think there has been a great deal of dilatory action. i think much could be accomplished if they were to look at the law and read its plain import and carry out their sworn obligation. i do  say that that applies to the attorney general at this stage. but i do want to say that i am  satisfied. that 2 reports in over 20 years do  constitute anything like a jealous guarding of the rights of the public.  do they. in my opinion. constitute a carrying into effect of the solemn words of the compact in article v. where the other body. as a matter of fact. in its version. simply spelled out article v. what i want to come back to is this: is  the amendment that the committee has recommended essentially a concise form of stating that we want the attorney general to look into this situation. to report to us annually as to whether or  the interstate compact is working as it should work under the provisions of article v.
