. i ask that the statement of united techogies corp. on the need to clarify the provisions of the foreign corrupt practices act submitted to the banking committee on july 16. 1981. be printed in the record.
 of ingersollrand co.. one of the worlds largest manufacturers of industrial machinery. on the need to eliminate the ambiguities in the foreign corrupt practices act in the senate banking committee hearing on s. 708 on may 21. 1981. be printed in the record. the testimony follows:
. as i have previously stated before this body. i am completely confident that our nations small business concerns have the capability to provide the government with the quality products required. in a timely fashion. at competitive prices. american small businesses have the technical skills. ination management. and vitality that makes them the basic thread of our nations ecoic fabric. they can. and do. bring the same qualities to the federal procurement marketplace. because of my belief in the capabilities of our nations small businesses to compete very effectively. the small business and federal procurement competition enhancement act of 1984 does  include any new small business setaside programs or call for the expansion of any existing ones. the bills purpose. pure and simple. is to increase competition. exin:. i dear senator: the senate small business committee has reported out 8. 2489. the "small business competition enhancement act of 1984." this bill. introduced by senators lowell weicker (rct) and alan dixon (dil). has 22 cosponsors in the senate and the strong support of the organizations listed below. many of our organizations have contacted you in the past to express our support for 8. 1730. the predecessor to this bill which was introduced last summer by senator dixon. we were pleased to see the comments and suggestions that were generated by the original proposal and are especially supportive of the improvements found in s. 2489. 8. 2489. when enacted. will constitute significant reform of the federal procurement system. the bill does  superimpose requirements on an alreadyburdened system. the bill incorporates within the system incentives for more competitive and efficient contracting out. the bill: provides "points" during the awarding of design and production contracts to encourage prime contractors to include specific proposals in their bids to facilitate competitive procurement of "spare parts". permits the use of "prequalification" requirements only when agencies can justify their use under specific. prescribed standards. and provides for assistance to small firms seeking qualifications. establishes procedures to ensure the governments access to technical data necessary for future competitive "spare parts" procurements. specifies procedures to validate proprietary data rights asserted by contractors and provides financial disincentives to deter contractors from falsely asserting such rights. expands the small business administrations pilot breakout procurement center representatives (bpcr) program and specifies their authority and responsibilities as advocates for competition. and requires the timely ice of forthcoming procurements and provisions for sufficient descriptive information to facilitate a sound decision by prospective contractors whether or  to respond to a solicitation. we are in agreement that this bill offers significant and essential improvements in the procurement process. and with the addition of sufficient enforcement mechanisms. will be a major advance in federal procureinent. we would request that you give serious thought to cosponsoring this legislation. we look forward to your favorable consideration of this request. if you have any questions. please feel free to contact any one of us. sincerely.
. as i have previously stated before this body. i am completely confident that our nations small business concerns have the capability to provide the government with the quality products required. in a timely fashion. at competitive prices. american small businesses have the technical skills. ination management. and vitality that makes them the basic thread of our nations ecoic fabric. they can. and do. bring the same qualities to the federal procurement marketplace. because of my belief in the capabilities of our nations small businesses to compete very effectively. the small business and federal procurement competition enhancement act of 1984 does  include any new small business setaside programs or call for the expansion of any existing ones. the bills purpose. pure and simple. is to increase competition. exin:. i dear senator: the senate small business committee has reported out 8. 2489. the "small business competition enhancement act of 1984." this bill. introduced by senators lowell weicker (rct) and alan dixon (dil). has 22 cosponsors in the senate and the strong support of the organizations listed below. many of our organizations have contacted you in the past to express our support for 8. 1730. the predecessor to this bill which was introduced last summer by senator dixon. we were pleased to see the comments and suggestions that were generated by the original proposal and are especially supportive of the improvements found in s. 2489. 8. 2489. when enacted. will constitute significant reform of the federal procurement system. the bill does  superimpose requirements on an alreadyburdened system. the bill incorporates within the system incentives for more competitive and efficient contracting out. the bill: provides "points" during the awarding of design and production contracts to encourage prime contractors to include specific proposals in their bids to facilitate competitive procurement of "spare parts". permits the use of "prequalification" requirements only when agencies can justify their use under specific. prescribed standards. and provides for assistance to small firms seeking qualifications. establishes procedures to ensure the governments access to technical data necessary for future competitive "spare parts" procurements. specifies procedures to validate proprietary data rights asserted by contractors and provides financial disincentives to deter contractors from falsely asserting such rights. expands the small business administrations pilot breakout procurement center representatives (bpcr) program and specifies their authority and responsibilities as advocates for competition. and requires the timely ice of forthcoming procurements and provisions for sufficient descriptive information to facilitate a sound decision by prospective contractors whether or  to respond to a solicitation. we are in agreement that this bill offers significant and essential improvements in the procurement process. and with the addition of sufficient enforcement mechanisms. will be a major advance in federal procureinent. we would request that you give serious thought to cosponsoring this legislation. we look forward to your favorable consideration of this request. if you have any questions. please feel free to contact any one of us. sincerely.
. i would like to annce that the subcommittee on government procurement of the committee on small business will hold a field hearing on small business participation in the federal procurement process. specifically. the field hearing will focus on the results of the various competition advocacy and spare parts breakout programs being undertaken as a result of the "competition in contracting act of 1984." public law 98369. the "small business and federal procurement competition enhancement act of 1984." public law 98577. and the agency initiatives. and the extent to which these programs have created additional competitive contracting opportunities for small business. further. the committee will seek testimony concerning various programs. provided by governmental and governmental sources. assisting small business to effectively pursue these expanded numbers of competitive contracting opportunities. in addition to small business government contractors. the committee will receive testimony from representatives of the department of the air force. the department of transportation [faa]. the florida and oklahoma small business development centers. and the indiana commerce center. the field hearing will be held on saturday. march 22. 1986. commencing at 10:30 a.m. at the officers club. tinker air force base. oklahoma city. ok. further information concerning this field hearing can be obtained from the committees procurement policy counsel. william b. montalto. at 2245175.
. i wish to annce that the committees ice which appeared in the contained a misprint. the senate small business committees oversight hearing on the implementation of the prompt payment act. public law 97177. will take place on thursday. june 19. 1986. and  in july. as was erroneously printed by the record. the hearing will commence at 10 a.m..and will be held in room 428a of the russell senate office building. for further information. please contact william b. montalto. procurement policy counsel for the committeei at 224-
. i have expressed previously my conviction that subsidies to air carriers should remain subject to the establishment of the actual need of the individual carrier under the terms of the civil aeronautics act. it seems to me that an award of a subsidy based upon anything less than a disclosure of the complete ecoic record of the individual carrier involved would be distorted and would create the possibility. if  the probability. of requiring payments which could  be justified. i realize that the current proposal is urged as a means of encouraging subsidized air carriers to replace their present flight equipment and that the limitations and conditions provided are intended as safeguards. but i am concerned that this broad exclusion. applied to all subsidized air carriers. irrespective of the circumstances which create the capital gain involved. would so weaken the requirement of establishing need in an individual case as to be a major step toward abandoning it as a useful standard. if. by legislation. one kind of profit may  be considered as "other revenue" under the act. i feel certain that additional proposals will be pressed for the exclusion of profits other than from the sale of aircraft. indeed that issue was urged unsuccessfully as to the profits from the sale of a certificate and route together with aircraft and other equipment. in the western airlines case. and subsequently as to gains from the sale of securities and other tangible property. as well as of flight equipment. in the system mail rates case. and such treatment of capital gains on all depreciable property was presented in the original version of this legislation in 1956. since i believe strongly that the "need" standard. which would be retained in the act under this proposal. is the key to any justifiable award of subsidies to air carriers. i can support legislation which. in my mind. would be a major step toward making that standard ineffective.
 of the xerox corp.. in rochester. n.y.. has been named businessman of the year for 1966 by the saturday review. this is a welldeserved ho for an outstanding new york businessman. it is especially significant to me because mr. wilson is deeply committed to the concept of a creative partnership between business and government. and has shown. through numerous actions. that he is deeply conscious of the public service responsibilities of business and its leaders. this is a concept which is very precious to me. and which has been the cornerstone of my own political philosophy throughout my career. so i am doubly pleased to join in hoing mr. wilson. and congratulating him for serving the american system so brilliantly. the saturday review of january 8 has an excellent article on mr. wilson. which shows him to be a remarkable xcombination of successful business executive. publicspirited citizen. and corporate philosopher. i ask unanimous consent that this article be printed in the record.
. the amendment i have offered answers the need i have discussed by designating an urban dividend of $600 million the first year and $900 million for each subsequent year to. be divided among the states according to an urbanized population formula. the definition of urban population in the amendment is the same as the census bureau definition. in speaking of the urbanized areas of the countries let us remember we are speaking of areas in which well over half of the population of the united states lives and works. that is the urban content of our population. this urban dividend. which i have described. is financed partly out of the growth factor written in the committee bill. specifically. the amendment deletes the $300 million annual growth factor in the committee bill for calendar years 1973. 1974. and 1975. the $300 million growth factor for 1976 has been left in. the amendment which i have offered differs in one important respect from the amendment as i had it printed at the time when i laid it on the table just about a week ago. at that time the amendment called for $900 million the first year. i have reduced that to $600 million. i was very encouraged by the response of my colleagues to the concept of an urbanization dividend. but as some reservations were expressed about the amendments cost. i decided to cut that cost for the first year. as a kind of preload year. by $300 million. the cumulative cost for the entire 5year period of the bill. if my amendment were adopted. would be $31 billion. compared to $29.5 billion for the basic finance committee bill. state would receive any less under my measureother than the $300 million dividendthan what is provided by the finance committees bill. over the 5year period. 27 states would receive materially more. in order to give my colleagues an accurate picture of exactly what the amendment means to each state in its first years distribution both with and without the amendment which i have proposed. i send to the desk and ask unanimous consent that there be incorporated in my remarks an appropriate chart relating to the distribution.
. at a time when the american multinational corporation is coming under increased scrutiny in the congress and increased criticism at home and abroad. the highly positive contributions that such corporations make to our ecoy and the international ecoy are often overlooked. the prestigious conference board has  issued a report outlining the broad range of public service programs that the american multinational corporations undertake in the nations in which they operate. i ask unanimous consent that the press release of the conference board which was issued on may 21 be printed in the record.
