. i have asked for this time in order to make one point with respect to this debate which i do  think has been adequately made. it bears upon the basic question of whether or  this bill outlaws any group. in view of the fact that section (3) of the bill is the heart of the triology of the bill that makes the outlawing. i would like to explain to the house why i believe this bill outlaws the communist party and will drive it underground. a course to which such distinguished citizens as gover dewey and senator taft pre opposed. and i add mayor odwyers opposition to this very bill in connection with this discussion. as you read the sweeping findings of fact which are in this bill. i think you must come to the conclusion that the congress could write a bill tomorrow making findings of fact with the broadest implicaticns. about any other group which is a miity group and which a majority of the members of the house may  like at some future time. on the basis of those broad findings of fact. the house could seek to outlaw that group. that might be sought to be applied to people of the catholic or jewish faith or any other miity group. i feel. therefore. that in opposing this bill and pointing out this particular matter in connection with it. i am serving the interests of all my constituents. if the members will refer to page 16. they will find among the findings of fact. the following: (6) the political organizations so established and utilized in various countries. actlng under such control. direction. and discipline. endeavor to carry out the objectives of the world communist movement by bringing about the overthrow of existing governments and setting up communist totalitarian dictatorships which will be subservient to the most powerful existing communist totalitarian dictatorship. if the members will then turn to section 3. which contains in subparagraph (3) a definition of "communist political organization." it  reads. as amended. and i read from page 21. lines 16 to 18: it is reasonable to conclude that it is under the control of such foreign government or foreign governmental or political organizationit has already been stated that only the communist party of the united states is meant. hence. the bill is defining what it has already found in its findings of fact. then. if we turn to sections 4 and 5. we find first that it is made unlawful to advocate any such thing as according to the findings of fact this communist political organization is said to advocate. and in section 5. as i pointed out before. those who are convicted of a felony are  only deprived of citizenship. but if they are nativeborn americans they are deprived of nationality. therefore. as soon as such an organization registers it admits its officers and active members are guilty of a felony. and if that does  mean outlawing the communist party i do  k what would do it. and that course is considered as inimical to our very efforts to fight communism by some of the most distinguished americans in public life.
