. i am sure that every member of this body shares my concern with the growth of the evasion mentality in america. is it  time we realized that our government has unwittingly produced a system that encourages this mentality. can a representative government of freemen long survive when it encourages the destruction of one of the individual character traits that make democracy possiblethe sense of responsibility for the conduct of our national affairs. indeed. this sense of responsibility can be evidenced by numerous other civil acts. but the draft system which is the law of the land today. inviting avoidance as it does. invites as surely an erosion of this central element in our democratic systemthe responsibility of the individual to carry his share of the load. there was a time when there was realistic alternative to the present draft system. that time is  long past. the present draft law will  expire until 1967. congress has ample time to give deep and serious thought to this problem. to consider whether. in fact. we need a draft system. what improvements can be made in existing procedures. we owe it to the american people to devise a military manpower procurement system which will bolster our national security. minimize the harmful social side effects of the present system. hold the governments invasion of individual liberty to a minimum. spread the burden fairly among our young men. and eliminate the encouragement of the evasion mentality present in our current system.
. i heartily concur in the statement of my colleague from new york and strongly urge approval of the proposed amendment. the geographical transfer of certain functions of a government department. be it the quartermaster purchasing agency or any other agency. should be based on concrete facts. facts grounded in equity. in ecoy. and in the best interests of the government. the evidence presented by the department of defense in support of this move does  appear to justify the taking of such a step at this time. the facts which have come to my attention present a strong case for the retention of these purchasing functions in their present quarters. i have had this matter under advisement since the early part of the year. as a result of inquiries and protests on my part. i had been led to believe that such action was  contemplated. we are  faced with the transfer of the functions of the quartermaster purchasing agency in the absence of a thorough and complete study of prevailing procurement practices. at this point in my remarks i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the body of the record the text of a letter sent to the secretary of the army by the commissioner of commerce of the state of new york. which analyzes the departments supporting data. and also the text of the reply signed by the under secretary of the army. it will be ed that several of the important points in the commissioners letter are  answered satisfactorily by the under secretary. i also ask that the texts of two telegrams i sent to secretary of defense wilson dealing with this matter be printed at this point in my remarks.
 i rise in support of h.r. 16443. i would e for the benefit of the members that the administration supports this bill. and specifically we have received communications. both written and verbal. from mr. kunzig. the administrator of the general services administration. and from rod kreger. assistant administrator. specifically they ask that two sections of the draft bill be changed. sections 903 and 904. and there is a committee amendment appended to the bill here today. among other things. it makes it clear that the procurement procedures must deal with less than three of the firms deemed to be most highly qualified to provide the services required.
i am grateful to the senator from arkansas.  debating the bill or the constitutionality. i would like to see if we could get agreement on some facts. one of the statements made by the senator from new york is: let there be mistake about this. either: in the field of education. the public sector is slowly but inexorably vanquishing the private. . this is my question. the statistics which i have obtained from the national center for educational statistics. which is in the office of education of hew. show the following: after world war ii. public schools took a very dramatic growth. that reached its peak in about 1965. there then followed a very dramatic decline until 1970. since 1970. the percentage of youngsters in public schools in the united states of america has remained constant. and indeed slightly grown. the percentage. . in his statement the senator from new york bewails the fact that there were 2.246 fewer private schools in existence in 1976 than there had been a decade earlier.
. later in the evening or possibly tomorrow the senate will approve h.r. 1606. a bill to name the post office at 24 corliss street in providence. ri after a rened rhode islander and a proud americanharry kizirian. senator pell and i introduced the bill earlier this year. and representatives jack reed and patrick kennedy introduced identical legislation in the house of representatives. which also has been approved. i greatly appreciate the help of senator stevens. chairman of the governmental affairs subcommittee on post office and civil service. in helping to obtain approval of our proposal in an expeditious manner. harry kizirian is a household name in rhode island because of his lifelong career in the postal service but. even more so. because of his involvement with and commitment to his community. he has served on the board of directors of butler hospital. big brothers of rhode island. the providence human relations commission. rhode island blue cross. and the rhode island heart and lung associations. over the years he has earned countless awards and citations for his community involvement. he was inducted into the rhode island hall of fame and received the roger williams award. he served on advisory boards for rhode island college. providence heritage commission on r.i. medal of ho recipients. the disabled american veterans. and the marine corps league. the lessons learned from harry kizirian are lessons of fortitude. valor. strength of character. and perseverance. while harry was just a boy in school. at mt. pleasant high school in providence. he went to work part time as a postal clerk. he was 15 years old and his father had died. so harry took responsibility for supporting his family. he did so while keeping his grades up and participating in athletics. twenty years later. at 35. harry was named postmaster of rhode island. a position he held for more than 25 years. like many young men at the time. harrys job was interrupted by world war ii. the day after high school graduation harry enlisted in the marine corps. he fought on okinawa with the 6th marine division. he was awarded the navy crossthe second highest ho a marine can receivefor his valor on okinawa. harry and a group of marines were pinned down by a japanese machine gunner. harry got up and ran toward the machine gun. he was shot in the legs. despite his injuries. he pulled himself forward and eliminated the enemy position. this extraordinary act of valor sent harry kizirian. a teenage boy. to a hospital in guam with the navy cross. a bronze star. and a purple heart with a gold star. harry kizirian was seen by millions of americans as the face of the war in the pacific. before he was injured. a news photographer captured his image. the image of a boy in battle. for the cover of the new york times sunday magazine. last ember. i was present when harry was hoed by his old atwoodbucci detachment of the marine corps. the famous photograph was prominently displayed on the podium. after the war. harry returned to providence and to his job at the post office. he was a substitute clerk. by 1954 he was made foreman. he was named assistant superintendent during the transition from the old postal system to the turnkey mechanization system. the providence post office on corliss street was the first post office in the country to use the turnkey system. the turnkey system was the first fully automated system for sorting the mail. until that point. all of the mail was sorted by hand. the new system was  easily implemented. but once again harry rose to the challenge. in 1961. harry was rewarded for his hard work and dedication. he was named postmaster of rhode island. what better way to ho the life and lessons of harry kizirian than to name the post office of corliss street for him. i am delighted that the senate has voted unanimously to name our historic post office in providence "the harry kizirian post office building." again. many thanks to senators stevens and pryor for their help.
. i ask that a poem by virginia louise doris be entered in the record. ms. doris. distinguished poet and historian from my hometown of warwick. ri. has written this poem to commemorate those who lost their. lives in the bombing of the murrah federal building in oklahoma city over 2 years ago. the poem follows:
. i ask that a poem by virginia louise doris be entered in the record. ms. doris. distinguished poet and historian from my hometown of warwick. ri. has written this poem to commemorate those who lost their. lives in the bombing of the murrah federal building in oklahoma city over 2 years ago. the poem follows:
. i urge my distinguished colleagues to consider carefully the significance of this nations strategic submarine based missile system. i recognize there are those who would reduce. delay. or eliminate the trident submarine program by attacking the $654.6 million in research funds and $872.8 million in ship construction and weapons procurement as recommended by the senate armed services committee. certainly i share the concern of my colleagues for domestic priorities. and seek to fulfill our commitment to social and ecoic programs for the american people. nevertheless. i must assess the cost of  applying a part of our national resources to the maintenance and upgrading of our essential strategic deterrent force. i must ask myself what the billion and a half dollars will buy. and what the consequences would be if we forgo this investment in national defense. our present fleet of polaris and poseidon submarines has proved a most effective implement of peace. magnificent as their contribution has been and continues to be to this very day. we must  lose sight of the fact that they are becoming old ships. many are over 10 years old today. and. by the time our trident force can be sent to sea in numbers in the early 1980s. they will be approaching their life expectancy of 20 years. the navy has testified that the costs of maintaining these ships beyond that point can be expected to escalate rapidly. beyond my conviction that to provide  for an orderly production of trident submarines as replacements for these ships will prove to be ecoical in the long run. there is a much more serious consideration. despite their age. polaris submarines have proved invulnerable to detection. can we assume they will always be so. we have heard of the rapidly expanding russian naval force. the majority of their ships are newer than ours. i believe that trident will provide that vital "one step ahead." i am told the trident will remain undetectable at speeds up to 21/2 times as great as our present submarines. this will allow them to range into ocean areas 14 times that accessible to presentday vessels. in addition. these modern ships conceived and built with the techogy of tomorrow rather than the techogy of the 1950s provide the latitude for the qualitative improvements we must make in the years ahead in order to be able to continue to undertake successful new initiatives for peace. in light of the increasing maintenance problems and decreasing cost effectiveness of our polarisposeidon fleet. the navy must move forward with long lead development and initial procurement . such other significant factors as obsolescence by age and techogy. considerations of option for deployment. and assessments of soviet strategic action and posture at salt ii. are additional justification for funding for the vital trident program. of course the authorization commits scarce national resources. but the issue is one of this nation surviving in a world that does  yet take peace for granted.
to complete the discussion of this particular item. i wish to emphasize to my colleagues on the civil service committee that in presenting these matters to the appropriations committee i selected the four which seemed to be the most striking and vital of the group. this one involved a reduction of onethird ofan item. if the question were sent to conference. the house would be enabled to discuss that question on its merits. even that onethird impressed me as  being all in the same class. for example. a reduction of onethird would involve two kinds of activities. it is stated on behalf of the civil service commission that its activities in connection with recruiting for pearl harbor and for other key navy yards. for war department manufacturing establishments. and for the veterans administration. including. of course. hospitalization facilities. would be crippled. that is the vital factor in the argument. qn the other hand. it has been stated that this would come at just the time when congress has under consideration the enactment of veterans preference legislation. which will place upon the commission important responsibilities designed to protect the rights of veterans to preference for federal jobs. the commission states that if these proposed cuts are made it will be absolutely impossible for it to discharge its responsibilities in an expeditious manner. the commission is anticipating something which does   exist. it might very well be that if legislation were enacted. and there were more preference work to be done. the commission would have a stronger claim at that time than it has at this time.
the pending amendment is a very simple one. its purpose and effect is to raise the compensation of the district of columbia commissioners from their present salary of $14.620 to $17.500. there are 3 commissioners2 civilian commissioners and 1 engineer commissioner. in the case of the latter he would be paid the difference between his army compensation and $17.500. the amendment has been approved unanimously by the members of the committee on the district of columbia. and i understand that the leadership on both sides and the chairman of the committee on post office and civil service have objection to it.
 hoovers postwar relief and educational activities. we are both members of the belgianamerican educational foundation. i have followed with great interest and admiration his brilliant business career and his outstanding military service in world war ii. i k of one who has maintained during his entire life higher standards of integrity and dedicated selfless public service than adm. lewis strauss. let me add that lewis has had part in my sending this letter  does he k i have done so. with warm personal regards. i remain. always cordially yours. alex. h. alexander smith.
ial approval. we also need an agreement on how the equipment will be stored. fourth. an agreement that the proceeds from foreign arms sales must  be used as a means of financing new procurement of even more advanced weapons by the u.s. armed forces. such practices.  prevalent. give our departmerit of defense and our individual military services a vested interest in selling off old military stocks to get newer items for themselves. this practice undermines efforts to control the arms race. proceeds made on foreign military sales ought to go back to the treasury. congress. through the mal procedures. should approve all weapons procurement programs directly. these concerns and the problems which arose in the shaping of the arms sales package to saudi arabia show the need for changes in the procedures used in selling arms on such a massive scale to developing nations. there must be a- more thorough preliminary review of such proposed arms sales by -the white house. the state department. the arms control and disarmament agency. and congress before potential buyers are led to believe they have a commitment. in particular. foreign government should be allowed to feel it has a commitment on specific weapons or numbers before there have been full consultations with congress. we must end the cycle of disputes stemming from a fixation with figures. we can allow a repetition of situations in which it is claimed that the dignity of the potential purchasing country or the ho of the united states is at stake if the sale of a particular number or type of weapon is questioned or even rejected by congress. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record an editorial from the washington post of september 7. which points out some of the realities of the american political system which foreign arms purchasers should understand.
. i think that the committee members who are for this bill have made an excellent case for it. there is one point that has  been made that i think is very important. the original bill. when it was introduced. provided for a 17percentpay increase. if that had been done it would have resulted in a typical category like postal clerks salaries. in raising their pay commensurate with the rise in the consumers cost of living. and provided for increases more comparable with the rises which have .taken place in the wages of factory and similar workers since 1939. postal clerks had salary increases making their average salaries about 166.7 percent of 1939. during this same period the consumers price index of the department of labor1939=100has gone up to 185.4. on this basis a 17percent increase would have been just about right to enable the .postal clerks to keep up. the committee has  done that. -.. the committee has really brought in a package bill. as has been said here a number of times. combining a pay in(crease. elimination of certain lower grades. and adjusted compensation to people who came in after the war who were  called because of war services. the point that i would like to leave with the committee. and which i think every member should think of as these amendments come up. which endeavor to cut out this or cut out that. and nibble away at this billlike a fair retroactivity provisionis the fact that the committee has arrived at a compromise which is in balance. we should. insofar as we humanly can. if we want to be fair to the postal workers. keep all parts of this package bill together and pass this bill just as the committee. which has spent so much time and effort on it and has balanced it in all its detail. has brought it to us. there is one fundamental point about the compensation of postal workers we must all remember. they can strike. .they can engage in collective bargaining. their opportunities are limited. they.can go out and find other jobs. the post office is their career. we. the congress. are their bosses. it seems to me it calls on our part for our finest powers of judgment and equity. indeed. for a kind of human understanding which i think the committe has brought .to the package bill that it was brought in and  asks us to adopt. we must see that the justice of the nation is done. .that salaries and conditions of postal 1workers are commensurate with responsibilities. with prevailing salaries and jwages. with tenure of service. with merit and with the special conditions surrounding their lack of the comparable .ppportunities afforded by private employment. i hope very much that the committee of the whole will turn down these nibbling amendments and will pass the bill just as the committee brought it to us.
 eisenhower took e of the situation at his press conference on june 3 when he stated his belief that political and financial pressures may be intruding into decisions on defense spending. therefore. every effort must be made. both at the legislative and the administrative level. to maintain public confidence in military procurement activities. which involved for 1958 the expenditure of $23.8 billion. for that reason. i am for myself and the senator from illis . introducing this bill to establish guidelines of conduct for military officers who. following their separation from the service. are immediately hired by private industries. passage of a law such as the one we are proposing should sharply reduce the likelihood that military officers who have resigned and those who have retired may become involved in private business arrangements that would raise questions of ethics in connection with their former military duties. such a law would offer dual protection both to the former officers concerned and to the general public interest which is involved in defense department decisions affecting the construction and implementation of our modern weapons system. the bill retains present law. but would amend title 10armed servicesand title 18criminal codeof the united states code. as follows: 1. prohibits officers for a period of 2 years following their retirement from selling or negotiating with the department in which they hold their commission. either in their capacity as a private individual or as the employee of private industry. 2. permanently bars retired officers from selling or negotiating with respect to matters such as a particular aspect of weapons development or supply procurement for which they were directly responsible while on active duty. 3. prohibits such activities for 1 year in the case of officers who have resigned from the service. thus surrendering their benefits as officers and severing their relationship with the government. 4. declares as ineligible to receive defense contracts any company which employs exofficers for the purpose of selling or negotiating with their former military department in violation of the foregoing provisions. officers  employed by private firms would  be affected by this provision. also. under the terms of the bill. army and air force officers may  receive retirement pay while engaged in selling military supplies and services to their former department. which parallels the law which currently applies to navy and marine officers. the criminal penalties imposed on violators of the first three provisions listed above are similar to those imposed on them under existing federal conflict of interest laws to a limited extent. as well as to members of congress. other employees in the executive branch. and attorneys formerly employed by the government within the last 2 years. a maximum fine of $10.000 and a years imprisonment is provided for under the bill. let me emphasize that this proposed legislation is  meant to be a punitive measure. but. rather. a preventive one. it is  directed against any former officers or private industries.  is it meant to prevent the utilization of the talents and capabilities of former military officers by private industry. today. more than 700 such men of over the rank of colonel or navy captain are employed by the firms which reportedly have received the great majority of defense orders. it is desired only that the rules be precise and fair for such employment. although there are presently some gaps in the statutes preventing direct sales of goods to the federal government by retired officers. the most serious omissions in the law concern the contracting of services which may be negotiated by such individuals  in the employ of private firms. in this category are research and development activities. which are budgeted at $5 billion annually. first. because they are of a service and  a sales nature. and. second. because the great majority of the contracts in this field are negotiated. the proposed legislation should  be regarded as an attempt to unduly limit job opportunities available to officers leaving the armed services. their employment by industries where their past education and experience can constitute an invaluable contribution to the development of improved defense equipment produced by the most ecoic. efficient means serves the national interest. however. the existence of legal guidelines for both the former officers and their new employers is designed to allow all parties concerned to exercise mature judgment in the type of duties assigned to and accepted by such individuals. at the same time. the issue of the future employment of former officers has brought to light aher situation which i believe deserves careful study to determine whether existing law is discriminating unfairly against many officers who desire to continue in government service in a civilian capacity where their skill and experience could prove invaluable. without losing their retirement pay. the law  imposes strict limitations on the amount of retirement pay plus salary that certain military officers employed in civilservice positions may receive. it would appear to require considerable financial sacrifice on the part of such retired officers who are motivated by the highest patriotic considerations in wishing to serve the federal government in such posts. therefore. we are planning to have a study made to determine whether changes in these provisions should be proposed. this specific problem was brought to our attention by a column written by ted lewis and appearing in the new york daily news on monday. june 22. and i hereby request unanimous consent that it be inserted in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
i. too. should like to address a question to the senator from mississippi. first. i should like to associate myself with senator coooper in his concern. and to request that the information which the senator will furnish to senator cooper be furnished to me. also. second. . i believe the question which senator cooper asked should be viewed in the light of the experience we had in vietnam. the senator from mississippi will recall that we originally became involved militarily in vietnam through the military assistance program. then. from being map advisers--teaching the vietiamese how to use the military equipment we gave themour soldiers became advisers serving with combat units. that is. to advise them on how to conduct the actual combat operations. and then our men began taking an actual role in the combat. and finally. today. we are carrying the major combat burden ourselves. this transformation of the u.s. role from an map advisory function to active combat in vietnam was--at least in the earlier stagesalmost an invisible one. certainly the senate as a whole knew very little about. or about where it might lead. i hope that my misgivings prove to be wrong. but i am concerned about the united states slipping inadvertently and without full awareness into aher vietnamtype situation in thailand and its own guerrilla war there. i believe it should be spread across the record that as many senators as can be heard on this subject feel that before any such decision is taken vietnam style. we should be informed of it. specifically and in detail. and that it should  be taken under cover of this general procurement of military materiel and the use of such materiel in laos and thailand. i hope there will be ex post facto attempts by the administration. or any committee of the senate. to cite passage of this bill as approval of an extension of the u.s. role in thailands own antiinsurgency efforts. may we therefore understand. i ask the senator from mississippi. that. as he has said. if the catechism. the phraseology. which was used by the committee on foreign relations is adopted. it is  the intention of the committee to go beyond the intention of the foreign relations committee when it used the same catechism.
 and the congress on foreign policy are being realined. as shown in the debate on the military procurement authorization bill. that we are  powerless. i think that merely by introducing the bill. if hing else happens. the senator has rendered a very singular service. as to the merits of the matter. there may be a great many imperfections in respect to the practicality of the bill. we may simply be physically unable to do it. there may be a very good case for logistic support of the south vietnamese. even if they have to take over. as i want them to do. the whole combat responsibility. however. again. the idea of emphasizing the phasing out of the u.s. forces from combat responsibility is the only course open at this time. paris is stalemated. as the senator ks. i have been there recently. the thieu government is  broadening its base. it is narrowing its base. it is becoming less and less willing to negotiate on its own. there is only one course remaining. that is to say. "you take it over. it is yours. the heat is on you." then. they might see things differently. this is the course i have pursued. i am pleased that my colleague has joined me in that effort. i fully support the idea that the combat responsibility must be shifted as quickly as possible from the united states to the south vietnamese. i assure the senator that i will pursue the matter as a member of the coinmittee on foreign relations and otherwise. as the senator himself will do. as a senator and as a man of distinct importance in our country. i think the senator has done us a service in showing that the power of congress is there. that is what is meant by the power of the purse. the senator calls for the utmost use of that power. we may  choose to use it at this time. i do  think that we should but the senator has shown us that that power of congress is still possessed by congress. it has been a very singular contribution. i assure the senator that the matter will be treated with great seriousness by me and by many of my colleagues. it will have an important place in the historic resolution of a dreadful war. and the senator has accurately described this dreadful war in which the united states has become entangled. seemingly. if we listen to many people. with way of getting out. we refuse to accept that statement that we can get ourselves out. it is untrue. the senator has helped very materially in this regard.
s special representative for trade negotiations. has  gone uniced. words have been placed in the public record to the effect that his career in government. his service to america. is a quiet and effective answer to those who question this hoable occupation. allen garland was a washingtonian. government service came naturally to him. he started early in a modest civil service job. world war ii made him an infantryman. where he served his government in the front lines of europe. then the great american postwar effort to revitalize world trade occupied his energies through the 1950s and 1960s and until his retirement. allen garland was instrumental in training a whole generation of trade specialistsamong them jacques garlin of my staffwho are serving today in key positions both in and out of government. todays open trading system is mute testimony to the efforts of allen garland and others like him in many countries who labored diligently to break down the barriers to the international flow of goods. we do well to take e of that as we extend our sympathy to his loving family and his many friends.
