. it is a pleasure to salute the members of the drum and bugle corps on the occasion of the celebration of international drum corps week during september 2 to 9. the drum corps. with its music and pageantry. has a special appeal to teenagers. it is a fine outlet for their youthful energy and channels their high spirits and love of competition into a wholesome and worthwhile activity. everybody loves a parade. especially when it includes a drum and bugle corps. we thrill to their fine performance: the stirring music. the color and pageantry are enjoyed by performers and onlookers alike. i am glad indeed to support international drum corps week and am proud that new jersey with about 20.000 participants is kn as the "drum corps state."
i shall  try to enter into the intricacies of the debate. which my colleagues are very well able to handle. but to those like myself. who do  wish in any way to thwart the aggregate development of resources of our country. matter where they may be located in our country. a fundamental question is presented by the miity views. for which we must necessarily have great respect. since some of our distinguished colleagues are among the miity. the point to which i refer is contained on the first page of the miity views: the expenditure of the proposed e95 million would be far more effective in advancing the art of nuclear power if applied to the development of new techniques and processes than to the addition of 800.000 kilowatts of generating capacity at the hanford reactor which will contribute little to the goal of competitive nuclear power. my question of both the senator from new mexico and the senator from washington. who is handling the bill. is this: can we. who wish to contribute to the development of our resources. be given a sound reason. within reasonable compass. why we should support the expenditure of $95 million in this way. what are the alternatives by way of expending the money in some other way. which might or might  be more productive in terms of the aggregate resource development of our country.
