. the senate today offered its advice and consent to the ination of a new ambassador to the republic of south africa. i have doubt that mr. bowdier is well qualified for the position to which he has been named. i congratulate him on his selection for this important post. and consent to his ination. in doing so i also desire to perform the first function with which members of this body are constitutionally chargedi intend to give him. and with him our governmentsome advice on how his duties should be discharged. south africa is a country blessed with natural resources. scenic wonders. and industrious people. but it is tragically a country whose citizens are deeply scarred by a disastrous preoccupation with race. whose development is marred by the denial to more than threequarters of its people of full participation in the commerce. industry. and indeed the very life of the republic. it is a country whose potential is seriously obstructed by discord. divisiveness. and fear. the south african government considers the country to be a "white. developed" nation. yet "whites" constitute only 4 million. or about onesixth of its total population. and development is a status enjoyed primarily by the urban few. it does  prevail in the desolate stretches of land set aside as homelands for the countrys 17 million blacks. let me provide a few statistics to set this discussion in a proper context: the 17 million blacks of south africa lack mal rights of citizenship. they can own land. enjoy political rights. are kept in the most miserable and degrading of circumstances subject at any moment to search. seizure. imprisonment orworst of allbanishment forever to a homeland. the homelands are largely isolated rural areas set aside for the habitation of the blacks. black south africans are assigned to these areas on the basis of tribal origin. the large majority of blacks who have lived and worked throughout south africa until the last few years. have never seen or even been near the land  defined as "home." these homelands are small and scattered in area. and ridiculously unsuited to supporting the lives of the large numbers of people assigned to them. one homeland area. for example. consists of more than 100.000 acres. yet it is the designated "home" of 1.5 million people. homelands for the most part are areas unsuited to intensive agriculture. moreover they are lacking in access to readily available resources or transportation. unemployment in the areas ranges as high as 75 percent. the infant mortality rate is reliably estimated to be as high as 60 percent. other white races likewise fare poorly under south africas repressive racial system. "colored." or mixed white and black persons. who  number more than 2 million. are strictly segregated in special enclosures. having homelands to which they can be banished they are perhaps in the most unenviable position of allthey are destined to live out their lives. socially. politically. and ecoically. as secondclass citizens within south africa. this is a dreary picture. within the last year. however. for the first time. the people of south africa and their friends throughout the world were given some small fleeting cause to hope that the picture was about to change. first came the coup in portugal on april 25. 1974. which overthrew a government dedicated to maintaining an outmoded colonial system. the promise of independence was prompt and sure. the east african territory of mozambique acquired a transition government within a matter of weeks. and with a minimum of social or political disturbance. portugals principal west african colony. angola. is likewise headed toward full independence with determined efforts being made on all sides to bring together the formerly divided freedom movements. this sudden change in portugal and its territories did more than "weaken the bastions of white supremacy." in a single swift stroke. it moved the borders of the whitecontrolled enclave back a thousand miles. "white southern africa has  been reduced to south africa. its territories. and neighboring rhodesia. south africas response was full of flexibility. and of false hope. south african government officials became unexpected mediators in rhodesias internal racial conflict. when prime minister vorster became the surprising advocate of eventual black majority rule in rhodesia. that countrys ruling clique had little choice but to comply with his recommendations. isolated as it is. rhodesia is heavily dependent. ecoically and militarily. on its only friend and neighbor. but contrary to some expectations. this change of heart did  apply to conditions within south africa. the recommendations to the rhodesian government constituted hing more  less than a sacrifice ploy designed to prolong white supremacy in south africa. south africas recent initiatives toward the black african states constitute only aher aspect of this larger strategy. meetings between south african government officialsincluding prime minister vorsterand the leaders of african nations such as liberia and zambia. do  constitute de facto acceptance of the principle of equality between black and white regimes or peoples. much less are they likely to lead to recognition of full equality for south africas blacks. south africa simply is determined to avoid a war with the black nations if at all possible. while simultaneously preparing for such an eventuality. in october 1974. the united nations debated the issue of expulsion of south africa. the united states joined with britain and france in vetoing the move. simultaneously. south africas ambassador to the u.n.. the hoable pik botha. delivered a speech in which he promised significant changes in his countrys policies. and vowed that in "6 to 12 months time." the world would be "amazed at where south africa stands." once again. the nations and the peoples of the world took heart. once again. they have been disappointed. when the johannesburg city council voted to end "petty apartheid" prohibitions on use of the same libraries. museums. and park benches. the national government expressed strong objections. an anncement that the malan theater complex in capetown had been desegregated turned out to .mean that it could be used by different races on different nights. only strong objections from the people of capetown together with a reasonably successful boycott produced a concession to fully integrated audiences. within the last 6 months the government has taken credit for abolishing some longstanding repressive legislation. but it has replaced this with a new "affected organizations and riotous assemblies act." which. among other things has already led to the virtual banning of the national union of south african students--nusas---and to the prohibition of assemblies in support of the new government of mozambique. within the last 6 months. many thousands more africans have been removed to the homelands. and prime minister vorster has "clarified" ambassador bothas remarks by saying he was referring only to new initiatives toward the black african states. with greater progress toward separate development at home. the world is  amazed at where south africa stands 6 months after the botha speech. it is disheartened. disappointed. but determined that change will come. what should be the role of the united states in bringing about inevitable change. first of all. i believe that contact must be maintained. the south africans themselves have shown initiative by establishing political and ecoic contact with a growing number of black african nations. these nations have responded favorably. in the belief that such contact will eventually help to undermine the illogical ideological bases of apartheid in south africa. for the same reason. i favor a continued u.s. diplomatic presence in south africa. diplomatic recognition has never implied acceptance of a political system. what it does imply is rational acceptance of the first principle of civilized society: that it is as essential to k those who disagree with you as well as those with whom you agree. indeed. i believe our diplomatic presence affords unique opportunities for quietly but effectively promoting change. for instance. during the past several years the u.s. embassy and consulates have served as valuable meeting places for black and white south africans to exchange ideas. these meetings of the leaders of both communities have helped  only to increase understanding but to widen the dialogue within south african society. they must continue. second. the united states can and must demonstrate by its own actions a commitment to complete racial equality. this may involve personal hardships for some black career officers in our foreign service. but it is essential that larger numbers of black officers express willingness to serve in south africa. and that they be sent there. it is equally essential that u.s. government facilities practice complete racial equality in their employment of south african nationals. the state department has initiated a very constructive program of encouraging private american businesses to adopt more equitable employment practices. many u.s. companies doing business in south africa have already initiated programs to reward and enhance the abilities of their employees regardless of race. building on this beginning. the department of state in 1973 issued a report on "employment practices of u.s. firms in south africa" whach urged all u.s. companies to take such steps. subsequently. the department has issued guidelines calling for. among other things: equal pay for equa- work. adequate pension. insurance and medical benefits. supplementary education for workers children. assistance to employees in finding housing. regular skills training to increase productivity. and opportunities for advancement based solely on merit. these guidelines are  binding. but it is questionable whether specific legislation to make them so is either desirable or necessary. other steps could be taken instead. including most obviously the pressure of public attention. press and congressional inspection trips to south africa to examine business practices. and equal attention on the part of the press and stockholders in the home firms. can help to accelerate the rate of desired change. the united states. in fact. has been praised editorially both by the johannesburg star and the rand daily mail for providing this "stimulus for change." there are already encouraging signs that other countries are following suit. it was recently reported that the british government. for example. is encouraging its companies doing business in south africa to likewise adopt more equitable employment practices. including equal pay for equal work. and discrimination in employment and promotion. britain has also assigned a first secretary to its embassy with responsibility for reporting on the compliance of british companies with the new mode of employment practices. the united states would do well to follow suit. in addition to the pressure of foreign example. there are also ecoic pressures on the south africans to abolish the practice of reserving certain jobs for whites. south africas ecoy is presently growing at the rate of 7 percent per year. and the country has a serious shortage of skilled labor. more and more south african companies are circumventing the law by training whites as "assistants" to whites. which means they perform the same jobs at lower pay. abhorrent as this practice is. it at least helps to insure that "separate development" will  be achieved in the immediate future. and hopefully never. the key to the problem of apartheid does  lie just within the borders of south africa. part of the answer also lies with developments in neighboring territories. with regard to namibia. the united states concurs in the 1966 decision of the world court that south africa is illegally administering the territory. the united states therefore should apply a different standard with regard to that territory than it applies to the government of south africa. u.. investment should  be encouraged. and in fact investment guarantees should be withheld from companies which choose to trade or invest there. other initiatives which might be considered include scholarships and educational assistance to citizens of namibia. and increased diplomatic support for their complete independence. the former portuguese colonies of angola and mozambique offer unique opportunities for influencing south africas racial policies. south africa expects the multiracial societies of her neighbors to fail. if they do so. this will further fuel the argument of the south africans for separate development. the united states can and should help these newly independent nations to succeed. the united states can provide both development aid and technical assistance. to help these two nations create a viable and expanding ecoic base for their people. private investment should also be encouraged. gulf oil corp. already has a large and lucrative holding in angola. which is producing at the rate of several hundred thousand barrels of oil per day. angola is rich in other mineral resources as well. and with adequate investments and job opportunities both nations could provide sizable markets for u.s. goods. all of these are interim steps. designed to facilitate change in southern africa. but there is one more step. the most important one of all. the united states still needs to be perceived as taking a positive attitude toward quality and independence in southern africa for our voice to be effective in the context of southern africa. it must be unequivocal. there must be question of where we stand on those issues of vital import to south africas people: the right to own land. to live where they choose. to receive a fair wage. fair employment practices and the opportunity for fair advancement. and most of all. the right to decide their own destinies through full participation in the political process. on these issues. the united states can equivocate without damaging itself and the principles for which it stands. let others question our methods if they must. but let there be question about the goal we seek.
