. our nation is stunned by the plane disaster near brussels yesterday which wiped out 73 lives. including 17 members of our u.s. figure skating team. only a few sundays ago. millions of us sat enchanted before our television sets watching the dazzling skill of these youngsters competing at colorado springs. it is especially poignant to recall the excitement in their voices as they told of their forthcoming trip to prague for the international contest. three of the victims of the crash were from winchester. in the fifth district of massachusetts. mrs. maribel vinson owen and her two daughters. laurence and maribel. mrs. owen. a great champion in her own right. held nine national championships. both her lovely daughters were following in the tracks of their mothers silver skates. laurence at 16 was th american -figure skating champion. maribel held the u.s. pairs championship with dudley richards. of boston. aher casualty of the crash. words are insufficient when tragedy such as this strikes. my heartfelt sympathy goes to the families of all the victims of this shocking accident.
. last august on the floor of the house we voted to rely on the judgment of the distinguished members of the committee on science and astronautics in assessing the merits of nasas proposal for the construction of an electronics research center. we rejected an amendment to delete the funds authorized for the center and determined to wait until the detailed report requested by the committee was received and assessed. nasa duly filed its reporta detailed analysis of the need for an electronics research center in our overall space research effort. and a discussion of a number of possible locations. nasa did  pick the boston area site out of a hat. it established four basic criteria for the evaluation of sites: first. the proximity of educational institutions that have strength and research potential in engineering and science at the graduate level. second. the proximity of electronics and related support industry. third. the existence of an established community of scientists and engineers. and fourth. the availability of rapid and convenient air transportation to other parts of the country. hese criteria were applied to nine areas. the results are clear. there is area in the country more suited to make this contribution to our space effort than eastern massachusetts. this conclusion does  come from the proponents of various sites. but from government documents such as the department of health. education. and welfares compilation of degrees conferred in engineering and related fields. from the national academy of sciences lists of industrial research laboratories of the united states. from small business administration reports on firms able to perform research and development for the government. from national science foundation publications on the location of our scientific community. and from civil aeronautics board and federal aviation agency reports on air traffic and transportation. all of these factors are clearly documented in the nasa report. and on february 24. the committee approved the nasa report. including its recommendation of a massachusetts site. yet today we are again engaged in debate  only on the need for the center. but on the proper site. one disputes the need for additional electronics research. it has been demonstrated that a number of our difficulties with the space program thus far can be attributed to the lack of reliability of electronics equipment. although the bulk of our electronics research and development will continue to be conducted by private firms and educational institutions. nasa must serve as a catalyst and a coordinator for our efforts. the studies by nasa. concurred in by the committee indicate that the best organizational structure for the achievement of greater reliability in the electronics portion of our space program is an electronics research center. centralized management and direction can achieve a consistency of purpose. and an opportunity to assemble a fine staff of research personnel. much has been said about the concentration of many of our space activities on the east and west coasts. i would certainly hope that our activities can be diffused throughout the country. but in determining where to locate an important research facility today we must consider the criteria outlined above in light of present capabilities and performance in various sections of the country. to do otherwise is to betray our trust to provide the most ecoical and effective management of our nations space effort. nasa has recently annced plans to expand its research activities to educational institutions all over the country and i hope that this will be done. in the meantime. i think that we must concur in the judgment of the officials at nasa who have conducted detailed comparative analyses of approaches to our electronics problem and in the judgment of the members of the committee who have given many hours of hearings and executive sessions to these problems. i hope that the committee recommendations will be approved.
. i join with my colleagues in introducing this resolution to amend the house rules because i believe that to permit the appearance of the secretary of state on the floor of the house to answer written and oral questions put to him by members on vital foreign policy issues will be advantageous for the congress. for the executive branch. and for the american people. it would permit all members of congress to engage in a dialog with the secretary on foreign policy. this privilege is  restricted to those members who serve on the foreign affairs. armed services. government operations. and appropriations committees and their subcommittees. the secretary could use his valuable time with greater effectiveness by being able to reach so many members at one time. the american people would gain renewed confidence in the conduct of foreign policy through the free flow of information. as a member of the house foreign affairs committee. i appreciate the value of executive sessions and intensive discussions on some issues. but i also k that this approach is severely limited. it is difficult to engage in broad policy discussions and many members with outstanding expertise are never able to bring their own kledge and experience to bear on the debate. i hope that the house rules committee will permit a prompt airing of this resolution. it is  a new idea. in fact it dates back to the very first administration of george washington. i have asked unanimous consent to insert in the record following my remarks a background paper on the previous proposals to bring members of the executive branch before the congress. despite our overwhelming technical ination in communications techogy. there are still grave gaps in our flow of information on foreign policy. in my judgment the adoption of this resolution and the appearance of the secretary of state on the floor of the house would do a great deal to eliminate this gap and create more effective foreign policymaking. the background material follows:
 belaunde. felipe herrera. director of the international development bank. carlos sanz de santamaria. chairman of the alliance ciap committee and jose mora. director general of the organization of american states. all spoke to the delegates. each stressed the importance of this first step toward greater political cooperation and communication in latin america.  only for its own sake. but for the contributions that this development can make to the ecoic and social development and stability of the western hemisphere. in talking with many of the delegates to the session. i was impressed and moved by the spirit of cooperation and mutual concern expressed by the latin american legislators. while the meeting in lima was called originally to explore and discuss the possibility of further organization. the sentiment of the delegates for a permanent group led the conference to declare the lima meeting as the first session of the latin american parliament. it went on to establish the parliament as a permanent body with an executive secretariat. . the declaration of lima adopted during the session. specifically affirmed the goal of latin american integration as a necessary historic process and called upon the parliaments of the member nations to marshal governmental and public support for political integration. this declaration also provided for and encouraged the inclusion of additional nations in the future. it became evident when the parliamentarians got down to brass tacks on specific issues that there are innumerable areas of mutual concern in which each nation can profit from the experience of the others. in fact. i ed a genuine willingness to share ideas in the areas of agrarian reform. ecoic development. participation in international and regional institutions. and increasing exports. to be sure. there were some criticisms of u.s. policy expressed during the course of the meetings. but for the most part they were reasoned statements of differences in judgment. in fact. i felt at the time that to channel and communicate grievances could prove to have a healthy impact on hemispheric relations. i have taken this time today because i believe that the house should be aware of what our fellow legislators are doing in latin america to widen their channels of communications with one aher. just as the alliance for progress is working to build a foundation for greater ecoic and social cooperation. the regularization of political cooperation in the future. it is my belief that this meeting. called at the initiative of latin american legislators who have turned to a democratically organized parliament for the discussion of problems of mutual concern in a significantdevelopment in latin american affairs. and one of which every member of the u.s. congress should be aware.
. practically every day we see in the newspapers reports of fresh challenges to the integrity of the government of thailand. just this morning. for example. the new york times cited steppedup guerrilla activity and infiltration in the rural areas. prior to the recent meeting of seato foreign ministers. 20 republican members of the house of representatives issued a statement urging the united states to press for a renewed commitment to thailand at the london conference. we were pleased to see that paragraph 16 of the communique issued after the meeting said: the council ed with concern evidence of increasing communist subversion from outside the country against thailand. ably in the theastern part of the country. i ed the anncement by a clandestine radio of the establishment of a thai independence movement which urges the overthrow of the government of thailand and endorsement of the movement by radio peiping and radio ha. the council also ed the statement of the communist chinese foreign minister that thailand would be the next target and that there might be a guerrilla war going on in thailand before the year is out. the council members expressed their determination to do whatever is necessary to assist their ally to meet this threat. in our view this is a hopeful sign that the problems to which we alluded in our statement are being recognized at the highest levels. under unanimous consent. i insert in remarks the full text of the statement issued on may 2 by 20 members of congress and the editorial of the washington evening star on may 11 commenting on the particular need for concern over thailand:
. once again it is our sad duty to observe captive nations week. this is the sixth annual observance and it provides us with an opportunity to renew our commitment to the freedom of the brave peoples who have been thrust. against their will. behind a high wall of oppression. to the east germans. poles. latvians. lithuanians. estonians. hungarians. czechs. rumanians. and bulgarians. we offer our firm belief in their desire for freedom and our deep concern at their continued enslavement. while we take this week each year to focus on this problem. we should  forget that day after day throughout the year the voice of america and radio free europe are working to right the imbalance of information about the free world. when we commit ourselves to the freedom of the people of the captive nations. we serve the cause of freedom all over the world. as a nation which threw off the bonds of oppression in our own history. we k that the struggle for liberty and selfdetermination is  easy.  is it swift. the distance that must be traveled can only heighten our determination to serve the cause of liberty and freedom for all peoples. i join with the relatives and friends of the people of the captive nations in marking this week and in renewing our dedication to the goal of freedom.
s message to the chief executives of the other american republics at punta del este. is his willingness to examine some of our traditional ions about trade and aid. this greater openmindedness to change augurs well for the fourth quarter century. it would  be difficult to recite in great detail that the problems that remain to be tackled in latin america are the techogy gap. the instability of world agricultural markets. the geographical problems of transportation and communication that inhibit development. our own communications revolution has made the people of the united states far more aware of the needs and opportunities in the hemisphere. but our marking of pan american day is less a recitation of problems than a tribute to one of our most durable alliances and to the warmth and cultural richness of the neighbors who have made it possible.
. it was 25 years ago this month that joseph mccaffrey began his career as a press. radio and television correspondent on capitol hill. and i stand today to join my many colleagues in expressing my deepest thanks for fulfilling so well the vital role and responsibility of bringing the news of the u.s. congress to the american public. for a quarter of a century he has reported the complexities and drama of the legislative process with a uniquely perceptive understanding of its intricacies. and an interpretation which combines clarity and a tothepoint style with unfailing truth and accuracy. his objective and impartial coverage of the news has won him a large and appreciative audience. and the respect and friendship of many. many members of congress. it is a critical and invaluable service he has provided to the nation. to a viable. enduring democratic process. and to the entire field of news reporting. we thank him for his dedication. his skill. and his understanding of the problems and the hopes of the members of the congress of the united states. we thank him and respect him for 25 years of this service. he is truly a credit to the news media. he is a great man. he is a good friend. it is indeed a pleasure and a privilege to salute him today. and extend my highest regards and best wishes for continued success to joe mccaffrey. the "voice of congress." it is the greatest pleasure and ho to pay fond tribute to joe mccaffrey. my close friend.
if the senator from california does  object it was he who. at the invitation of president truman and secretary byrnes. served as adviser at the first council of foreign ministers meeting held in london in 1945. upon returning from this meeting secretary byrnes. in his radio report to the nation of october 5. 1945. paid public tribute to  truman to express on ember 7. 1948. his "appreciation of the splendid work you are doing in paris." it was mr. dulles who. at the invitation of secretary marshall. attended with him the moscow conference in the spring of 1947. and secretary marshall. upon hi.: return. in his radio report. said that he had "the invaluable assistance of mr. dulles. a distinguished representative of the republican party as well as a recognized specialist in foreign relations and in the processes of international negotiations and treaty making." secretary marshall also said of this evidence of bipartisanship that it was "of transcendent importance to all our people." it was mr. duiles who. when mr. acheson became secretary of state. accompanied him as adviser to the paris meeting of the council of foreign ministers held in the spring of 1949. and to whom. following that meeting. secretary acheson stated: "it would be very hard to tell you adequately how deeply grateful i am to you for the constructive contribution which you made." at this point in my remarks i ask to have printed in the record the texts of the statements and remarks from which i have just quoted.
. saturday. may 10. will mark the 81st anniversary of the proclamation of rumanias independence from the turks. rumanian independence day is an important occasion to all americans of rumanian descent. it is also a day on which we who enjoy the blessings of liberty in this great land of ours should pause to offer anew our hopes. our prayers. and our support to the proposition that the rumanians of today will. sooner or later. emulate their ancestors in throwing off the yoke of the foreign oppressor. the tragic subjugation of rumania by the soviet union remains a matter of deep and abiding concern to all americans. it is a cause of sorrow and regret to all who love liberty. let us look. therefore. to the day when rumania. in common with other russian satellite nations. will be able to throw off its oppressors. and let us pray that such a day is  far distant.
. i would have supposed that our government. following this particular inflammatory broadcast. would have considered making appropriate representations to the united arab republic. because i do  believe that the united arab republic can claim indifference or lack of kledge or more particularly lack of responsibility for this radio station within its territoryi refrained on the floor of the house from talking in the hopes that such representations had been made. that they would have been heeded. and that the radios in the near east would have been less inflammatory. but i regret to report to the house that the radio warfare has continued. on the 25th of april 1963. this same station. voice of the arab nation. broadcast in arabic to the middle east: free officers and soldiers in the jordanian army: the time has come to liberate jordan from husayn. * * * bedouin officers and soldiers: how long will some of you continue to be deceived by the falsehoods uttered by husayn. * * * bedouin soldiers you must realize that israel will  dare fire one shot on the jordanian borders after the strong arab state declared that if israel does so it will meet its fate in hours. * * * you are capable of crushing all the traitors in amman in a few hours. after that israel will  stay on one inch of our holy land. i could go on and read a number of additional ones including a broadcast on the 29th of april from cairo mena in arabic to the middle east. which pointed out that "leaflets are still being circulated in jordanian towns and within the various army units. urging them to support the revolution and to overthrow the collapsing throne of husayn." and just on may 1 the voice of the arab nation. broadcast: husayn. the 900.000 palestinian refugees on the western bank will tear you to pieces and each of them will take a piece of your rotten body and throw it in the face of israel to repay the jews for the price of treason which your grandfather abdullah received for palestine. indeed husayn you will go first and the saudi throne will follow. and in aher broadcast on may 1. 1963. this same station said in arabic: let the bullets whiz. let the guns roar and declare a raging revolution. masses of our people: voice the cries of the revolution and rush to the guns with hearts which are  afraid to die. our masses: march and take the nabulus mountains as the headquarters of your revolution. the jerusalem hills as your battlefield. brothers on the borders. in ramtha and irbid: take up your arms. heedless of the curfew or their martial law. our people want it to be a violent. popular revolution.* * * our brothers in jordan: from the voice of the arab nation. we call upon you to look to palestine whose mountains. carmel. orchards. and yellow sands are calling you. look to our palestine and surge with your revolution. husayn: you shall see our masses on the hilltops and plateaus unterrorized by your guns or the planes of the english and  afraid of the movements of the 6th fleet or the 10th fleet. we are carrying on and we are confident that your life will be a short one. as for your traitors. members of the cabinet. we have an account to settle with you. you will either resign or meet your fate shortly it will be a black fate. there are other excerpts that could be quoted from radio baghdad. from radio cairo. from radio damascus. but i shall  presume on the time of the house to do so.
it is my understanding that there was attempt. as i understand the facts. either to inform the oas prior to the decision and consult with them prior to the decision. or was there any attempt to have observers accompany our forces. this in my judgment was in contravention of the oas charter. it might also have been. and in my judgment it was. a matter that was deeply resented by many of the latin american states that we acted and  that we acted promptly which i think all americans supported. but we did  take the extra time to inform the oas to request observers. does the gentleman feel that it was so impossible that a telephone could  be picked up.
 johnson. the first satellite pictures of cloud cover over the near east. taken by tiros i. were turned over to the state of israel in 1960 to supplement research of cloud seeding and general rainfall patterns. consistent with the unified johnston plan the united states assisted israel and jordan in the equitable utilization of the jordan river waters. further.  for his remarks.
. the two courageous and talented american newsmen who gave their lives under dangerous circumstances in the near east served in the highest traditions of journalism. paul schutzer. of new rochelle. n.y.. a timelife photographer. and ted yates. a television producerdirector for the national broadcasting corp.. were killed while covering the fighting on two separate fronts in the near east yesterday. mr. schutzer joined life magazine in washington in 1956 as its youngest staff photographer. his last assignment was representative of the courage and professionalism he evidenced throughout his career. mr. schutzer  only volunteered to go to israel to cover the current crisis. but insisted that he would go even if life did  send him. he was riding in one of the leading armored halftracks in an israel armored column counterattacking across the gaza strip when his vehicle was hit by an antitank weapon and burst into flames. mr. schutzer. who received numerous prizes for his work including the white house photographers grand prize. was a member of the crack life team that covered the leba crisis of 1958. he photographed the building of the berlin wall. and covered the algerian war: he made two trips to cuba in 1961 and spent 24 hours in a havana jail. and he photographed most of the countrys political ables. ted yates sustained a fatal wound on monday from gunfire in the intercontinental hotel in the jordanian sector of jerusalem. his distinguished career as a combat .orrespondent and producer of television documentaries took him into countless hazardous situations in the pursuit of a story. mr. yates was the recipient of many awards. including citations for his coverage of the crisis in the dominican republic and a recent news special on social and political unrest in guatemala. colombia. and peru. i had occasion to work with mr. yates and admired and respected his talents and commitment to his profession. my deepest sympathy is extended to mrs. bernice schutzer and her two children. dena and james. and to mr. schutzers parents. mr. and mrs. hyman schutzer of long island. as well as to mrs. yates and her family. the dedication and high professionalism of these men will be long remembered by the american people.
 of abc. ed that his network "has always approved and publicly favored the establishment of a strong and vibrant commercial educational television system. national in scope." the carnegie corp. study of public television first recommended the establishment of a profit corporation for public television and forms the basis for this legislation. both the carnegie corp. and the ford foundation. as well as other groups. have suggested various methods for the permanent financing of the system. after the initial federal grant for the first year. i believe that this first year should be a time of thoughtful study to formulate the most equitable and meaningful financial and interconnection arrangements so that the promising experiment on which we hopefully will embark today will realize its full potential.
but. even more important. it is a devastating attack on the principles of freedom and mutual understanding to which all men of good will are devoted. i was particularly disturbed by the charges levied against my colleagues. mr. reid and mr. diggs. by radio south africa. i am including these in my remarks here. and k my colleagues in the house will understand my distress and concern: [from the baltimore (md.) sun. aug. 5.
. i rise in support of h.r. 7737. a bill extending assistance for public broadcasting facilities and the corporation for public broadcasting. this bill would extend the authorization for 3 years for the matching grant program for construction of commercial educational radio and television broadcasting through the corporation for public broadcasting. authorizations of $15 million are proposed for each of the 3 years. these grants cover up to 75 percent of the cost of acquiring and installing radio and television broadcasting apparatus in furtherance of educational broadcasting. it is estimated that for every dollar granted by the federal government for public broadcasting. state. local. and private sources have expended $11. a longrange plan for financing the corporation for public broadcasting is  being developed by the administration and should. when implemented. encourage even more private support. in my view. the quality of our life as a civilized nation demands that we support fully the cpb. television has become one of our most influential means of communication and education. surely we must exploit its potential for positive instruction. for public affairs reporting in depth. for enhancement of the arts. for the widest possible dissemination of cultural events. educational television has made great strides toward this goal. and i believe that approval of the legislation before us will reaffirm the faith of the congress in its capacity to continue.
. freedom of the press is indivisible. the right to publish and the right to edit are both covered by the first amendment. and this covers both radio and tv and the print media. and i hope the contempt citation is voted against and voted down. branch of the government has the right to oversee editing by the press. either broadcast or printed. i hope that the contempt citation is defeated.
 those of us who were privileged to call jim fulton a friend have lost an individual who was remarkable. our nation has lost one of its most dedicated. able. and articulate public servants. in a sense. however. jim fulton is  lost to us because he will always be part of this house and part of our nations history. as i think of him today. i am struck first by the fact of his great zest for life. i never saw him when he was really down. he always had a hearty word. a smile. a gift for encouraging those who sometimes felt things were  all they should be. among other things. he had a sense of humor which was ever present. and equally it was a sense of humor that he played against himself. he never let his own personal problems dominate at any point his sense of being a public servant. as the gentleman in the well has so clearly pointed out. jim fulton served at the peak of his powers. he could be hing but a fulltime congressman and a fulltime national leader. as a newspaperman. as an individual concerned with the foreign affairs of this country. as one of our most eloquent spokesman for an effective space program. he made his mark on the future of this country. at all times he represented a spirit of independence. he never hesitated to speak out when he thought his party was wrong. and there was one who fought harder for his party when he thought the position and the principles were clear. there is question but what the space program and our signal accomplishments in this field were due in small measure to his faith. his conviction. his constant support and his tireless efforts both in this house and throughout the country to carry the message that this was an endeavor in which the united states must and could excel. i remember. just the other day. his telling me the pride with which he accompanied an astronaut to his home district. the delight he had in making available to all the constituents of his district an opportunity to view a new space rock. and how intimately he was involved in presenting the kind of issue that was so important to the future of our country. but doing it in a personal way. the 27th district of pennsylvania has lost a leader. our nation has lost a spokesman. but i believe that all americans are the better for the life that jim fulton led. newspapermen will remember and cherish his belief and conviction in a free press. all of us who served with him in the congress will count it a privilege to remember and to be inspired by his example. his sense of selfservice. and above all his love of his native state of pennsylvania. which was only exceeded by love of the united states of america.
. i very much hope that the 2year funding that is called for in the house version of the bill will prevail in any conference with the senate. i think the assurance of continuity of these two stations is very important from several standpoints.  the least of which involves the personnel of the stations. equally important. there are certain diplomatic implications beyond the study. this study will take 1 year. and i hope that it may conclude  only that there is merit to continuing these stations. but also that they will be placed in broadbased american council that would be analogous. perhaps. to the british council which has so effectively carried forth endeavors that facilitate open communications. i believe. therefore. that this bill should be supported. i think it only fair to say that when i was recently in poland it was very clear that radio free europe had played a very key. sensitive. and thoughtful role in reporting on the events brought on by the student riots in 1968 and. subsequently. in 1970. these stations must become independent of the u.s. government. otherwise their credibility will be open to increasing question. and furthermore. we are dealing here with a sophisticated operation that must function within parameters of sensitivity. judgment. and the dictates of the truth. what is called for is fidelitystraight news reporting. because we get from this a sensitivity to the kind of straight news that these countries do  have because of censorship. but which can be of very real benefit to the furtherance of open communications leading to higher living standards. more freedom and personal liberties in these countries.
. on the night of wednesday. august 10. i was privileged to participate in a public service radio program presented by wcbs radio news. the new york city flagship station of the columbia broadcasting system. the program presented in prime evening time for 3 hours from 8 p.m. to 11 p.m.. preempting all other station programing for that time. was completely devoted to the subject of "what can be done to reduce racial tensions." produced by the outstanding director of news and public affairs for wcbs. martin weldon. and moderated by the longtime. very capable news analyst and radio personality. lou adler. this was a public service program of the first order and a model for what can be done in community service by a radio station devoted to adapting modem and national techniques to local problems. fittingly. the program originated. at inconsiderable technical expense. from the harlem ymca gymnasium. this in itself was significant. because it went directly to the heart of a possible area of tension. yet met on ground dedicated by the young mens christian association to brotherhood. the panel participants were: william h. booth. chairman of the new york city commission on human rights. james farmer. former national director of the congress of racial equality. representative theodore r. kupferman. republican. 17th congressional district. manhattan. joseph monserrat. national director of the migration division. department of labor of puerto rico. assistant chief inspector lloyd g. sealy. coordinator on ethnic groups. new york city police department. senator basil a. paterson. 31st senatorial district. new york. livingston wingate. executive director. haryouact. i have selected from the 76page transcript some of the highlights in order to give the full flavor of discussion which involved  only the panel participants and mr. adler. but also a live. in person. audience of some 300 people. and the listening audience in the greater new york city area by telephone communication. my colleagues. i k you will  agree with all that was said during this discussion. but the facts of life in the ghetto and the reaction of the inhabitants on the scene and the observers from the surrounding area. can give a great insight to the problem. the columbia broadcasting system and more specifically its local new york city station wcbs are to be commended for making the broadcast time and the program available:
. on thursday. february 23. i had the privilege of making the washingtons birthday address at a luncheon meeting of the international radio and television society. inc.. of which i am a member. at the grand ballroom of the waldorfastoria hotel in new york city.
. as one interested in providing for more opinion by qualified commentators in the marketplace of ideas. i have urged for broadcasters full partnership with the press on a medium of communication. i have. heretofore. discussed this on the subject of editorializing. see congressional record of february 28. 1967. page 4805. recently marcus cohn. distinguished washington. d.c.. lawyer who specializes in the broadcasting field. and who at one time served with the federal communications commission staff. spoke to the new york state broadcasters association at albany. n.y. i k my colleagues will be interested in his speech. because it continues the dialog in this area in a most intelligent way: broadcasting and boox buani1967 stylz* elected public officials. who are our guests this evening. basically face much the same problems and challenges as those faced by broadcastersaccountability to their constituents. in fact. legislative experience is one of the best training grounds for the arduous and hazardous life of broadcasting. the differences are those of degree. first of all. there is the matter of the pollthat four letter word. you gentlemen. it is true. are periodically subjected to gallup and harris and local polls that tell you how you or your party are doing. the broadcasters have their polls also: the nielsen. hooper. pulse and arb. which tell them how they are doing. but there is a big difference between the two kinds of polls. your kind is taken periodically. whereas the broadcaster lives under a daily tyranny of numbers. percentages. and ratings which have the stability of mercury in a broken thermometer. every vote that you cast is publicly recorded here in albany and if one of your constituents is sufficiently curious. he can find out how you voted. in the case of broadcasting. the interested constituent listener or viewer doesnt have to make any special effort. all he has to do. as he lounges by his fireside. is to push a button and find out what his elected broadcaster is voting for. it appears right there on the television screen. every broadcaster has a continuouslyexposed public record. and unlike your constituents who vote for or against you every two years. the broadcasters constituents cast a separate vote each 30 or 60minute segment of the day. you each experience those anticipatory reelection pains. these come every two years for you. the broadcaster has it somewhat easier. he gets "reelected" every three years--when he must file his request with the f.c.c. that his license be renewed. while the elected political official ks the result within hours after the polls are closed. broadcasters sometimes wait weeks. months and even years. for the verdict. the road the broadcaster must travel in standing for his reelection is arduous and searching. he has to file a written application for re* text of an address by marcus cohn before the new york state broadcasters association at albany. new york. march 7. election. he has to recount. in writing. exactly what he has done to serve the public interest and. moreover. he must prove. with statistical tabulations. why he has in the past and will in the future operate in the public interest. you have it easier. you are  required by law to hand every voter written documentation as to how you voted on each measure while you were in office.  do you have to make a tabulation of how many times you voted with or against the party leaders. or how many times you voted "yes" or "" every broadcaster. when he files an application for renewal of his license. is required to make a survey of the needs. tastes and desires of the communities he serves and then to prove to the f.c.c. that he has. in fact. served and satisfied the needs. the tastes. the goals and the yearnings of his constituents. he must advertise the fact that his application is on file with the f.c.c.. tell the public that it may be examined in his offices and that anyone who objects to it being granted. should write the f.c.c. you. in a general way. of course. do the same thing. except that you dont have to do any of these things. and you certainly dont have to do it in writing. you dont have to do it at rigid periodical inervals. and. moreover. if you dont want to do any of them. the federal government doesnt command you to do itat the risk of taking away your license to serve. you both must be responsive to the needs of the communities that you servebut there is a vital difference between you. the communities that you serve are restricted by manmade geographical boundaries and are generally homogeneous. the broadcaster. on the other hand. serves large heterogeneous groupings of people with diverse backgrounds. interests. cultures. and even languages. a broadcaster may serve as many as 10 million people. his service is  governed by the laws of man. but by those of nature. matter what he does. he cant please all of his constituents. your profession and that of broadcasting have aher common characteristic. you are frequently condemned personally for failures of the political establishments because of the moral failure of aher elected official. the public tends to lump all the members of a political institution. such as a legislature. together in one mold. it does the same thing with broadcasters. all television stations have to answer to critics for the things that the critic doesnt like on one station. i am sure that even good music stations have to account. from time to time. for their rocknroll competitors. you have learned--as have broadcastersthat matter what you do. matter how le your motives may be. matter how devoted you are to the public you serve. there will always be loud and shrill groups---sometimes large. sometimes small. often only solosthat scream and criticize. and it is with those critics that i want to deal tonight. broadcastings critics generally fall into two institutional groupings. there are. first of all. the established and orthodox institutions of society. such as. for example. the home. the school. the church and government. the second group of critics consists of directly competitive businessesnamely. newspapers and magazines. i want to deal separately with each of these two different types of institutional critics. after gutenberg invented mobile type. it took about 200 years before books--other than the biblewere printed. it took that long to tap the vast resources of that new communications marvel. but within our life times we have witnessed the birth and the growth of radio and television. as one of the major industries and two of the most dynamic media of the nation. there have been more changes n communications in the past 50 years than have occurred in all the history of recorded time. techogy has brought us into an age of a total communications environment. throughout our 16 hours of awakened time. we shave. or eat. or dine. or work. or play or read by radio and television. and. of course. some people even insist on sleeping with their radio turned on. we have become an integral. inseparable and enmeshed part of a network of communications. broadcasting has become an established institution. it has all of the criteria by which institutions are identified. it commands interest. it enjoys status. it has prestige. it has large numbers of persons who depend upon it. society spends large quantities of its time listening to and watching it. in the baseball world they tell the story of the umpire who. whenever he was criticized for the manner in which he called a game. would retort: "some of you fellows may see them as balls and some of you may see them as strikes. but they aint hing at alluntil i call them." the critics of radio and television remind me of that umpire. it doesnt make any difference to the institutional critic whether or  the public enjoys what it sees or hears. to the institutional critic all of these programs "aint hing at all." unless and until they. the critics have evaluated them. passed judgment on them and have even. sometimes. decided whether they are good. bad or indifferent. it s coincidence that television program listings and news and features occupy prominent space in newspapers. i would hate to be the circulation or business manager of a newspaper whose editor refused to carry the logs of the local television stations and stories about television and its performers. the reason the public demands to k what is happening in the television world is that that world is intimately intertwined with and is an integral part of mans social. ecoic and political orders. if broadcasting were . as an institution. as effective as it is. if it did  command the attention that it does. and if it had  grown as rapidly as it did. i doubt whether it would have aroused so many critics. the very criticism by the other institutionsthe home. the church. the school and governmentand. of course. the printed pressis a tribute to broadcastings effectiveness. if it were  as pervasive and effective. it would  receive the amount of critical attention that it does. i believe there are several reasons why these institutions are so critical of television. first. there is the matter of personal and individual tastes. likes and dislikesa subjective problem. it simply isnt true that whats sauce for the tv goose is sauce for the tv gander. then. there is the matter of simple jealously. as the home. the church and the school see the increasing amount of time that is devoted to television--and the decreasing amount of time devoted to their institutions--they understandably bristle with anxieties and frustrations. television. in a real sense--and  in an ecoic senseis in competition with them. if for other reason than the amount of time people spend listening to radio and watching television. these institutional critics would criticize--matter what the programming of the stations might be. if the programming consisted only of plays by shakespeare and sophocles and the same number of people watched those plays who today watch peyton place. the beverly hillbillies. and the man from u.n.c.l.e.. i am sure that most of these institutional critics would continue to repeat their criticism and bemoan the fact that macbeth. hamlet. antigone and oedipus rex emphasize violence. sex. lust. homicide. suicide and fratricide. i am also convinced that there are other deep psychological reasons for some of the intensity of the criticism. we live today in the midst of a series of national and international social crises and revolutions. the home. the school. the church and the political order have  been able to solve these vexing. explosive and chaotic social and political problems. man has turned for answers from them to other institutions. broadcastings news. documentaries. and panel discussions. among other programs. have enabled him to understand more fully than he ever has before what the issue are and his role in them. he literally participates in the event. as it actually happens. he attends the white house and the govers press conferences and the political conventions. he does  have to read about the event---after it happens. he sees and hears it through his own eyes and ears. he is there when it happens. it is  screened and filtered for him. he actively participates as a full citizen in and is  alienated from his environment. e of the other institutionsbecause of their natural physical limitations--has the capacity or physical ability to penetrate. to point out. to isolate. to pinpoint and to interpret our environment in such a realistic and instantaneous manner. we may have read millions of words on civil rights. but it was  until we saw and heardlive and instantaneousthe tragedies of the problem. that we became totally aware of its scope and depth and the moral issues involved. i do  think that it was a mere coincidence that our civil rights revolution occurred during those very two decades that broadcasting had its greatest growth. in brief. all of the other institutions have lost. in varying degrees. their oracular power roles and it is a characteristic of all persons and institutions  only to struggle against the loss of power but. at the same time. to criticize any new threatening power center. there is yet aher reason why these institutional criticisms have increased in intensity. they have all had the historical role of helping man to understand himself and improving his lot on earth. radio and teelvislon mirror the social order which the institutions have created. just as the els and plays of steinbeck and shaw mirrored the society of their times. the plays. the music. the movies and the news on radio and television today are hing more  less than reflections of our culture. the thermometer of our societys state of health. the church. the school and the home may  always like the image on the television mirror. they condemn the psychedelic jargon of "turn on" and "drop out" on tv and radio. as though these media. rather than society. created these phrases. they often dont like what they see and hear. it reflects their failures. the ama complains about some of the television programs where the medical profession. its problems and standards are portrayed and the american bar association dences cbss "trials of obrien" because it failedto use its own lament-"to protect the image of a lawyer." they complain and criticize the mirror instead of examining. as they should. the reasons for and the sources of the images. they are merely finding a focal point to criticize society and its system of values. some of their vociferous denunciations remind me of the book burners of years agoand some in the more recent past. they believed that somehow or other if they burned the books they could solve the problems. they thought they could quench the revolutionary spirit of the time by extinguishing the flame. you cant burn thoughts and you dont crack television screens. that doesnt solve the problems  obliterate the thoughts which are recorded in the books and reflected on the screens. in addition to the criticism to which we are subjected by these institutions. there is. of course. also the steady stream of criticism by the printed mediain particular. the newspapers and magazines. i want to make it perfectly clear that i do  think that any venal instinct drives publishers to encourage this criticism. rather. i think they are impelled by the simple fact that they k that radio and television occupy the largest single amount of time that the american people devote to any one activityoutside of sleeping. working and going to school. it is. in a real sense. a recognition of the amount of time spent by. and the intense interest of the readers in. what the broadcasting media are saying. when radio and television were in their infancyin the 20s and early 30s for radio and the late 40s and early 50s for televisionlarge numbers of newspapers simply iged them. it was only when they became allpervasive and commercially competitive that newspapers recognized their potency. today television criticismsome of which is profound. perceptive and highly professional--and television news occupy large portions of every daily newspaper. the public wants this information because broadcasting is such an integral part of its life. whatever happens in or about television is news. as a matter of fact. a newspaper publisher is reminded daily of yet aher pull of television. i k of tv news reporter who became a newspaper reporter or columnist. but you and i k of scores of newspaper reporters and columnists who left their newspapers for the bright lights of broadway. but of television. the newspaper has historically been the critic of all the other mediaradio. television. the theatre. the movies. the ballet. the symphony. the opera and books. but the one medium for which we have critic is the newspaper. i k of newspaper which criticizes competitive newspapers or even other newspapers which are  competitors. they feel competent to comment on. criticize and analyze the writing of television plays. their props. the lighting. the actors makeup and the length and frequency of the commercials. but i k of newspaper or magazineoutside of such limited circulation and excellent magazines as. for example. columbia journalism quarterly. saturday review and the essays of the late a. j. liebling in the new yorkerwhich regularly evaluates and criticizes the treatment of news in newspapers. the writing which appears in newspapers. the layout of its pages. the character of the typography. the "personal" columns in the classified section or the ratio of advertising to news. bill rivers. douglass cater and other thoughtful newspaper men have pointed out that journalism. as the fourth estate of government. rightfully believes that its criticism of the other three estates makes them work more effectively for the public interest. and they have also pointed out that selfcriticism will have the same effect. the mere fact that newspapers are  technically licensed by the federal governmentthough they do enjoy large subsidies through secondclass mailing privilegesshould  make them immune to criticism. certainly. the first amendment does  guarantee such immunity. newspapers operate in an open society and if they are to undertake the task of criticizing all other mediaas they do and should continue to doi see reason why responsible and thoughtful publishers should  review. comment on and criticize magazines and other newspapers. the broadcasting industry has been loathe to criticize and rarely criticizes any other media. although charles colllngwood tried to do it several years ago. if radio and television stations were to regularly engage in criticaland this does  mean only that criticism which condemn--analyses of newspapers and magazines. as well as other stations programming. they would be performing a great public service. there is reason why newspapers should be immune to responsible criticism. if they do. in fact. occupy a crucial role in the formulation of public opinion and if they are. as i believe they are. an integral part of our institutionalized culture. they. just as all other institutions. whether it be government. school. church or family. should be talked about. their content and makeup should be discussed. their role and their function debated. and lastly. if we are to place on the shoulders of radio and television some of the responsibility for some of the present social and moral problems which beset man. i k of reason why we should  examine. at the same time. the role played by all of the media in the creation and reflection of those problems. one of the favorite current stories among analysts is the one about the patient who complained: "doctor. what kind of a complex is one suffering from if he believes he is being persecutedand its true." we in the broadcasting media shouldnt suffer a persecution complex. for we are. indeed. being persecuted by all of the institutionsand the f.c.c. as well. i think we are oversensitive to institutional criticism. i have a feeling that because of our youthfulness--after all. radio is only in middle age and television is barely out of adolescencewe feel unduly uncomfortable in the face of the criticisms. every institutionlike every elected political officialshould be permitted to have an age of inence in which it flounders and attempts to make adjustments to the times. to the experience and criticism of its seniors. and to the common sense and the wisdom of age. but the medium is rapidly passing its age of inence and the time is comingif it hasnt already comewhen broadcasting must take a more positive role among the other institutions. i think the time has come to talk back to and be critical of our critics. i think the time has come for us to tell the critics that it is they. and  we. who have created the social. ecoic and political orders which we mirror. at the same time. we should polish up the mirror so that society will see and hear things that it would  otherwise k about. our television screen should be the lens of a miscroscope and the rays of a lighthouse beacon. it is  sufficient that we mechanically record and photograph that which we see. we should paint the scene ourselves and just as the artist does. we should add our own interpretation and compassionate understanding. our screens should reveal thoughts which have never been thought before and seek new truths by examining and exploring events which heretofore have been iged. but. on the other hand. we and our critics must bear in mind that one of the media is so adaptable that it can communicate or help solve and explain everything. to put it in its simplest termsone can or should be expected to be able to whistle the biial theorem. because the public spends so much time with us. we have an affirmative obligation to speak out and constructively criticize and comment on all social institutions including the competitive media. we have made a good beginning by expressing ourselves. from time to time on civic and political matters. more and more stations are taking positions on political matters and candidates--and that is all to the good. but that is only the beginning. we have the responsibility to voice constructive criticism of all social institutions. our age of inence is evolving into an age of maturity and our maturity should advance into statesmanship. statesmanship requires that we carefully and sensitively listen to what all of our critics have to say but never defensively accommodate ourselves to those criticisms which merely at a particular moment. happen to be the most vociferous or persistent. we owe society the obligation. as we examine the other institutions. also to examine ourselves and the role that we play amongst these institutions. true statesmanship requires that we add something to that which we mirror. we. just as all other institutions. should provide. within our own structure. the opportunity for the birth of those irritating creative voices whichlike the irritants in the oyster which produce the pearlsmay be aning at the time. but carry with them the seeds of potential greatness and give our institution a continuous flow of growth. brilliance and excellence. we didnt and dont create societys problems and we cant solve them. what we can do is to continue to mirror accurately the social. ecoic and political orders in which we operatewith all of their stresses. strains and sometimes revolutionary spiritsand then offer constructive criticism of what we find. when we do this. we discharge our fundamental moral and ethical obligation: to participate fully and vibrantly. as a mature and emancipated medium. in the democratic market place of ideas.
. wins. a fine allnews station in my district. is performing a public service in its broadcast of the series of original radio dramas entitled "the great ones." a history of 10 american negroes who contributed in large measure to the development of the united states. under the managership of charles payne. wins. one of the group w stations. has pioneered in news. public events. and service to the community. and this recognition of important negro history adds one more chapter to this fine record. i am pleased to bring the ice as to the programs to the attention of my colleagues. as follows:
from what authority is this disastrous information coming. other than the conversation you had with your young friend who is an assistant district attorney. if this resolution did  pass tonight. the whole government of the united staes would stop. what happens to the ships at sea. do they turn off their diesels and sit there and wait for the radio to give them ice that the senate has passed this resolution. this is the silliest hogwash i have ever heard. it is being told tonight that the state department can proceed. is that what is being said here.
 . i think if the senator from new jersey studies the record. i did  say that there could never be a single article. i seid an easier case would be one which involved a series of articles disclosing the names of a series of agents. in other words. i will refer the senator from new jersey again to the definitions in which it states: the term pattern of activities requires a series of acts with a common purpose or objective. let us take a single situation. where a reporter engaged in a series of acts such as following a suspected agent to work. seeking his telephone number. making a whole series of background checks on him. checking his prior activities in the united states. where he took his training. and so forth. if one went through an elaborate process like that. and. indeed. knew that the person involved was an agent. then disclosing it as a part of this series of acts would violate the provisions of this bill.
well. you heard the proposal of the senator from washington. le suggested we added to the definition of "pattern of activities" words tlal would be acceptable to him. i do  think anyone looking at this act would say that that goes tochanges the very heart of either my amendment or the committee bill that is on the floor here this aftern. i think one other point we should make is there are many of ts who are deeply disturbed over the currently existing situation with regard to the disclosure of the names of our agents. one of the many virtues in voting for the chafee amendment is that with the adoption of the chafee amendment i am confident that the act will pass here. we then would be confident of swiftly having a bill. and thus the protection would be afforded rather quickly for our agents. i k that early in the day the distinguished senator from delaware introduced a letter from the chairman of the intelligence committee in the house in which he said: as far as i am able to influence the deci. sion. the house would seek a conference regardless of the outcome. i believe that was followed up by  only would they seek a conference but also i think the senator from delaware repeated a telephone conversalion in which he said that the chairman of the house intelligence coinmittee would swiftly seek a conference. that may be. that is splendid. but as the junior senator from indiana ks so well. having been experienced in the house. these things just do  happen that quickly. they do  get conferences that fast. you may have a conference. you may have it swiftly if the vacations can coincide and the times can be worked out. but in addition to that i have sat on conferences. and undoubtedly you have sat on conferences. that never came to a conclusion. hing happened. we had an ecoic development administration conference with the house in which neither side gave. and we never had a bill. so one of the virtues in voting for the chafee amendment is we k we will have a bill.
. a reliable and extensive communications network is essential for the continued prosperity of the united states. we are fortunate to have the best telephone service in the world. the developer of that systemthe american telephone & telegraph corp.-has helped us to attain high quality telephone service which has been affordable for virtually all americans. while at&t was a regulated mooly. we came to take this service for granted. rapid techogical developments and a series of regulatory and court decisions in recent years have brought an end to the at&t mooly and ushered in a new era of competition in the telecommunications marketplace. more has been eliminated than the corporate mooly over telephone service: we have also lost the subsidy mechanism by which long distance telephone revenues had been used to keep local service rates low. in the resulting confusion over our nations telephone pricing structure. many doubts have understandably been expressed about the wisdom of making this transition from mooly to competitive environment. the transition is  an accomplished fact. at&t and other companies will compete for long distince telephone business and continue to develop a variety of new oommuitatala techogies. while this will benefit consumers. the effect of recent devel* opments on local phone service re mains unclear. the settlement leading to the divestiture of at&t stripped local phone companies of many of their profitmaking assets. other faotors. such as inflation and a drive by telephone companies to modernize equipment. could also lead to pressure to increase local rates. in addition. higher long distance revenues will longer be available to offset the fixed coat. which local companies incur in providing access to the telephone net work for residential and business customers. the challenge is to make the transition from a mooly to a compettelve system without jeopardizing the availability of affordable and reliable phone service. meeting this challenge will be extremely difficult for two reasons. first. it will require maintaining a delicate balance between competition. which can thrive best when serv ices are priced at their true costs. and universal service. which could be threatened if truecost pricing results in massive rate increases. second. we are operating in new and unfamiliar territory. proceeding down a comp tex public policy path which is fraught with uncertainty. assumptions we make today could be easily called into question tomorrow as the implications of changes in the telecommunications field continue to be expanded. as we strive to attain this balance between competition anl universal service. it i essential that the telephonea basic necessity for most americansbe kept within easy ecoic reach. after analyzing the complex questions surrounding this issue. the federal communications commission in february of 1983 released its socalled access charge order. the order would have accomplished the moolytocompetition transition through adoption of a "costbased" pricing structure. assigning to phone users a larger share of the fixed costs which phone companies incur in providing network interconnection. the fccs order was based upon the assumption that decreases in longdistance rates would sufficiently offset the access charges to prevent burdensome local rate increases. in july of this year. i joined with 80 other senators in expressing grave misgivings about the size and timing of the access charges prescribed by the fcc. in cosponsoring 8. 1660. i sought to underscore my concern that the end user charges then scheduled to be imposed on january 1. combined with significant telephone rate increases attributable to other factors. could seriously jeopardize the availability of universal service. 8. 1660 correctly set. forth as national policy that the fcc should strive to insure the universal availability of basic telephone service at reasonable rates. jrnary 26. 1984 a plan which abruptly shifts all local phone service costs onto consumers could clearly threaten universal service. and must be rejected. however. a plan which permanently assigns all local service costs to longdistance carriers could also harm consumers if the resulting high rates lead large longdistance users to set up their own communications systems. bypassing t he phone network and eroding the rate base. last week. i joined in urging the fcc to reassess its decision to impose monthly end user charges of $2 for residential and $6 for singleline business customers. beginning april 3. i believe strongly that these access charges should  be imposed without a more thorough analysis of how changes in the telephone pricing structure will affect american consumers. at the same time. we must work to insure that any plan for the reallocation of phone service costs contains adequate protections for lowincome phone users to insure that they are  denied access to quality service. on january 19. the fcc annced a tentative decision to delay the imposition of end user charges on residential and singleline business customers until 1985. and to establish a limit of $4 per month on any end user fee imposed during a transition period stretching to 1990. the fccs previous order would have permitted the imposition of a $5 fee by 1987. the commission intends to devote further study to the whole question of a userbased cost allocation plan and its potential effect upon universal service. this decision. which was made final yesterday. constitutes a more reasonable approach to phone pricing policy than the commission had origthally proposed. the fcc has clearly begun to heed the message which underlies s. 1660the transition to a competitive telephone pricing system should  be accomplished abruptly. or at the expense of universal service. the commission remains convinced that bypass of the local network. which could result without some userbased distribution of costs. might ultimately drive large volume users of long distance service off the local phone network. we need to k more about the prospects for such instances of bypass. as well as its longtern ramifications for erosion of the local telephone rate base. the fcc intends to compile additional data about the bypass threat. and i believe it should weigh this information carefully when determining how costs can be most equitably distributed. i am also extremely interested in reviewing the study which the congressional budget office is soon to release on this subject. in amending its previous access charge order. the commissican has aekledged that the massive restrucluring of our wations telecommunications system has complex policy implications. the fcc  appears to be proceeding with caution. i believe congress should do likewise. if we press forward with legislation at this time. the result could be the adoption of a telecommunications policy which does  adequately take into account the possible longterm harm to consumers from steps which in the short term are intended t be beneficial. what will .e the impact of divestiture and othr factors u local phone rates. can a portion of fixed plant costs incurred by local phone companies be assigned to phone users without jeopardizing universal service. do sufficient protections exist for the provision of service to needy americans. would the continued long distance revenue subsidy of local rates result in bypass of the local network by large users. would such bypass be significant egh to bring about drastic local rate increases. as an independent regulatory agency. the federal communications commission is best equipped to examine these questions and to respond to developments in the telecommunications arena which will affect telephone rates. since the fcc indeed intends to postpone implementation of its access charge order and explore the situation further. i believe we should set aside consideration of 8. 1660. this will enable congress to provide guidance to the fcc in a more carefully considered way. without preempting the commissions ability to respond to issues which have yet to be fully addressed. some have suggested that the senate should proceed with consideration of 8. 1660 because the fcc. they argue. having adjusted its position on this issue several times. can be relied upon to act responsibly to protect the interests of telephone users. i do  believe congress should abandon its own responsibility to insure an equitable phone pricing system. however. we must insure that our legislative actions are guided  by a mistrust of the fcc but by a determination to best serve the interests of telephone users. at this time. i believe those interests can best be served by allowing the commission to continue to exercise jurisdiction over telecommunication pricing structures. it should be ed that each time the fcc has changed its position in this matter. it has come closer to embracing the principle embodied in s. 1660. congress should continue to stress the principle that. in considering plans for the assignment of fixed local service costs. the longterm preservation of universal service must receive the highest priority. we must carefully monitor the fccs future actions in this area which is so vital to millions of americans. we should remain fully prepared to challenge the fcc vigorously and to pursue telecommunications policy legislation if the commission is unresponsive to the concerns of congress and consumers. leadership entails an undbrstanding of when  to act as welt as when to press ahead. the circumstances which once seemed to compel passage of s. 1660 are longer the same. i believe the senate should recognizethis and exhibit true leadership by agreeing to set the measure aside.
. let me first make it abundantly clear that i am unalterably opposed to the practice of any person secretly taping his or her telephone or personal conversations without the consent and approval of the other party. the recent incident where  of the judiciary committee. senator thurmond. the justice department raises serious questions about the effect of such restrictions on legitimate law enforcement operations. this may or may  be true. but we owe it to ourselves to examine these issues carefully. if ever there were a case where the thorough consideration of legislation is essential. this is it. before we rush to pass legislation that may well create more problems than it. solves. let us take the time and do the job right. rather than acting today. let us give the judiciary committee an opportunity to hold hearings and to draft a bill that addresses the problem on the basis of full iniormation. taking into account the legal ramifications that exist. for these reasons. i will vote " on the metzenbaum amendment. however. i want to serve ice that i do  take this matter lightly. i believe prudence requires that we give the judiciary committee an opportunity to hold hearings and vote out approp(iate legislation. at the same time. i do  want this matter forgotten. if this amendment is defeated and the judiciary committee then falls to come forward with its own bill during the course of this session. then it would be my intention to vote for a future amendment if it appears that is the only way to secure action. with those thoughts in mind. i would urge my colleagues to vote " on this amendment to give the judiciary committee time to do its job. but i also urge the committee to schedule early hearings and to report legislation to outlaw the surreptitious taping of telephone and private conversations as quickly as possible.
. i am pleased to join with senator goldwater as a cosponsor of s. 2436. legislation to authorize appropriations for the corporation for public broadcasting. americas independent commercial broadcasting system is a valuable national institution providing educational and cultural enrichment for a growing audience. the corporation for public broadcasting is delivering essential operating support and program services for the nations .300 public television stations. this legislation will help to assure the continuation of that support. the high quality of programing provided by public television has resulted in a doubling of its audience in the past decade. the distinguished caliber of educational and childrens programs offered on public television remains its most important contribution. accounting for 60 percent of all programing. children in 32 million households  view public television on a regular basis. since commercial television offers limited enrichment for our nations young people. it is important for us to continue to support the outstanding programing offered on public broadcast stations. public television continues to play an important role in classroom instruction. helping to supplement formal study in reading. mathematics. and science for 10 million students each week. public television has also provided worthwhile programing dealing with teenage alcohol and drug abuse. federal support accounts for 26 percent of the funding for public television in the united states. through the advanceauthorization process. public broadcasting stations are able to conduct careful planning of their activities and to develop programing in a stable environment. funds for the corporation for public broadcasting are currently authorized through fiscal year 1986 at the level of $162 million. s. 2436 would authorize appropriations of $238 million beginningjn fiscal year 1987. this legislation will strengthen the commitment of congress to assuring the availability of quality educational and cultural television programing. i hope my colleagues will join in supporting its passage.* -
. i am residential customers. lifeline rates pleased to join my distinguished col- would include a discount installation league. senator heinz. in sponsoring charge and a discount basic service the lifeline telephone service act of charge. the basic charge is intended 1985. this act assures universal avail- to include a limited number of calls in ability and affordability of telephone the local exchange area. with an addiservice: a goal the united states has tional charge per call for extra calls. held since the passage of the federal the bill directs participating state communications act of 1934. - regulatory commissions to establish our commitment to universal service the rates and eligibility criteria in achas been well achieved. in my home cordance with local requirements for state of rhode island. for example. lifeline service. state commissions are over 95 percent of all households have directed to pay particular attention to telephone service. however. the forces those most in need of assistance: the of techogical change. divestiture. elderly. the poor. the handicapped. and deregulation in the telecommuni- and the unemployed. cations industry threaten what every all qualified telephone companies american takes for granted: affordable that provide lifeline telephone service and universally available telephone are eligible for 50 percent funding service. according to the consumer federation of america. local phone service the cost of the service. using an existrates have increased 19 percent since ing phone subsidy mechanism. the the court ordered breakup of at&t. cost. approximated at $400 million. installation charges have increased 26 could be met through a small surpercent. considerable speculation charge on interstate longdistance teleexists concerning the future accelera- phone service. all interexchange carrition of phone rates. some predict that ers will be assessed equally based on phone rates may double or triple by interstate telephone toll revenues. the end of the decade. what is clear. many consumers will benefit from however. is that rate increases will the increased competition caused by cause a reduction in the number of divestiture. we must also recognize persons able to afford a telephone. we that some subscribers will be adversely * are facing the prospect of the erosion affected by the changes in the strucof universal service. especially for the ture of the telecommunications induspoor. the elderly. and the handi- try. while longdistance toll rates will capped. for whom telephone service is be declining. local monthly charges longer a luxury but a necessity. will increase. for example. residential the consumer federation of amer- customers will begin paying a $1 per ica. in its report entitled "divestiture: month local subscriber line charge on one year later." estimates that 1.2 june 1. 1985. these local rate inmillion lowincome people will be with- creases may create hardships for lowout phone. service by mid1985 unless income individuals. the lifeline telelocal rates are reduced. according to a phone services act establishes a mechsurvey by the american association of anism enabling states to respond in retired persons. 20 percent of older the event that hardships result from americans have had to curtail their rising local phone service rates. a simiuse of the telephone due to higher lar mechanism. the universal service costs. for elderly persons with in- fund. already exists to provide assistcomes below $8.000. the rate is 35 per- ance to small companies with unusualcent. the findings -of these surveys ly high costs. point to the increasing need for a life- in todays society. access to a teleline telephone service. phone is as -much a necessity as food. for senior citizens. the ecoically- shelter. clothing. and medical care. esdisadvantaged. and the handicapped. calating rates may place telephone telephone service can provide inde- service out of the reach of millions of pendence. security. and a needed social lowincome residential customers. let outlet. depriving these individuals of us  deprive the elderly. the handitelephone service will isolate them capped. the poor. and the unemployed from family. friends. doctors. commu-- of this vital link to the outside world. its time for congress to guarantee that all americans have access to universal telephone service. i urge my colleagues to join in supporting this important measure.e by mr. gorton:
. i ask unanimous consent that the committee on rules and administration be authorized to meet during the session of the senate on wednesday. december 4. 1985. in order to mark up senate resolution 204. authorizing supplemental expenditures for the select committee on indian affairs. also scheduled is the selection of a vendor to provide a new telephone system for the senate.
. a reliable and extensive communications network is essential for the continued prosperity of the united states. we are fortunate to have the best telephone service in the world. the developer of that systemthe american telephone & telegraph corp.-has helped us to attain high quality telephone service which has been affordable for virtually all americans. while at&t was a regulated mooly. we came to take this service for granted. rapid techogical developments and a series of regulatory and court decisions in recent years have brought an end to the at&t mooly and ushered in a new era of competition in the telecommunications marketplace. more has been eliminated than the corporate mooly over telephone service: we have also lost the subsidy mechanism by which long distance telephone revenues had been used to keep local service rates low. in the resulting confusion over our nations telephone pricing structure. many doubts have understandably been expressed about the wisdom of making this transition from mooly to competitive environment. the transition is  an accomplished fact. at&t and other companies will compete for long distince telephone business and continue to develop a variety of new oommuitatala techogies. while this will benefit consumers. the effect of recent devel* opments on local phone service re mains unclear. the settlement leading to the divestiture of at&t stripped local phone companies of many of their profitmaking assets. other faotors. such as inflation and a drive by telephone companies to modernize equipment. could also lead to pressure to increase local rates. in addition. higher long distance revenues will longer be available to offset the fixed coat. which local companies incur in providing access to the telephone net work for residential and business customers. the challenge is to make the transition from a mooly to a compettelve system without jeopardizing the availability of affordable and reliable phone service. meeting this challenge will be extremely difficult for two reasons. first. it will require maintaining a delicate balance between competition. which can thrive best when serv ices are priced at their true costs. and universal service. which could be threatened if truecost pricing results in massive rate increases. second. we are operating in new and unfamiliar territory. proceeding down a comp tex public policy path which is fraught with uncertainty. assumptions we make today could be easily called into question tomorrow as the implications of changes in the telecommunications field continue to be expanded. as we strive to attain this balance between competition anl universal service. it i essential that the telephonea basic necessity for most americansbe kept within easy ecoic reach. after analyzing the complex questions surrounding this issue. the federal communications commission in february of 1983 released its socalled access charge order. the order would have accomplished the moolytocompetition transition through adoption of a "costbased" pricing structure. assigning to phone users a larger share of the fixed costs which phone companies incur in providing network interconnection. the fccs order was based upon the assumption that decreases in longdistance rates would sufficiently offset the access charges to prevent burdensome local rate increases. in july of this year. i joined with 80 other senators in expressing grave misgivings about the size and timing of the access charges prescribed by the fcc. in cosponsoring 8. 1660. i sought to underscore my concern that the end user charges then scheduled to be imposed on january 1. combined with significant telephone rate increases attributable to other factors. could seriously jeopardize the availability of universal service. 8. 1660 correctly set. forth as national policy that the fcc should strive to insure the universal availability of basic telephone service at reasonable rates. jrnary 26. 1984 a plan which abruptly shifts all local phone service costs onto consumers could clearly threaten universal service. and must be rejected. however. a plan which permanently assigns all local service costs to longdistance carriers could also harm consumers if the resulting high rates lead large longdistance users to set up their own communications systems. bypassing t he phone network and eroding the rate base. last week. i joined in urging the fcc to reassess its decision to impose monthly end user charges of $2 for residential and $6 for singleline business customers. beginning april 3. i believe strongly that these access charges should  be imposed without a more thorough analysis of how changes in the telephone pricing structure will affect american consumers. at the same time. we must work to insure that any plan for the reallocation of phone service costs contains adequate protections for lowincome phone users to insure that they are  denied access to quality service. on january 19. the fcc annced a tentative decision to delay the imposition of end user charges on residential and singleline business customers until 1985. and to establish a limit of $4 per month on any end user fee imposed during a transition period stretching to 1990. the fccs previous order would have permitted the imposition of a $5 fee by 1987. the commission intends to devote further study to the whole question of a userbased cost allocation plan and its potential effect upon universal service. this decision. which was made final yesterday. constitutes a more reasonable approach to phone pricing policy than the commission had origthally proposed. the fcc has clearly begun to heed the message which underlies s. 1660the transition to a competitive telephone pricing system should  be accomplished abruptly. or at the expense of universal service. the commission remains convinced that bypass of the local network. which could result without some userbased distribution of costs. might ultimately drive large volume users of long distance service off the local phone network. we need to k more about the prospects for such instances of bypass. as well as its longtern ramifications for erosion of the local telephone rate base. the fcc intends to compile additional data about the bypass threat. and i believe it should weigh this information carefully when determining how costs can be most equitably distributed. i am also extremely interested in reviewing the study which the congressional budget office is soon to release on this subject. in amending its previous access charge order. the commissican has aekledged that the massive restrucluring of our wations telecommunications system has complex policy implications. the fcc  appears to be proceeding with caution. i believe congress should do likewise. if we press forward with legislation at this time. the result could be the adoption of a telecommunications policy which does  adequately take into account the possible longterm harm to consumers from steps which in the short term are intended t be beneficial. what will .e the impact of divestiture and othr factors u local phone rates. can a portion of fixed plant costs incurred by local phone companies be assigned to phone users without jeopardizing universal service. do sufficient protections exist for the provision of service to needy americans. would the continued long distance revenue subsidy of local rates result in bypass of the local network by large users. would such bypass be significant egh to bring about drastic local rate increases. as an independent regulatory agency. the federal communications commission is best equipped to examine these questions and to respond to developments in the telecommunications arena which will affect telephone rates. since the fcc indeed intends to postpone implementation of its access charge order and explore the situation further. i believe we should set aside consideration of 8. 1660. this will enable congress to provide guidance to the fcc in a more carefully considered way. without preempting the commissions ability to respond to issues which have yet to be fully addressed. some have suggested that the senate should proceed with consideration of 8. 1660 because the fcc. they argue. having adjusted its position on this issue several times. can be relied upon to act responsibly to protect the interests of telephone users. i do  believe congress should abandon its own responsibility to insure an equitable phone pricing system. however. we must insure that our legislative actions are guided  by a mistrust of the fcc but by a determination to best serve the interests of telephone users. at this time. i believe those interests can best be served by allowing the commission to continue to exercise jurisdiction over telecommunication pricing structures. it should be ed that each time the fcc has changed its position in this matter. it has come closer to embracing the principle embodied in s. 1660. congress should continue to stress the principle that. in considering plans for the assignment of fixed local service costs. the longterm preservation of universal service must receive the highest priority. we must carefully monitor the fccs future actions in this area which is so vital to millions of americans. we should remain fully prepared to challenge the fcc vigorously and to pursue telecommunications policy legislation if the commission is unresponsive to the concerns of congress and consumers. leadership entails an undbrstanding of when  to act as welt as when to press ahead. the circumstances which once seemed to compel passage of s. 1660 are longer the same. i believe the senate should recognizethis and exhibit true leadership by agreeing to set the measure aside.
. let me first make it abundantly clear that i am unalterably opposed to the practice of any person secretly taping his or her telephone or personal conversations without the consent and approval of the other party. the recent incident where  of the judiciary committee. senator thurmond. the justice department raises serious questions about the effect of such restrictions on legitimate law enforcement operations. this may or may  be true. but we owe it to ourselves to examine these issues carefully. if ever there were a case where the thorough consideration of legislation is essential. this is it. before we rush to pass legislation that may well create more problems than it. solves. let us take the time and do the job right. rather than acting today. let us give the judiciary committee an opportunity to hold hearings and to draft a bill that addresses the problem on the basis of full iniormation. taking into account the legal ramifications that exist. for these reasons. i will vote " on the metzenbaum amendment. however. i want to serve ice that i do  take this matter lightly. i believe prudence requires that we give the judiciary committee an opportunity to hold hearings and vote out approp(iate legislation. at the same time. i do  want this matter forgotten. if this amendment is defeated and the judiciary committee then falls to come forward with its own bill during the course of this session. then it would be my intention to vote for a future amendment if it appears that is the only way to secure action. with those thoughts in mind. i would urge my colleagues to vote " on this amendment to give the judiciary committee time to do its job. but i also urge the committee to schedule early hearings and to report legislation to outlaw the surreptitious taping of telephone and private conversations as quickly as possible.
. i am pleased to join with senator goldwater as a cosponsor of s. 2436. legislation to authorize appropriations for the corporation for public broadcasting. americas independent commercial broadcasting system is a valuable national institution providing educational and cultural enrichment for a growing audience. the corporation for public broadcasting is delivering essential operating support and program services for the nations .300 public television stations. this legislation will help to assure the continuation of that support. the high quality of programing provided by public television has resulted in a doubling of its audience in the past decade. the distinguished caliber of educational and childrens programs offered on public television remains its most important contribution. accounting for 60 percent of all programing. children in 32 million households  view public television on a regular basis. since commercial television offers limited enrichment for our nations young people. it is important for us to continue to support the outstanding programing offered on public broadcast stations. public television continues to play an important role in classroom instruction. helping to supplement formal study in reading. mathematics. and science for 10 million students each week. public television has also provided worthwhile programing dealing with teenage alcohol and drug abuse. federal support accounts for 26 percent of the funding for public television in the united states. through the advanceauthorization process. public broadcasting stations are able to conduct careful planning of their activities and to develop programing in a stable environment. funds for the corporation for public broadcasting are currently authorized through fiscal year 1986 at the level of $162 million. s. 2436 would authorize appropriations of $238 million beginningjn fiscal year 1987. this legislation will strengthen the commitment of congress to assuring the availability of quality educational and cultural television programing. i hope my colleagues will join in supporting its passage.* -
. i am residential customers. lifeline rates pleased to join my distinguished col- would include a discount installation league. senator heinz. in sponsoring charge and a discount basic service the lifeline telephone service act of charge. the basic charge is intended 1985. this act assures universal avail- to include a limited number of calls in ability and affordability of telephone the local exchange area. with an addiservice: a goal the united states has tional charge per call for extra calls. held since the passage of the federal the bill directs participating state communications act of 1934. - regulatory commissions to establish our commitment to universal service the rates and eligibility criteria in achas been well achieved. in my home cordance with local requirements for state of rhode island. for example. lifeline service. state commissions are over 95 percent of all households have directed to pay particular attention to telephone service. however. the forces those most in need of assistance: the of techogical change. divestiture. elderly. the poor. the handicapped. and deregulation in the telecommuni- and the unemployed. cations industry threaten what every all qualified telephone companies american takes for granted: affordable that provide lifeline telephone service and universally available telephone are eligible for 50 percent funding service. according to the consumer federation of america. local phone service the cost of the service. using an existrates have increased 19 percent since ing phone subsidy mechanism. the the court ordered breakup of at&t. cost. approximated at $400 million. installation charges have increased 26 could be met through a small surpercent. considerable speculation charge on interstate longdistance teleexists concerning the future accelera- phone service. all interexchange carrition of phone rates. some predict that ers will be assessed equally based on phone rates may double or triple by interstate telephone toll revenues. the end of the decade. what is clear. many consumers will benefit from however. is that rate increases will the increased competition caused by cause a reduction in the number of divestiture. we must also recognize persons able to afford a telephone. we that some subscribers will be adversely * are facing the prospect of the erosion affected by the changes in the strucof universal service. especially for the ture of the telecommunications induspoor. the elderly. and the handi- try. while longdistance toll rates will capped. for whom telephone service is be declining. local monthly charges longer a luxury but a necessity. will increase. for example. residential the consumer federation of amer- customers will begin paying a $1 per ica. in its report entitled "divestiture: month local subscriber line charge on one year later." estimates that 1.2 june 1. 1985. these local rate inmillion lowincome people will be with- creases may create hardships for lowout phone. service by mid1985 unless income individuals. the lifeline telelocal rates are reduced. according to a phone services act establishes a mechsurvey by the american association of anism enabling states to respond in retired persons. 20 percent of older the event that hardships result from americans have had to curtail their rising local phone service rates. a simiuse of the telephone due to higher lar mechanism. the universal service costs. for elderly persons with in- fund. already exists to provide assistcomes below $8.000. the rate is 35 per- ance to small companies with unusualcent. the findings -of these surveys ly high costs. point to the increasing need for a life- in todays society. access to a teleline telephone service. phone is as -much a necessity as food. for senior citizens. the ecoically- shelter. clothing. and medical care. esdisadvantaged. and the handicapped. calating rates may place telephone telephone service can provide inde- service out of the reach of millions of pendence. security. and a needed social lowincome residential customers. let outlet. depriving these individuals of us  deprive the elderly. the handitelephone service will isolate them capped. the poor. and the unemployed from family. friends. doctors. commu-- of this vital link to the outside world. its time for congress to guarantee that all americans have access to universal telephone service. i urge my colleagues to join in supporting this important measure.e by mr. gorton:
. i ask unanimous consent that the committee on rules and administration be authorized to meet during the session of the senate on wednesday. december 4. 1985. in order to mark up senate resolution 204. authorizing supplemental expenditures for the select committee on indian affairs. also scheduled is the selection of a vendor to provide a new telephone system for the senate.
. today i rise to bestow best wishes on a dreamer who is embarking on an extraordinary journey. on tuesday. august 4. jim dickson set sail on a transatlantic voyage. from the -bend boat basin in portsmouth. ri. aboard his 36foot tillotsonpearson sailboat named eye opener. many people have sailed across the atlantic ocean. that is  special. but jim dicksons dream is special. for jim hopes to be the first blind sailor to cross the atlantic ocean solo. dickson. 41. has been legally blind since he was 7 years old. but that has  stopped him from reaching beyond his disability. jim has spent months preparing for this journey. gathering supplies. studying charts. and familiarizing himself with the boat that will be his only companion on this transatlantic adventure. like any man of the sea. jim dickson has planned for the unexpected. the eye opener is equipped with a number of hightech devices. including a braille compass. a talking computer aughst 7. 1987. s 11.794 august 7. 1987 co1p and a radar unit that whistles whenever it detects objects in the boats path. ultimately. though. jim dickson will guide the vessel. it is his courage and inspiration that will sail the eye opener over 3.400 nautical miles to england. i commend jim dickson and with all rhode islanders wish him well on his transatlantic crossing. he is an inspiration to us all and a dreamer making adream come true.*
 reagan visits the soviet union. he would  be extended a like privilege. either a nationwide address on television or whatever might be suitable for the occasion. i personally think it would be interesting to see mr. gorbachev in action and for the american people to hear what he has to say. i think we are fixed egh in our beliefs and have egh confidence in the american people that we are  going to -be torn asunder from our moorings. i thank the chair.
i appreciate that. but obviously we are evidencing the same concernsthc balance between ification and thus presumably absent vigorous dissent of support for a measure and bipartisan support for an undertaking that is deemed to be in the best interests of the country. on the other hand. the other problem is leaks that could endanger lives. and unintentional leaks. one is questioning the loyalty of those four that would be involved in this. it seems to me it is  the best system in many ways in that those four are probably the busiest people in the congress of the united states. first of all. whether they can be located immediately. and i suppose they can. and then you inform them somehow. presumably on the telephone if one of them is in czechoslovakia. england. australia. or wherever it might be. so there you have a problem. the second problem is because they are so busy. are they the people who are going to take the time to digest this. and say to the president. ". wait a minute. does this make sense." i am  sure they are the right people for that because of that very reason. then you get something even larger. you say. "all right. how about the group of eight." the group of eight art. distinguished individuals. but i would point out that i have the fullest confidence in those occupants. certainly both the floor managers of this legislationthe fullest confidence in their total dedication to preserving secrecy. but i would point out that the chairmanship of those committeesi do  k how the house works but cctainly in the senateand the vice chairmanship are purely by seniority. there is  a selective process. and the possibility exists that you get people who through maliciousness on their part tend to discuss things. furthermore. most individuals when placed in this situation want to discuss the situation with somebody other than the members of the administration. you are in australia. you are high up. let us just say chairman or vice chairman of the senate intelligence committee. you have with you your most trusted aide. through the telephone comes the discussion. alertness to a program that is going to be undertaken. call it a special activity or covert action. whatever you want to call it. the first thought of that individual is as he thinks about it. does this make sense. it seems to me the logical thing is to try to discuss it with some trusted person. he is  permitted to do that. that is against the law. certainly with the group of four who are so busy. when hey can get the time to go to see the president and say to the president. "i am  sure we should undertake this." seems to me is questionable.  let us get back to the extension of the time. the extension of the time is purely to allow these special activities that involve individuals lives to be completed. as i say. it could be 5 days. the only reason i put in 10 is it seemed to me 10 days would be able to take care of some expedition that required very careful planning and the individuals could be in and out during that time. so there would be danger of disclosure. so there we are. . again. i would like to get back. if i might. to the other point. first. when american lives are in danger. but i would appreciate it if the chairman or the vice chairman could address the problem of the cooperation and trust of other countries. we like to think that we can do it all alone in america. but in these special activities. covert. whatever one wants to call them. there is question that we frequently are called upon to rely upon our allies for help. we need those individuals to help us. it was my experience. and certainly in discussions with those who head our intelligence activities. that when we had the total freedom of information act applying to the cia. and when we had the access that the press seemed to have to our intelligence activities. much of which has been diminished over the years. that foreign nations would be just plain reluctant to cooperate with the united states of america. their citizens lives were endangered. ..so. thus i believe that this 10day period would encourage greater cooperation and would make more feasible the ability of the united states to call on nationals from other countries. or other nations intelligence services to lend those people to help us out if they knew that one would be told outside of the very. very closest circles within 10 days. i think that is an important facet of all of this. i would be interested in the rebuttal if that is what it s called by the vice chairman of the committee.
. i am one of the original sponsors of the television violence act. which grants a 3year exemption from antitrust laws to the television industry. the sole purpose of this exemption is to allow the industry to develop standards to mitigate needless depictions of violence and illegal drug use on television. the senate has unanimously approved similar legislation in the last two congresses. many americans. including myself. are concerned that televised displays of gratuitous violence contribute to destructive and aggressive behavior. our concern focuses particularly on the effects of such portrayals on children. numerous studies have concluded there is good reason to be concerned. for example. the american psychiatric association and ti american medical association have stated that televised violence is a risk factor that threatens the health and welfare of young americans. the american academy of pediatrics policy statement on children. adolescents. and television declares that repeated exposure to televised violence promotes an acceptance of aggressive behavior as the n. the problem of television violence does  easily lend itself to legislative remedies. whenever congress attempts to deal with issues involving artistic creativity. concerns about possible restrictions on free speech are understandably raised. in addition. those who represent the television industry believe they can act together on this issue due to the potential for antitrust liability. this legislation addresses these obstacles by allowing television broadcasters. networks. programmers. and cable operators to engage in discus. sions aimed at developing voluntary standards to mitigate the negative effects of tv violence. they will be able to do so without the fear of running afoul of antitrust laws. it is important to e that this bill does  impose any regulations. restricting artistic exmay dl. 1989 pression or otherwise. on the television industry. neither does it dictate any requirements with regard to the content of voluntary standards.  create any criteria for those standards. in conclusion. i would like to say that the need for this legislation is readily apparent. one need only turn on the tv to the evening news to hear about the increasing number of violent acts that are being committed by children of a seemingly younger and younger age. the proliferation of television programming containing meaningless violence or illegal drug use can only add to the mounting pressures that our young people must confront. if i had my way. children would watch a lot less television in the first place and spend more time reading or participating in outdoor activities. ethelt.ss. i believe this bill represents a realistic and reasonable approach to a growing problem. i urge my colleagues to join us again in approving this important legislation. with the hope that this congress will go on to pave the way for a solution.
 of the friendly sons of st. patrick. the providence rotary club. and the telephone pioneers. he is a director of blue crossblue shield. hmori. and the rhode island heart fund. as well as a member of the executive committee of the catholic charity fund. bill kelley has represented his company well in his dealings with state government and as an ombudsman for customers. and he has exhibited extraordinary fortitude over the years in his appearances on local radio talk shows. new england telephone has recognized his value and as he retires. bill does so with the title "director of external affairs." by his side during all of these years has been his wife peg. a loving spouse and mother. they are the parents of three daughters. mary. margaret. and maureen. indeed. mary was a member of my washington staff in the late 1970s. bill and peg are also the proud grandparents of fourmichael. stephanie. nicholas. and joseph. bill kelley is a good rhode island. and we are pleased to call him friend.*
could i ask aher question. the reason i am asking these questions is i understand once we get rolling tomorrow. as i just was hearing the discussion while watching the tv on this. that the leader is asking a unanimous consent there be amendments.
. i ask unanimous consent to proceed for 1 minute first in connection with the telephone joint resolution that was introduced by the distinguished republican leader. i further ask unanimous consent to be added as a cosponsor to that joint resolution.
. i would like to share with my colleagues some of my thoughts on the issue before the senate: cable television. and in a larger sense. the topic of modem communications. i find this to be a fascinating matter. and. if we play our cards right. one that portends great things ahead for both american techogy and american consumers. first let me say that i do  believe. as some have said during this debate. that the 1984 cable act that deregulated the cable industrythen in its infancywas a disaster. indeed. i think just the opposite. yes. there are some problems . problems that require swift action on the part of congress. but deregulation helped give wings to an industry that. once on its feet. has provided pheenal benefits to american consumers and american businesses. and on the way. it has revolutionized how americans view the role of video communications in their lives. the rate of change is staggering. stop and think for a moment: back in 1980. did anyone k what "cable" was. the term "cable tv" was most often met with blank expressions. it frequently was  recognized. it was  a household word. instead. the networks were the  1 source of home video entertainment. and the big three were riding high. over the past 10 years. homeowners access to cable has jumped from 45 percent to over 90 percent. the number of cable television subscribers has exploded from about 18 million to 54 million. a figure that translates roughly to 6 out of every 10 homes. today. people dont just want their mtvthey want their cnn. and their espn. and their american movie classics. and their univision. and dozens more. i truly can think of one other industry that in such a short time has turned topsyturvy our understanding of televisionin short. has changed the face of video communications. with our benign acquiescence. it has changed how and where we as a nation obtain our information and entertainment. and as i have said. this dramatic techogical revolution is just getting started. the techogies of the near future that i have glimpsed in reports and heard about in the media seem to me to come straight out of a science fiction movie. i dont think we quite comprehend what the next decade holds for us in terms of advanced communications. fiber optics. video phones. telecommuting: i daresay someone 10 or 15 years hence will read my words and wonder at my igance of such terms. we really are poised at the edge of a very exciting time in communications. and cable has contributed. the growth and expansion cable has experienced has been a good thinga very good thing. in fact. that has opened new worlds for us. what is  as good is the fact that the cable industry has outgrown the rules of the game we set up in 1984. at a time when cable was a mere infant. new rules for the cable game are a good idea. but here is where the debate becomes difficult. and where we need to be careful. cable service is a popular product. and one that americans have adopted very happily. yes. some changes in the rules should be made. and they can be crafted in such a way as to both protect consumers and enhance competition for the common good. but i am leery of jumping back into the oft times smothering embrace of full regulation. it may sound good to say that certain regulations will stop the abuses that are out there. but those selfsame regulations may also stop the creativity. and the investment in quality programming. and the advancement of techogy that is out there as well. and they might cause the loss of jobs in an industry that. unlike many others at this time. has tens of thousands of employees nationwide and. in many areas. is still hiring. my point is this: americans may get angryand rightly soat their cable companies for rate hikes. or poor customer service. or technical problems. but our constituents just want us to fix it kill it. so i say to my colleagues that we must pick and choose carefully. winding our way delicately through the maze of regulation. let us use a scalpel.  a hammer. let us feel our way carefully. and do it right. when we in congress approved the 1984 cable communications act. many of us envisioned the ensuing expansion in cable offerings. we also envisioned. however. a healthy competitive market in which cable systems competed  just with broadcasters. but with each other and video programmers to bring the best service to consumers. that has  happened. instead. across the nation and in my state. we find that it is rare to find more than one cable operator or video programming distributor serving a particular area. in the situation where local service consists of one provider alone. abuses can and do occur. let me say that in general. my home state of rhode island has  experienced the horror stories that have occurred in other states. since the cable companies across my state are deemed to regulation. regardless. however. i understand from the rhode island public utilities commission that they generally conduct themselves well. and that today. the most common complaint is new homeowners inquiring about when they. too. can be hooked up to cable. only one communityfoster. where the population density per mile is lowis  yet wired for cable. and that soon may be remedied as a result of negotiations  underway between the state and cable operators. so while ody is perfect. it is my understanding that on the whole. the rhode island operators are  bad actors. industrywide. however. serious rate abuses have occurred. as have breaches in customer service pledges. and the cable industry structure has developed in a highly concentrated manner that if altered. might better serve the public. to my view. the best thing we can do to get cable companies and operators to shapeup is to promote competitionreal competition. both the bills before the senates. 12 and the substitute theretopropose to do just that. i will say frankly that neither bill is exactly what the doctor ordered. however. the packwood substitute takes an approach that i believe is more appropriate. and thus preferable to s. 12. to my view. it would be a mistake to impose an abundance of regulations all at once on the cable industry. as i said before. we need to feel our way carefully on this: lets change the rules. but let us  go willynilly to the other side of the regulation pendulum. so my recommendation is to go step by step. the new fcc definition of effective competitive was issued only last july. it  only increases the number of broadcast signals required for effective competition. but it also includes a provision about the presence of competing multichannel delivery services. by all accounts. this new definition will up the number of cable companies subject to regulation. i am concerned that only 6 months after the fcc redefinition. we are enacting legislation before we really k what the impact of the new fcc regulation will be. let us proceed cautiously evaluating later the effect of what we have done. for that reason. i intend to support the packwoodstevenskerry substijanuary 31. 1992 cor. tute. an approach that seems to me to be more balanced. there are elements of s. 12 that make sense. and perhaps the final answer lies somewhere between the two proposals. for . however. i will be voting in favor of the substitute. if that substitute fails. i will vote for s. 12. we all recognize that this bill has a ways to gothe house must act. and then both houses must approve a reconciled version of a bill. i look forward to seeing just how the house approaches this issue. and what the final legislative product will be. i hope it will be a bill that  only ensures consumer protection and enhances competition. but one that also will  curb the creative ination that has been so wonderful for the american publicthe goal that we all share.
. i think this is an excellent amendment. it is very ingenious. as has been pointed out. what it does is it targets small business. it applies all across the country to any small business. it is  restricted to enterprise zones as the prior legislation was that we voted on. it says if you leave your money in for 5 years. you get a 50pereent exclusion of your capital gain and if you leave it there for 10 years you get a 100percent exclusion. it would seem to me that would be a very strong inducement for capital to flow to these venture capitaltype operations. where they need capital. as has been pointed out. whether it is biotech. the computer industry. whatever it might be. so i think it is an excellent amendment. and i commend the senator from arkansas and the senator from colorado for developing this amendment.
. i congratulate the managers of this bill and the leadership of the house and senate on bringing to the floor this complex. overdue effort to bring our nations telecommunications laws into the 21st century. although this legislation does  receive the attention in the media as do issues such as the federal budget and tax cuts. its importance to our ecoy. to the livelihoods of all americans. and to continued techogical progress can be overstated. in fact. it has been said that the telecommunications reform bill is the most important piece of legislation we will pass in this congress. this bill . recognizes that market forces and competition are the fuels that drive our nations ecoy. for too long. most sectors of our telecommunications industry. particularly the telephone industry. have been hamstrung by outdated laws that limit access to the marketplace. the great bulk of law in this area is actually some 61 years old. it should be obvious to everyone that communications techogy has been revolutionized during these 61 years. and our laws ought to keep up with these changes in techogy. since the 104th congress began consideration of telecommunications reform early last year. there have been countless forces pulling the authors of this legislation is many different directions. there have been industry groups. individual companies. consumer groups. unions. think tanks. the administration. and many. many more all with an interest in this bill who have rightfully voiced their concerns as this process has gone forward. i admire the long hours of hard work performed by the commerce committee. and its staff in sorting through the maze of this highly complex issue and producing this conference report. i certainly did  envy these individuals as they tackled this extraordinary difficult task. while. as i have said. we all respect the ability of the free market to produce jobs and foster ecoic growth. there are mank in congress who are reluctant to let the marketplace operate completely freely in all telecommunications industries. for example. many of my colleagues are concerned that the regional bell companies will take undue advantage of their ownership of local telephone networks -to compete unfairly in the long distance market. on the other hand. many other colleagues are equally adamant that we should place very few restrictions on bell companies as they are permitted to offer long distance service. this debate over long distance represents just one of the many. many difficult balancing acts the managers of this bill struggled with. in short. my colleagues had to reconcile the views of those who wanted to let the marketplace more or less reign free with those who sought regulatory protection for industries and for consumers. and let me tell you. this was easy task for the authors of this bill. i commend them for their legislative ability. one is 100 percent happy with the final product. but i am confident that the benefits we will realize in enacting this bill in the way of job creation and techogical progress are real. we can all be proud of the job done by the authors of this legislation.
. those remarks were wellphrased by the distinguished ranking member of the full committee. i also want to include in that "pit bull" category. senator abraham. he. also. was right there. they were a team. they dogged us every step of the way. so senator abraham and senator levin both did outstanding work in connection with this legislation. i look forward to a nice. friendly. telephone call from the gover of michigan saying what wonderful things we have done for michigan.
. and gave one of the finest television speeches it has been my privilege to hear. and george mitchell. whom we have just had the privilege of extolling. and rightfully so. and bill cohen. who is  our secretary of defense. and that great tradition of those outstanding senators is carried on  by the two senators from maine. senator olympia se and senator
. those remarks were wellphrased by the distinguished ranking member of the full committee. i also want to include in that "pit bull" category. senator abraham. he. also. was right there. they were a team. they dogged us every step of the way. so senator abraham and senator levin both did outstanding work in connection with this legislation. i look forward to a nice. friendly. telephone call from the gover of michigan saying what wonderful things we have done for michigan.
. and gave one of the finest television speeches it has been my privilege to hear. and george mitchell. whom we have just had the privilege of extolling. and rightfully so. and bill cohen. who is  our secretary of defense. and that great tradition of those outstanding senators is carried on  by the two senators from maine. senator olympia se and senator
i repeat what i said previously. the senator from vermont. in the last campaign. spent $17. he splurged in the last campaign. because in the previous campaign he spent $16. obviously. it is the integrity of the man to be elected to office that counts. his opponent spent much more than that. the american people are  so blind as  to recognize these qualities. plaster as you will his name on television and radioit is what the man stands for that is going to bring him to these halls.
. i do  intend to ask for a rollcall vote. but only to highlight this matter. this is a matter that has  had a full hearing. we had hearings on 1year and 2year extensions of funding for cpb. but never on the question whether any funding was a proper investment for government to make. i hope in the next session the chairman of the subcommittee on communications will grant hearings on this subject to see what the feelings of the people of the nation are on this basic constitutional and policy issue. with that i hope the distinguished chairman has a comment on whether or  it will be possible to get hearings on this vital question.
when the senator from tennessee takes a look at the record. he will see that i took pains to disassociate my observations from his motivations. but my observations hold true as to what was behind the vote which we recently had. let us make mistake about it. whether it is the senator from rhode island. the senator from tennessee. or the senator from connecticut. all three of us are 100 percent behind the corporation for public broadcasting. however. there seems to be quite a bit of difference of opinion as to whether or  it is healthy to exercise governmental control. let me assure the senate. and i think the senator from tennessee ks this. that much of the debate within the committee and much of the talk on this bill relates to broadcast content. i do  think that is a job for the government. i do think. as i said in my statement. that we should be judged on our deeds.  on our powers of propagandizing what we have or have  done. the concept of public broadcasting was to give seed money to this institution. with the hope that they would be inative. that they would branch out in fields that. at that particular moment in television history. were  commercially profitable egh for free enterprise to take on. the senator from tennessee indicates that he wants 1 years worth of funding. my amendment calls for 5 years. but in the course of that 5 years i want cpb to be able to plan to free themselves from the control of the senate commerce committee. the house commerce committee. or the administration. we have business in this business
in response to the distinguished senator from tennessee. the functions which i have proposed to transfer to the fcc are of a rather technical nature. they do  add in any way to the policy determinations to be made by the fcc. specifically. as i recall. i advocated intergovernmental functions. an emergency network. and relations in the international field. that is unrelated to any policy insofar as any communications in the united states are concerned. to respond. however. to the distinguished senator from tennessee. i would  care if it was the fcc or the otp or the president or the senate of the united statesi do  believe the government has a right to get into the governmental area and start determining policy as to the content of broadcasting.
i thank the senator. . i ask unanimous consent that the bill which i introduce today. transferring the functions of the office of telecommunications policy to the federal communications commission. so as to abolish such office. be referred to the committee on government operations and. if reported out by that committee. that it then be referred to the committee on commerce.
 i just wanted to comment briefly on the pending amendment of the distinguished senator from ohio . relative to eliminating the exemption for the federal communications commission. this is the second time that i have indicated i just do  think we should have any exceptions on this bill. the last occasion dealt with exceptions as they applied to labor unions. this time we are talking about an exception in the bill for broadcast license renewal proceedings before the fcc. i have introduced my own amendment which would eliminate the exception for the central intelligence agency. the fbi. the national security agency. and the national security or intelligence functions of the department of defense. when this bill came to the senate in 1970. there were exceptions. and in 1972 there were exceptions. it just goes to show what happens when you leave something lying around the halls of congress for about 4 years. all of a sudden everybody gets to working on it and it longer is a law which applies to everyone but. rather. to fewer and fewer. with those on the outside of the law gaining ascendancy insofar as their numbers are concerned. certainly hing affects the consumer more than that which he hears over the electronic media. the consumer is directly involved with radio stations. television stations. and so forth. clearly. there is compelling rationale for this exemption. i urge my colleagues to support this amendment to assure the broad consumer interest is fully and adequately served by the proposed agency for consumer advocacy.
. i believe the consumer protection act will be very beneficial to all american consumers. in order to have maximum benefit. i believe that the administrator of the new agency should have the ability to represent consumer interests in government wherever they arise. to insure this. i oppose the inclusion in the bill of any exemption for any agency proceedings. i understand that the jurisdiction of the aca extends only to those proceedings which have a substantial effect on an interest of consumers. as those terms are defined in the act. i recognize that this limited jurisdiction will prevent the aca from intervening in agency proceedings which do  directly involve consumer interests. i support this limitation as a proper focus for this new agency. but i oppose any explicit exemption such as those included in section 16 of the act. because of the jurisdictional limitations already in the act. such exemptions are by and large unnecessary and give opponents of this bill an excuse to charge that it is special interest legislation. this il  special interest legislation. i would like to take the opponents argument away. and so in committee markup. i introduced amendments to take out of the bill all exemptions. one of my amendments passed in committee by a 5 to 3 vote deldted from the bill an exemption which would have prohibited the aca from participating in fcc license renewal proceedings. i was very gratified by the committees action. i hope the senate will defeat any attempt to put the exemption back in the bill. the committee report explains the action of the committee in voting out the exemption in some detail. the second full paragraph on page 46 of the report begins: the committee voted to remove from the act the provision which would have prolibited the aca from intervening or otherwise participating in license renewal proceedings of the federal communications commission. it was the committees judgment that a broad across the board exemption should  be explicitly provided for in the act. these sentences present a fair statement of the committees action in my judgment. the paragraph continues: the committees decision  to include the provision should  be interpreted. however. as expressing an intent that the acts definition of consumer interests be interpreted in such a way as to include license renewal proceedings. i would appreciate it if the chairman of the government operations committee would clarify what was intended by this latter statement.
yes. 212 million. i appreciate the problems of 7.200 radio stations and television stations. but 212 million people are out there. they all have the same burdens. they have hundreds of requirements placed upon them by their government in a variety of ways. why should we feel more sorry for the 7.200 radio stations than for the 212 million people.
the distinguished senator from kansas is raising the point that i think will be the nub of our discussions in the next several days relative to these exemption amendments. i appreciate the small station in kansas. but i also appreciate the small person. does the senator realize the obligations that the federal government imposes upon the individual. 212 million americans are out there. with obligation upon obligation placed upon them to observe the laws of this country. if indeed the small station is in tight straits. the small individual is in even tighter straits. i point out that this is the only purpose in opposing this amendment and being for mine. i feel that we all should undergo this type of scrutiny by being subject to this law. and there should be exemptions at all. i make this comment to keep the record straight: first of all. i have complaints whatever against the television medium or the radio medium. whether it is a network or whatever. i think they have done a fantastic job. in fact. i have said many times over that the reason why the united states today is a changed constituency and a far more aware constituency is due principally to two factors: our tremendous investment in public education. number one. and the ability to disseminate facts immediately to all the american people. principally by the electronic media. make mistake about it. they do a fantastic job in informing the american people. and we are a stronger nation today because of the job they do. i have particular gripe against a station or in a general sense against the communications industry. but i want to establish the fact that when we pass a law in this chamber. it applies to everybodywhether small. big. or medium sizedit makes difference. if. in effect. this is going to have a bad effect on small television stations. small radio stations. if it is going to hurt small people. hurt small businesses. right on down the line. do  pass it. i do  think it is going to hurt anybody. everybody else has a spokesman in government. everybody else has an agency. we all k that is one of the difficulties with regulatory agencies today. that is the reason why we have consumer protection legislation before us. obviously. we have gone past that point where the regulatory agencies serve the public. more and more. they have come to serve the entities which they are supposed to regulate. so the public has demanded that they have a voice in government. that is what this is all about. that they have a voice. apparently. what they are going to have is a voice as far as certain aspects of our life are concerned. but  insofar as others are. again. the same arguments can be made on the labor propositioviously. an emously important part of our national fabric. one which i am proud to have represented and supported most of the time. it makes difference to me. they should  be exempt from this legislation. either. let us face it: what we are all involved with here is compromise. compromise. compromise. to the extent that we weaken the credibility of this legislation. that is what is so harmful in this particular instance.
. i ask unanimous consent that the amendment at the desk. my amendment  342. be modified to read. on line 1. "on page 36. beginning with the comma on line 22." instead of "line 20." as it appears in the amendment. i request this change because of the reintroduction of the exemption for the communications industry. it has  changed the bill so that it is necessary to ask for this technical modification.
that was the proper situation. because there had been consultation. the instance that i am discussing is where the communication took place between those individuals and mr. duffy. who was the head of the committee and the counsel for the majority. and mr. schoener was  present in the room when such communications were taking place. that is clearly improper.
. it just does  have to be that way. for that reason i have today instructed my staff to install ttys in both my bridgeport and hartford state offices. these devices take up approximately the same room as a desk calculator. weigh about 3 pounds and cost less than an office typewriter. deaf constituents will be able to call in on my local and wats telephone lines and communicate with the same people and receive the same service as everyone else. careful usage records will be kept and i plan to report back to my colleagues with the results at the end of a 6month test period. if things go as i expect. i will urge the senate committee on rules and administration to make these tty units available to all senators upon request and i invite any interested member to contact my office for further information on the project. the deaf have the right to be a mal functioning part of society. they are doing their part.  lets do ours. i ask unanimous consent that two articles concerning the history and applications of the tty be printed in the record.
indeed. i will. let me respond to some observations made in the chamber in the last several minutes. first of all. and i think the baltimore sun is a great newspaper. indeed. i am in concurrence most of the time with its editorials. i think it is hardly appropriate that the baltimore sun. representing a city that wants to build its own convention center. should go ahead and comment as to a possible conflict insofar as one of the groups that passed judgment on this city having its own center. i am sure the city of baltimore will build a convention center and be a huge success. it is a great city very frankly. i doubt there is much conflict between the two and each can have its own and both will thrive. point  2. i think radio polls have their place. what i think is far more important is the fact that on this project the city council. the elected representatives of the people. voted 9 to 4 in favor.
. i have several questions i would like to ask the distinguished floor manager of this bill. i am particularly interested in section 305 which requires the corporation for public broadcasting to create and update annually. a 5year plan for the development of television and radio services. that is certainly a laudable objective. i e. however. that in contrast to the house bill. s. 2883 would require that this plan be submitted annually to the congress. can the senator assure us that such reports are for informational purposes only. and that it is  the intention of this provision to have the congress influence the programing plans of public television entities or the corporation.
then the senator is saying that it would be inappropriate for the congress. having received these plans from cpb. to try and influence the programing of public television and radio. either directly or through punitive action with regard to appropriations.
has the committee considered the possible "chilling effect" upon the corporations program planning that this provision would have without the assurances that the senator has just given us. and given our common desire to avoid congressional intrusion into public broadcast programing. do the benefits of this provision outweigh the misinterpretations to which it might be subject.
. there is a very simple solution. the time is right for the congress to consider and enact legislation that will give equal access to communications to all deaf and hearingimpaired people. i. therefore. urge my colleagues to support the equal access to communications act of 1979.0
i agree completely. with the senator that the administration and enforcement of the political broadcasting laws remain a priority at the federal communications commission. we have examined this aspect of the commissions responsibilities very carefully and flrmly- believe any lessening of attention to this area is completely unwarranted. . i suggest the absence of a quorum.
yes. i understand the special needs of cairo at the confluence of these great rivers. the mississippi and ohio. and would agree to direct the national weather service to conduct a suitable review before making any decision to close down the local station in cairo.
. i ask unanimous consent that the senator from south carolina. the hoable stmom thurmond. be added as a cosponsor to senate joint resolution 258. which designated december 1982 as "national closedcaption television month."
. i oppose the legislation  before the senate. i shall  address my remarks specifically to the budget waiver. we may as well get into the substance of this matter. i inquire as to whether or  the expenditure of moneys involved here is worth it insofar as the interests of the american people are concerned. first. to my good friend from illis. i say let us get one point clear. he says the cuban people have the right to finally hear the truth. several months ago. i happened to spend a week in cuba. every evening. i would turn on my transistor radio and. lo and behold. guess what i was hearing. miami radio stations. new orleans radio stations. new york radio stations. certainly. my good friend from illis does  mean to imply that american radio stations. privately owned in the free sector. are doing anything but broadcasting the truth. and believe me. all those radio stations are heard in cuba. to a greater or lesser degree. as is the voice of america. so. in terms of what is being heard in cuba. i can assure my colleagues that what i being heard is. in good measure. the voice of this country. either through the voice of america or through the private sector. various stations broadcasting from varlous american cities.
what the senator from connecticut heard was exactly what the senator from illis hears when he turns his radio on in his automobile or his homethe news broadcast by american broadcasters. rock and roll. sports. indeed. the picture of life in this country and around the world that we all get when we turn on our radio stations. that is what the senator from connecticut heard. indeed. when i left this country for a week. i would have preferred to hear some other culture than our own for a week. i did . i heard our own culture. i heard those broadcasts emanating from our news media. which i do  think are tainted or biased. it was quite an experience. i am  saying that the reception was all that the senator or i would want all the time. but i think it terribly important to differentiate between the situation in cuba and that in eastern europe. first of all. we are talking about an island 90 miles off our shore. obviously--
i heard both. english and spanish. to my good friend from florida let me say this: 1. as much as she. feel that there ought to be an accurate picture of life within the united states and throughout the world broadcast to the cuban people. indeed. i think the time has come for the united states of america to fill a vacuum created by the lack of the presence of the united states of america in cuba. because only if that happens can we get the soviet union out of our hemisphere. the way to do that is to start talking and start being there. i ask my good friend from florida and my good friend from illis. why do we  go to cuba. why do you  go to cuba. why do you  start talking. i ask my good friend from florida. she has the largest cuban constituency in the united states. i think it is high time the cuban people had a chance to talk to the senator from fiorida on cuban soil and the other senator from florida and the chairman of our foreign relations committee. i k of substitute for the human presence insofar as getting our point of view across. but certainly. i do  accept as a substitute for this senator or for the views of the american people radio broadcasts from a government agency.
 our culture of truth. in other words. you can turn on the radio and hear everything and anything. i do  need to spend $5 million and entrust it to some government agency to start propaganda. i am talking about difference than if the senator turned on her radio driving from jacksonville to miami at night. she is going to get everything from all over the united states of america.
. i am delighted to accept this amendment. which raises the appropriation for the corporation for public broadcasting to newly authorized levels. public radio and television provide extraordinary services to tens of millions of americans every day. for a remarkably small investment. public broadcasting addresses essential educational informational and cultural needs of all of our citizensbut more especially our most important national resourceour children. this increase in appropriations of $70 million over the next 3 years will allow public broadcasting to preserve its current services. restore programing cuts that have been made. and begin new programing services for the public. increases in tv national programs production will help principally in furthering cpbs first program prioritychildrens programing. i urge my colleagues to support this amendment
i thank the senator from south dakota. who is one of only two senators who served in the military in vietnam. for his interest and support of this legislation. while the appropriations committee can endorse a specific proposal. the development of a demonstration national job bank network involving volunteer citizen participation such as you describe may be possible. i would expect action to take reasonable and appropriate steps to ensure that the positive gains in employment and the volunteer networks created by the vvlp are  lost during their transition to private sector funding. i also encourage action to explore the use of computer data bases and computerized networks as a means of enhancing and expanding its volunteer programs and services.
. i oppose the legislation  before the senate. i shall  address my remarks specifically to the budget waiver. we may as well get into the substance of this matter. i inquire as to whether or  the expenditure of moneys involved here is worth it insofar as the interests of the american people are concerned. first. to my good friend from illis. i say let us get one point clear. he says the cuban people have the right to finally hear the truth. several months ago. i happened to spend a week in cuba. every evening. i would turn on my transistor radio and. lo and behold. guess what i was hearing. miami radio stations. new orleans radio stations. new york radio stations. certainly. my good friend from illis does  mean to imply that american radio stations. privately owned in the free sector. are doing anything but broadcasting the truth. and believe me. all those radio stations are heard in cuba. to a greater or lesser degree. as is the voice of america. so. in terms of what is being heard in cuba. i can assure my colleagues that what i being heard is. in good measure. the voice of this country. either through the voice of america or through the private sector. various stations broadcasting from varlous american cities.
what the senator from connecticut heard was exactly what the senator from illis hears when he turns his radio on in his automobile or his homethe news broadcast by american broadcasters. rock and roll. sports. indeed. the picture of life in this country and around the world that we all get when we turn on our radio stations. that is what the senator from connecticut heard. indeed. when i left this country for a week. i would have preferred to hear some other culture than our own for a week. i did . i heard our own culture. i heard those broadcasts emanating from our news media. which i do  think are tainted or biased. it was quite an experience. i am  saying that the reception was all that the senator or i would want all the time. but i think it terribly important to differentiate between the situation in cuba and that in eastern europe. first of all. we are talking about an island 90 miles off our shore. obviously--
i heard both. english and spanish. to my good friend from florida let me say this: 1. as much as she. feel that there ought to be an accurate picture of life within the united states and throughout the world broadcast to the cuban people. indeed. i think the time has come for the united states of america to fill a vacuum created by the lack of the presence of the united states of america in cuba. because only if that happens can we get the soviet union out of our hemisphere. the way to do that is to start talking and start being there. i ask my good friend from florida and my good friend from illis. why do we  go to cuba. why do you  go to cuba. why do you  start talking. i ask my good friend from florida. she has the largest cuban constituency in the united states. i think it is high time the cuban people had a chance to talk to the senator from fiorida on cuban soil and the other senator from florida and the chairman of our foreign relations committee. i k of substitute for the human presence insofar as getting our point of view across. but certainly. i do  accept as a substitute for this senator or for the views of the american people radio broadcasts from a government agency.
 our culture of truth. in other words. you can turn on the radio and hear everything and anything. i do  need to spend $5 million and entrust it to some government agency to start propaganda. i am talking about difference than if the senator turned on her radio driving from jacksonville to miami at night. she is going to get everything from all over the united states of america.
. i am delighted to accept this amendment. which raises the appropriation for the corporation for public broadcasting to newly authorized levels. public radio and television provide extraordinary services to tens of millions of americans every day. for a remarkably small investment. public broadcasting addresses essential educational informational and cultural needs of all of our citizensbut more especially our most important national resourceour children. this increase in appropriations of $70 million over the next 3 years will allow public broadcasting to preserve its current services. restore programing cuts that have been made. and begin new programing services for the public. increases in tv national programs production will help principally in furthering cpbs first program prioritychildrens programing. i urge my colleagues to support this amendment
i thank the senator from south dakota. who is one of only two senators who served in the military in vietnam. for his interest and support of this legislation. while the appropriations committee can endorse a specific proposal. the development of a demonstration national job bank network involving volunteer citizen participation such as you describe may be possible. i would expect action to take reasonable and appropriate steps to ensure that the positive gains in employment and the volunteer networks created by the vvlp are  lost during their transition to private sector funding. i also encourage action to explore the use of computer data bases and computerized networks as a means of enhancing and expanding its volunteer programs and services.
. to such testimony or evidence. pursuant to title 22 u.s.c. 276d276g. broadcasting of hearings or meetings as amended. appoints the senator rule 11. any meeting or hearing by the from alaska as a committee which is open to the public may member of the senate delegation to be covered in whole or in part by television the canadaunited states interparliabroadcast. radio broadcast. or still photogra- mentary group during the second sesphy. photographers and reporters using me- sion of the 99th congress. to be held in tucson. az. on february 27march 3. 1986.
madam president. i want to commend the distinguished senator from montana for the amendment which he has brought to the floor. i suspect that there will be other amendments of a negative nature offered. so i would like to only spend a few minutes addressing some remarks to what has been proposed by the distinguished senator from montana. if there is anything that cries out for revision. it is the u.s. policy in the caribbean as it relates to several countries. most particularly its policy toward cuba. the cries for revision on the simple basis that it has failed. indeed. we are seeing part of that failure debated over in the senate caucus room in the russell buildng. these are  acts separate and apart. nicaragua. cubaall are part of central america. the caribbean basin. with other nations in south america. but all should be foremost in our mind in developing a policy. a foreign policy. appropriate to our hemisphere. what has the foreign policy consisted of insofar as cuba is concerned. the foreign policy has consisted of name calling. it has consisted of placing the united states in a vacuum to where it can respond to the threats of communism or in the case of cuba the presence of communism on that island. some satisfaction is to be drawn simply by americans sitting at home watching their television sets as their leaders yell invectives across the florida straits. hing. however. is achieved in removing the communist presence on that island. i realize we are coming upon a presidential election year and everybody is desirous of having the delegates from florida. i have doubt there are those who represent the state of florida that will offer a point of view difference to this senator. but the foreign policy of this nation should be decided with the leadership of all 50 states. i think it is  that all 50 states should say that the present policy is bankrupt and it has failed. the communists are still on the island. i would suggest that a little more interaction between cuba and the united states is called for. rather than yelling words across the florida straits and pandering to particular political constituencies. let us provide something that is logical in the interests of the united states. i am sure. because of the nature of information that comes to the american people. most americans are still out there with what i call the wait till they run out of spare parts philosophy. that is. cuba sits in isolation from everybody. that its infrastructure still relies on the support of the united states. well. let me use this occasion to inform everybody. everybody is there except the united states.  only the soviet union but france is there. spain is there. japan is there. great britain is there. germany is there. italy is there. there is  a nation in the world that does  engage in extensive commerce with cuba. . it would seem to be as a matter of common sense that if. indeed. we want to establish our influence in the hemisphere and paricularly on the island of cuba. then we have to be there to do it. what the senator from montana suggests in way establishes diplomatic relations. it does  relieve the isolation of which i have spoken. it in way allows cuban exports into the united states. it very simply permits the export of agricultural products from the united states to cuba. what a modest first step. so everyone understands the position of this senator. which is  the position of the senator from montana. my feeling is we will deal with that communist threat and will get the communists off the island much faster if we do establish diplomatic relations. if we do permit american tourists. if you will. to invade cuba.  the cia. that is a far cry from what is being presented. . sooner or later this placing ourselves into a vacuum is going to evolve into something a good deal more serious than the isolation of these two neighbors and the permanent residency of the soviets on the island of cuba. then there will be a real price to be paid. i hope that this amendment will mark the beginning of a sensible foreign policy as between the united states and cuba. ody is here to speak for the transgressions of the cuban government. that is  the issue. the issue is what is in our best interests. it is as if in this debate i chose  to come to the floor to debate my friends. senators helms. chiles. and whoever else might be with them. but. rather. chose to make radio addresses from my office in the russell building. it is an exact parallel. if you do  like the soviet presence. if you do  like the policies of the cuban government. then get into the right there and compete with them. i have doubt that the cuban people themselves far prefer the united states and the american people than they do the soviet union or the soviets that reside on the island. but so far we have so manufactured it that the only people they see are the soviets. i am sure there will be further debate on this matter. i do  mean to take any more time. the senator from montana deserves a vote on this amendment. but this very modest. small step. which actually is. i might say again. in our financial intereststhe exportation of our agricultural productsi think does carry with it a little opening. which hopefully might be expanded. into a mal relationship between these two nations. . if the final resolution of the problem is going to be military and is going to be conflict. fine. just keep going the way we are going. but i think something else is deserving of being tried. but what i think also is just as important is that the. foreign policy of the united states  be made subject to a particular brand of politics. be it philosophical or regional. . i support the amendment of the distinguished senator from montana. i want to make one further statement. if there are other amendments that are going to fly on the heels of this one. then we are going to have ourselves a good oldfashioned debate. i think we are at the end of the line at this cubanbashing routine. somebody has got to start to explain the alternatives to the american people. it is  the present policy or hing. is there anybody in this body or outside of it that is afraid to compete either in terms of agricultural products or pharmaceutical products or education khow or medical khow. is anybody afraid to compete with the soviets. i am . but to this point the competition does  take place because the united states does  come on the playing field. all so that we can satisfy our angers and our frustrations relative to our neighbors to the south. so i want to make it clear that. as others have indicated. this will  be the last word to be said on the matter of cuba. and i would hope that the whole matter. very frankly. does  impede the passage of this trade bill. i think we ought to be through with this and let us get on to other things. i hope everybody has ed that we injected ourselves i think about in every .single nation in the world in the course of this bill. i thought we were here to try to remedy some of the problems we had instead of trying to go ahead and impose ourselves on everybody else. but be that as it may. the policy of food exportation i think is a small but an important first step and i hope the amendment would pass. indeed. if the reasoning that opposes the amendment of the senator from montana is valid. then we should  be sending food anywhere in the world.  to poland.  to the soviet union.  anywhere. but. of course. we do. all of a sudden this has become a litmus test. the issue of united states relations. it has hing to do with reality. as i say. the facts prove that. it is a litmus test for certain philosophies and certain politics. that is  sufficient for what i consider to be a bad foreign policy and i hope the amendment of the senator from montana passes.
 pointed to all the paperwork and procedures that bogged down the whole governmental system. but what we have before us right  is a perfect example of why that happens. here we have a valid piece of legislation which has been on hold for 4 years. for 4 years. these most disenfranchised elements of society have waited their turn.  is their day. and we have to be concerned with rupert murdoch. so regardless of how we feel about mr. murdoch or waivers from the fcc. or media crossownership. i would hope that we would go ahead and table this amendment  on the matter of substance. but on the fact that mr. murdoch gets his hearings day in and day out. he has his lawyers before the fcc and in court. he has fox television and all of its publications with which to voice his opinion. he has a voice. he has the money. he has the opportunity. whereas. the women. the blacks. the retarded. and the elderly who have been stripped of their constitutional guarantees. are still on the outside looking in. i do  think this country has anything to apologize for in terms of giving mr. murdoch his due. day after day after day. whether it is his opinion or his money. he has done very well. the subject matters of this legislation have done very badly in the nation. in its courts. and in its legislature. i would hope at the appropriate time that this matter will be tabled for the reason that i have described and so that ody comes back after me and says. "well. you k mr. murdoch didnt like weicker so welcker is flying under false colors." i told you exactly what the problem is i have with mr. murdoch so we get that right up front. that is neither here  there. really i have to tell you. i have desperately tried along with senator kennedy. and i might add senator hatch. to get this piece of legislation before this body and if we take on every single amendment. and i realize it is our right to do so. and a very important right i might add. but i am asking. i am begging my colleagues to please forbear in this instance and let us get on to the business of grove city.
. at a time when a good deal of attention is focused on the communications gap between adults and youngsters. it is good to remind ourselves of the many more instances when there is such gap. perhaps one of the most heartening illustrations of the close bond between generations is seen in the life of one of americas great folk heroes. babe ruth. and in the program named after him. babe ruth baseball. ruth. who grew up in a baltimore orphanage. became mr. baseball to generations of americans. during his life. the babe was devoted to children and. after his death. a program for youngsters from 13 to 15 years of age grew and took his name. today babe ruth baseball leagues are international harbingers of good will. dedicated to kids. baseball. and sportsmanship. babe ruth leagues. which were set up for boys too old to participate in little league plays. have been highly successful. participation is intense in my own area of new york state with 11 babe ruth leagues active in capitaland. of which my 29th district is the center. close to a thousand youngsters in the 13 to 15 age category are involvedand equally important--so are their parents. in fact. there are plans to organize a senior babe ruth league in the area for youngsters from 15 to 18 years of age. games become great social events. where families gather and cheer their team. the competition is always intense but fair. one of the overriding concepts that is part of babe ruth baseball. babe ruth baseball cuts across all social and ethnic barriers to unite youngsters in the camaraderie of sport. youngsters learn responsibility. the value of teamwork. and the moral code of sportsmanship. such an experience should be available for all children. unfortunately. it is . while the private sponsors and dos that make such league play possible have been extremely generous in most communities. the sorry fact is that many more facilities for youngsters are needed. shortages of recreation areas are especially acute in this nations inner cities. where conditions combine to make the life of youngsters a hard prospect. there the communications gap goes beyond generations. it is a gulf between life experiences. numerous commissions and study groups have reported on the recreation needs of this country. one need  belabor the point to say that a place to play is pretty important to the development of our children. what is needed is coordinated attention to the problems facing our youngsters today. certainly. one believes that increased recreation facilities alone can answer the problems. but such facilities can do a great deal to alleviate many of them. we have the example of babe ruth to prove the point. where a boy raised an orphan overcame all handicaps to become a great man. babe ruth baseball is dedicated to this ideal. in the same spirit. we are urging others to join in a concerted effort to save our children. prompt action is needed at the federal level to find ways of curing the problems.
. on sunday. september 10. the american broadcasting co. presented a 4hour television program on the history. the culture. the problems. and the prospects of the many peoples and nations which compromise the continent of africa. it is a subject that is deeply intertwined with the future peace and security of the world. the american people need to be as well informed about problems around the world as they are concerned with their own problems at home. the american broadcasting co. and minnesota mining & manufacturing co.. the sponsor of the program. are to be congratulated for the service they have rendered in presenting a broad view and a better understanding of a part of the world about which. too often. too little is kn. i hope that the networks and sponsors will continue to present such worthwhile programs to the american people. and that the expanding possibilities for education and information through television will continue to be explored and developed by all the networks.
to a degree. i believe that is true. one of the things i found somewhat alarming was that african leaders. in far too many instances. as well as the african people generally. in reading the newspapers. watching television. and listening to the radio are apt to give more credence to what is written or said by one individual in this country. let us say that one member of congress makes a speech which could be considered racist it will get wide play in africa. as a result. many africans will believe that that is the american government speaking as a whole. i tried my best to point out that such statements were the opinion of one individual only and  the american government speaking. that under our system of government anyone can stand up and say anything. presumably. he chooses to say. and that africans should look to the actions of the american government rather than to the words of one individual. but these views are common all over the world. including asia. they hear one person speaking. and they listen to him and credit our entire system of government for those remarks. generally speaking. the more educated africans do understand what our government has done and what it has  done. as well as the difference between the governments role and individuals role in speaking in america.
. i am informed that on 9 p.m.. tuesday. may 20. television station weta will present a color documentary entitled "machiasport. conflict over oil." this program has already been shown by several educational television stations around the country and has received great praise for its fair and balanced analysis of the debate over the establishment of a foreign trade zone and oil refinery at machiasport. maine. with its showing in the washington area on tuesday. i hope all that have expressed an interest in this vital matter will have the opportunity to view this program.
. in a few months we will celebrate the 20th anniversary of educations first real involvement in broadcast television. this effort began at iowa state college iowa state universitywhich in february 1950. began the operation of the first educationally owned and operated television station in this country. the system grew rapidly. as far back as 1953. states were developing plans and starting to build statewide educational television networkssystems of interconnected stations designed to bring a broad scope of programing to all within the boundaries of the states involved. in may 1953. kuht. in houston. tex.. became the first licensed. commercial. educational television station in the country. today. with few exceptions. each state of the union. as well as american samoa. is benefiting emously from broadcast public television. in addition. we have regional educational television networksvast systems of interconnected state networks such as the eastern educational network. with such a system. vermonters. for example. view exciting. live. public television programing from weta in washington. d.c. the number of stations continues to grow. they  number 182. the audience continues to grow. the quality of programing continues to grow. its impact continues to grow. the inschool instructional services provided. the many fine programs for children out of school. the cultlral. scientific. and public affairs programs for general home viewing and the excellent. courselike programs for special interest groups have caused the average american  only to change his former viewing habits. but participate in his local public television station program activities. and. in many cases. to actively support the operation of his station. the public television station has become a part of our way of life. so well does it supplement and complement the library. the museum. the symphony hall. the concert stage. the public forum. the seminar room. the sports arena. the theater. and other presentational and demonstration forms that we think of it today in superlative terms. john milton wrote: good. the more communicated. more abundant grows. the purpose of public television is to communicate "good." and it is doing it well. . at long last. a public television system is being developed in the u.s. virgin islands. to serve the 60.000 citizens of those three lovely islands. the virgin islands public television system. establishing as a public corporation. a government authority. will construct two public television stations. public television does  come easily to the islands. years of preparation and planning. significant local appropriations. anticipated financial support from health. education. and welfare and the corporation for public broadcasting and dedicated leadership are required to bring about public television in the islands. the farsightedness of the members of the legislature of the virgin islands in bringing it to pass and the islands continued support of it will result in the development on one of the nations finest educational television systems. we must recognize that the insular aspects of life have resulted in limiting the experience of most island children. there is a cry for those new enriching and stimulating experiences that are part of the mal way of life of the continental child. what public television can and often does do so effectively here. in the states. it must and will do meaningfully in the islands. lives will be enriched. minds will be stimulated and challenged. children will share new experiences. and the home will become a center for the many cultural. scientific. and public affairs experiences soon to be available to them. in addition to what we might consider conventional educational fare. the virgin islands public television system will prepare programs for the special needs of the west indian and his culture. programing for special interest groups in the areas of medicine. law. public safety. business management. inservice teacher training. consumer education. and aging. as well as programs for the disadvantaged will be regularly scheduled. i am confident that special programs produced in the virgin island will be available for regular showing on stateside public television stations. what wonderful viewing experiences will be enjoyed as we learn more of these marvelous islands both at home and in school. i am pleased indeed to report that the management and staff of weta. channel 26. our local washington station. is working closely with the public television people in st. thomas. weta recently produced special program materials to aid the virgin islands public television system in its demonstration efforts. and as a further point of interest. the general manager of the virgin islands public television system was. in fact. one of the original staff members of that iowa station pioneering in educational television in 1950. that pioneer spirit lives on. as we approach the 20th anniversary of television in education. we may rejoice at our success thus far. but we must continue our efforts to support the development of new and exciting facilities. such as these in our virgin islands. that will serve new population groups of americans for generations to come.
 stated strongly that there was a great need for a better weather warning system in the country. we are very hopeful that we can have this item approved in the supplemental budget. based upon the recommendation of the distinguished senator from maine. i withdraw the amendment.
i think the distinguished senator from florida has raised an important question. i do  want him to feel for a moment that i do  think so. i think he has made a contribution to this debate merely by raising that question and in the manner in which he raised it. i am very grateful that he did. i think it ought to be discussed. this is one of the most important points to be discussed. i think the american people should be very kledgeable about this resolution. they should k what it is. and that the members of the foreign relations committee and the senate ultimately. if it agrees to this resolution. have intention of giving away the security of the united states of america. our negotiators and the members of the senate foreign relations committee are very kledgeable men. they have been at this business a long time. they have dealt with the soviet union. they k the past successes and they k the past failures of the soviet union. they are  being hoodwinked at all. we are  trying by this resolution to give up anything that would put us in a position of weakness. and we are  trying to show too much eagerness. as the senator has pointed out. which might indicate to the soviet union that we are overly anxious and thereby trying to conceal some weakness on our part. i do  think for a moment that the soviet union is unaware of the nuclear capability of the united states of america. they may  k everything. to be sure. but they have a pretty general idea as to what our capability is. just as we have a pretty general idea of their capability. they k that we have x number of icbms. they k about our submarine fleet. they k about our b52 bomber force. and they k about the weapons in europe and things of that nature. which are pretty generally kn. they have their satellite observation. as we do. and we can underestimate them in this respect. if this moratorium. this freeze. is to be successful at all. i agree with the distinguished senator from florida that it will be due to a large degree to our strength and the soviet unions strength as well. we k that. but i just can believe that the soviet union has inexhaustible funds. i just can believe that the russian people are bent on destruction of themselves. certainly we are  bent on the destruction of the united states and other people of the world. i believe that perhaps the time may be right for an arms limitation agreement. irrespective of all the failures in the past. this time may be right. if this is the right time. the right time in history. all i am saying is. let us take advantage of it. let us move . while we can. let us  lose a day in moving in order to tie it down and to enter into an agreement which can be verified. and which i am hopeful will be successful.
. the senator raises a very valid and certainly a very important point. what the senator is concerned about is the possibility of cheating under such an agreement. if we enter into an agreement for a moratorium on flight testing and deployment of the complex weapons systems. the soviet union might go ahead and continue this flight testing and even go ahead with further deployment of one of these weapons systems. how would we k if this is occurring. i assume the senator is concerned because national detection is inadequate to give us the confidence and assurance we ought to have for national security. and it is a very real and a very valid concern. all i can say to the senator is that with the techogy and scientific devices we have today. with the national verification techniques we have today. and from the information i have been able to obtain from high sources both in our defense department and in the scientific community. we can. for example. tell by way of a satellite whether an actual missile is in a silo in the soviet union. and. of course. they can tell how many missiles we have in silos in the united states. flight testing of mrvs and mirvs can be verified according to our best information. there is. howeverand i want to make :t very clearsome difference of opinion in the scientific community as to whether we can actually by the use of satellite observation photographs tell whether an mrv is actually being tested as distinguished from a mirv. some say yes. and some say  i have proposed in this resolution that we might even suggest that certain ranges be specified or that certain times be set aside for such testing in the future. things of this nature would be a subject for negotiation. to be sure. but. of course. the soviet union has the same problem the united states has in this regard. they will  k whether we are cheating. because they do  have any better techniques for verification than we do. i disagree with the distinguished senator from arizona on this point. as i said. but frankly i do  think we are in a worse position than the soviet union. i think their risk is probably as great or greater. in my opinion. than ours insofar as national verification is concerned. if the soviet union is to join in this agreement. i k that we do  want to base it on hope and just leave it to trust when national security is concerned. we want to do all we can to be sure that the agreement is being lived up to and that there is problem at all about improving or increasing our verification methods. there is hing in the moratorium that in any way limits the methods of verification that we can use or that we can ultimately achieve. and that is the only satisfaction that i can give to the distinguished *senator from iowa who. i k. asks this question in all earnestness and seriousness.
the production lines are open. we still have the production lines open on the msrs. the computer capability. and the sprint missiles. we are  closing those up. as they would have been under other amendments.
. i am indeed pleased to associate myself with the sentiments expressed so ably by the senior senator from illis and other distinguished senators. the civilized world has been shocked and dismayed by the recent rash of hijackings. hundreds of lives have been threatened. and millions of dollars worth of equipment and personal effects have been destroyed. but most important of all. the hijackings represent a direct and imminent threat to the authority of established governments to maintain free communications and to preserve the bases of our civilization. hijacking is every bit as reprehensible as piracy and kidnaping. and the nations of the world k that the threat represented by this form of outlawty will  be effectively removed until all states. working together. secure the release of all the remaining passengers and bring the outlaws to justice. i commend my distinguished colleague for offering this resolution. demonstrating the unanimity of the american people on this vital point. i hope that the palestinian guerrillas will heed this clear expression. which i am sure will be echoed in all the capitals of the world. let the prisoners be released. let the hijackings cease. and let the question of a palestinian homeland be resolved in the only possible and appropriate foruman international conference table.
. the senate is  considering an amendment which would delete $137.6 million. earmarked for the space shuttle and space station. from the nasa authorization bill. last year i supported a similar authorization on the grounds that it was necessary to proceed with the research in order to determine whether such techogy was both technically and ecoically feasible. this year. once again. i will support the authorization. i do so. however. in the clear understanding that passage of the pending request represents congressional commitment to full development of the space shuttle and the space station. i have several concerns about this particular project.  least is the projected cost: official estimates of the development costs of the space shuttle run as high as $10 billion in this decade. this is a great expense. particularly at a time when we are reducing our expenditures in defense and space in order to provide more adequately for the immediate needs of our people. the $10 billion could represent the major portion of our allowable expenditures for space research in all of the 1970s. by investing this much in a single project. we risk foreclosing our options in terms of developing other techogy which might. in the long run. prove more beneficial both in terms of space exploration and in terms of its "spif" value here on earth. we are  very close to king whether the space shuttle/space station concept is indeed operable. inasmuch as the preliminary studies are  nearing completion. i believe it would be unwise to deny the research and scientific communities the opportunity of making the final investigations necessary to determine the feasibility of this complex project. but i would urge both the scientists at nasa and those who oversee them to give the most serious consideration to other alternative programs. including remotecontrol devices and the development of more sophisticated boosters. space research and space techogy alike can lead to continuing progress in terms of advancing the frontiers of human kledge and expanding the limits of human capabilities. but the scientific community must be free to pursue the fullest range of alternatives. it must  lock itself in by its own investments. before further funds are made available for the space shuttle. i am hopeful that the many questions surrounding its workability will have been answered satisfactorily.
ial elections. there would be little point in retaining it for other federal contests. repeal of section 315 would logically bring about a second highly desirable goala reduction in spending for media advertising and in the superficial commercialization of candidates that has become much too familiar in american political life. after thorough consideration. i have concluded that we should adopt that part of the amendment proposed by senator pastore which would limit spending for broadcast media to 5 cents per eligible voter. a study of the 1970 expenditures in senatorial contests reveals that a large majority of the candidates would have spent less than 5 cents per voter. there is. therefore. need to enact into law a provision which has the effect of permitting increases. rather than limits. of the high costs of campaigning. my decision on this matter was influenced also by two additional aspects of the bill about which there is little disagreement. first. the spending limitation will be based on the number of eligible voters rather than the number of individuals voting in the previous election. second. the bill requires that all charges for broadcast facilities be assessed at the lowest unit advertising rate of the station in the 45 days prior to a primary election and 60 days prior to a general election. these changes will. in most cases. translate the 5cent limit of the present bill to approximately 10 cents under the old standards. along with the 5cent per eligible voter muskle limit on broadcast media expendi- nelson paekwood tures. as well as repeal of section 315. this pastore provision would place a reasonable limi- pearson pell tation on the amount of television adver- percy tising but would still be high egh to prouty provide adequate opportunity for each proxmire candidate fully to present his views to the randolph public in whatever manner he sees fit. the senate will be debating other im- buckley portant aspects of this bill in the coming days. hopefully. these efforts will result baker in legislation which is desired by a great bayh majority of the public as well as by most bentsen individuals who run for public office. so mr. it is clear that the american campaign fled. was process has become. in too many instances. a contest where the survivors are the wealthiest. the best performers. and mr. s( the ones with the best advertising con- my ame sultants. if we are to restore the confi- immedia dence of american citizens in the politi- the cal process and in the congress itself. amendm passage of this bill is a vital and requisite the a step. on pag
. the senate aeronautics and space sciences committee is currently conducting extensive hearings into the request of the national aeronautics and space administration to authorize $227.9 million for development of the space shuttle. i have continually believed that the united states can and should support a space program of moderate means and expectations. in retrospect. it may be argued that the decision to conduct an allout effort to land a man on the moon by the end of the 1960s did  result in the most effective or ecoical use of our scientific resources. by contrast. it seems reasonable to suggest that the current nasa budget. which represents slightly more than 1 percent of our national budget as compared to more than 5 percent in the mid1960s. is a realistic program. the scientific research which results from the space program has a potential ecoic and social impact far exceeding the nasa expenditures. after careful study. i am convinced that the space shuttle represents the most efficient means of continuing the space program at minimum cost and maximum benefit. in this respect an article in the april 1972 issue of foreign affairs provides an excellent analysis of the space shuttle program. written by robert jastrow. director of the institute for space studies and office of nasa goddard space flight center. and homer e. newell. associate administrator of nasa. and formerly associate administrator for space science and applications. the article includes a short history of the american space program and comments in greater detail on the ecoic practicality and potential scientific benefits from the shuttle. the authors conclude from their discussion of the ecoic benefits of the space program: the extensive use of space is becoming an ecoic necessity for every techogically advanced nation. the united states probably could  maintain a competitive position with other major powers in international commerce unless it made full use of the most advanced techogies available. including those of spacecommerceoriented satellites and the ecoics of the shuttlein the conduct of its domestic and foreign affairs. i ask unanimous consent that the article entitled "the space program and the national interest" be printed in the record.
. i support the committees recommendation of $227.9 million for continued funding of the space shuttle program. this money will enable nasa to continue the orderly development of the principal components of the shuttle. the shuttle represents a new concept in space exploration. because it is reusable. it considerably reduces the time and the unit cost for transporting spacecraft into orbit. as such. i believe that it represents a significant techogical improvement over the singleshot booster program which has characterized the american space program thus far. equally as important. the shuttle will expand the scientific opportunities of the space program. the farflung inations that the program has fostered in such areas as medicine. communications. and the environment can be continued on a larger and more intensive scale because of the increased capability and utility of the shuttle. for example. it is expected that the shuttle will be able to carry biologists and physicists. in addition to the present corps of highly skilled pilots. who will be able to conduct more sophisticated experimentation in space. although we can state categorically at this time what will be the nature of each of these research efforts. i am confident that the nasa projects will result in benefits for all mankind for outweighing the initial cost of the program. moreover. it has been pointed out that the use of space is becoming an ecoic necessity for a techogically advanced nation. the fact is that we have grown to rely on such spaceoperated services as improved weather forecasting. a tenfold increase in capacity for transoceanic telephone conversations. and the photographic techniques which contribute to a more efficient means of land use and development and these projects represent only the tip of the iceberg. we would be resisting the inexorable flow of progress if we were to handicap the efficient continuation of these programs at a reasonable cost. furthermore. as the apollo program reaches -its completion this year. i believe that we should strive to keep together the highly talented community of scientists and engineers which nasa has built during the past decade. our nation can and should continue to support a space program that represents slightly more than 1 percent of our total government expenditures. let us  forget. also. that the space budget for 1973 and for the foreseeable future represents a nearly 50 percent reduction in the amount of money spent by nasa in 1966. because the space shuttle will permit our country to continue the great scientific adventures which we have only just begun. and because it can be financed within the confines of the present space budget. i believe that the senate should give the program its continued support.
s message and the stipulation of the broadcasting act that it: carry out its purposes and functions and engage in its activities in ways that will most effectively assure the maximum freedom of the commercial educational television or radio broadcast systems and local stations from interference with or control of program content or other activities. section 39(g) (1) (d). (emphasis added.) i can stress adequately my fears about the future of public television if the corporation for public broadcasting is  set aright.  can i emphasize egh my conviction that the only way to keep the government funds which help support public broadcasting free from even the hint of government restraint and censorship is to guarantee that decisionmaking power for program selection and scheduling is kept firmly in the hands of the licensees scattered across the country. they represent the diversity of this countrys population from aberdeen. s. dak.. to yakima. wash.. with cities like boston. los angeles. and waycross. ga.. in between. control of the system which links these stations and gives them their collective strength should be kept in their hands as congress clearly stated in the public broadcasting act. public television needs our continued support to bring more and even better programs to the nation. but it also deserves our careful scrutiny to protect it from the fatal dangers of centralized control.
. this is  the time to assume that actual and lasting detente with the soviet union and its client regimes in eastern europe has been achieved. that would be mistaking shadow for substance. if the detente we desire is eventually to exist. the united states and the west in general must continue to advocate forcefully through such mechanisms as radio free europe and radio liberty its belief in the right of all men to receive and impart information and ideas through any media and across any frontiers. to do less than this would be to abandon ideals we hold as absolutes and. in a very real sense. to acquiesce to the policies of thought control and censorship prevalent in the soviet union and eastern europe. from our vote yesterday. it is apparent that the senate will refuse to do so.
. abc news has made a significant contribution to the continuing debate on oil policy with a documentary entitled: "oil: the policy crisis." aired on march 20. this excellent piece of broadcast journalism gets right to the heart of the present controversy. outlining cleaxly the major decisions and actions which have led to todays shortages. it should be most helpful to all of us as we forge a new oil policy which hopefully will correct these past mistakes. i ask unanimous consent that the text of this broadcast be printed in the record.
. i am convinced that the full account of the mayaguez incident may  be available for many months and perhaps it may never be available in a form that will satisfy all interested parties. yet. it is still possible. even at this early date. to identify certain lessons we should learn from this incident. first. the evident inability to set up adequate communication channels between ourselves and the cambodians. either directly or indirectly. indicates the great dangers of lack of communications between belligerents under crisis conditions. while these dangers were narrowly circumscribed in the mayaguez incident. lack of ability to communicate intentions in an understandable and expeditious manner greatly increased the chances that force would be used to achieve some resolution of the crisis. second. the failure of the united states to provide adequate warning to u.s.-flag vessels and others of harassment by the cambodians of other vessels that had taken place prior to the seizure of the mayaguez indicates a further breakdown in communications. this time within our own communications network. there is evidently a need to strengthen our capacity to provide adequate warning of potential dangers of this nature on an immediate basis in potential or actual trouble spots. finally. the resort to force. whether or  it is justified. inevitably results in unforeseen and usually undesirable consequences. the sobering loss of life in the assault on koah tang island. and the subsequent revelation that the mayaguez crew had apparently left the island prior to the assault. is indicative of the costly. and imprecise nature of the use of force in achieving goals. limited or otherwise. exumxr i the white housn. washington. may 21. 19"75.
. this resolution would amend senate concurrent resolution 44. which established the joint committee on arrangements for commemoration of the bicentennial. to provide the committee with specific authority to make arrangements for visitors to the capitol this year. it grants the committee the power to enter into contracts for food. restroom. first aid. and informational facilities for visitors. and to accept for transmittal to the treasury whatever profits might be derived from such arrangements. this action is necessitated by the collapse of private efforts to provide these facilities. permission had been granted to an organization kn as the center for understanding media. of new york. to operation a visitors center on the land immediately west of the botanic gardens. unfortunately. the joint committee was advised at the end of january that they were unable to follow through with their plans due to lack of funds. the joint committee on arrangements for commemoration of the bicentennial felt that under the mandate of its establishing resolution it should step into the breach and attempt to offer a sufficient level of visitor services to permit the orderly operation of the congress and to provide the visitors with a worthwhile experience at the capitol. hearings by the committee prior to this decision had established that existing facilities were completely inadequate to cope with the anticipated 20 percent in visitors to the capitol this year. after consulting with the leadership of both houses. the committee proceeded to develop plans for providing these necessary services. the committee proposes to operate from a series of tastefully designed white and blue tents on the previously approved location. one tent. 65 feet in diameter will house food preparation and sales facilities. and four others each 40 feet in diameter will enclose picnic tables. additional picnic tables will be located under unubrella on the site. and on the patio of cxx--417part 6 the botanic gardens. a fourth 40foot tent will house an information center linked by telephone to the other government nformation centers in the city. the capitol historical society will also sell its publications from a portion of the tent. the plan also calls for portable restrooms. a firstaid facility. and bleachers for 1.000 persons to permit a holding operation as they wait for buses or tours of the capitol. entertainment will be provided periodically by visiting groups and performers from the festival of american folklife. upon passage of this resolution the committee will sign the necessary contracts for the visitors center. under the terms of the prepared contracts. the food concessionaire will pay the expense of paving the site. renting the food tents. and maintaining their portion of the site. they will also remove the paving once the site closes. the historical society will be asked to pay the rent for the information tent in return for being able to sell there. and the committee will rent the restrooms. first aid facilities. and bleachers directly. the center will be open from as early as possible in april to september 30. 7 days per week. 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. daily. the cost to the congress for the facility will be between $200.000 and $250.000. which includes both the cost of facilities and the personnel to operate them. the food concessionaire. marriott corp.. will invest nearly $1.2 million in the project. once marriott recovers its cost. profits will be shared with the committee on a 5050 basis. the committee initially had hopes of realizing substantial sums from this arrangement. but the delays that accompanied the final decisions as to whether the committee had authority to implement its plans or whether additional legislation would be needed. have all but eliminated that possibility. however. there is still a real possibility of the committee receiving in excess of $50.000 as its share of the profits. although the actual figure will be determined by the volume of food sales. any proceeds will be returned to the u.s. treasury. this entire project is a unique opportunity for the congress to provide muchneeded services to visitors while actually receiving a return on the moneys spent. if the resolution can be promptly passed. there is every possibility that the visitors area will be operational by early april. the alternative to the project is simply that there will be services for visitors to the capitol. the union station visitors center is  expected to be able to provide services until much later this year. and there are other visitor facilities on the capitol end of the mall. constituents will find place to eat. inadequate restroom facilities. long lines for the capitol tours. and a severe lack of information about the capitol area and bicentennial events generally.
. i wish to join my colleagues in paying tribute to my friend. john pastore. for 26 years in the senate. john has been a voice for integrity. equality. and commonsense. in this chamber his singular eloquence has forced the 99 other individuals to listen and to listen closely. often johns words were both persuasive and decisive. he made his point with wit and verve and dynamism. he will surely be missed. when one seeks information about a member of the congress. it is logical to look in the congressional directory. with typical modesty. john pastores biography is one of the shortest. but that succinct biography gives indication of the illustrious and meaningful legislative accomplishments of the senior senator from rhode island. as a member of the joint committee on atomic energy. john has worked long and hard to develop a sane nuclear policy for this nation and for the world. his own resolution led to the nuclear proliferation treaty. and many will long remember the great floor debate which led to its ratification. he also led the floor fight to ratify the nuclear test ban treaty and as a delegate to the united nations helped draft the resolution which established the international atomic energy agency. as chairman of the commerce committees subcommittee on communications since 1955. he has been responsible for most of the major legislation which has influenced the growth and development  only of radio and television broadcasting but also of interspace telecommunications and satellite communications. public broadcasting and common carriers. and he has carried his role of advocate for a strong communications network into the appropriations committee where among other things he fought for funding to insure a vital. provocative. and protected public broadcasting system. and i remember with great warmth the role which senator pastore played in many of the key civil rights battles of the 1960s. john pastore put his principles into action. fighting side by side with those of us who believe that inequality and injustice must be eradicated in this society before we are all truly free. i am certain that many of those battles would  have been won but for his clarity of vision and for his ability to share that *vision with us through his speeches. through his arguments. and through his persausive discussions with many members of this chamber. john pastore will be missed as an ally and as an advocate. but he can surely enjoy his wellearned rest in rhode is.and. for he. more than most. will leave a living monument to his articulate. vital presence in the senate. he will be missed but we and the nation are richer for the 26 years that he spent in the senate of the united states.
i do  agree with the gentlewoman on that. i do  think we are sending supplies over there. we did send some supplies to russia last year. which i thought was a mistake and we sent some to other satellite countries perhaps. i do  k whether we sent any to czechoslovakia or . but we must keep that cxchange of goods going. i have seen a great many figures on the exportation of goods to russia and to her satellite countries. i am  so sure i want to see electrical machinery. steel tubing. and material that will go into building war potentials sent over to thew unfriendly other countries.
. let me say that i have the deepest regard and highest respect for the gentleman who has offered this amendment. it so happens that within the hour i have had a telephone conversation with dr. merriam e. trytten. who is director of the office of scientific personnel. national research council. he asked me if i would explain to the members the situation that exists . it is a fact that from 1863. when they initiated this effort. they did a pretty good job. but he told me that approximately 3 years ago because of lack of funds and lack of personnel they had to limit themselves to maintaining a register only from the ph. d. level upward. that that is entirely unsatisfactory. and that they have information about the existence or qualifications of our younger scientists. who are the ones that we are after all trying to locate and assist. he asked me to say to you that the council  only does  oppose this provision. but that it hopes it will be kept in this bill. he says we will then have a working list which will be available  only to the government but to industry. to private research institutions. as well as to our universities and colleges. i assure you that i believe he is giving -us excellent advice. i wish he had called the gentleman from new york. i can assure the gentleman i am giving the exact message that he gave to us. i hope you maintain this list for our own security.
i want to add that this matter is  one confined entirely to the state of new york. i have received communications from perfectly reputable secondary schools whose students have gone to this college. they tell me it is an excellent college. a fine faculty. and i hope if there is any possibility of any alternatives the committee will explain what those alternatives are.
this matter was discussed briefly in committee and it was definitely brought out. as the gentleman from massachusetts indicated. that a radio station license. when up for renewal. took into consideration the radio station permitting libelous matter to go out.
. i have offered this amendment so that those of us who are getting sick and tired of wasting a lot of time on this matter every year will have a chance to dispose of it. and to dispose of it in a manner that is apparently agreeable to the great majority of the house. we have  had an opportunity to pass on this. however. in the past. i agree with the gentleman from maryland . who certainly is close to this situation. that the great majority of the people of the district of columbia want this. as everybody ks. nearly all the areas in this part of the country have daylightsaving time. in my opinion. the district of columbia clearly wants it. we are acting in the role of a city council in this matter. it seems to me the people of the district are entitled to have us respect their wishes. certainly there is great confusion. as everyone is aware. it exists in the radio and television schedules. with the railroads. the buses. and the airlines. with the bank clearances. and the stock market. and a hundred and one other ways. just let me review for a moment what has been going on since wartime daylightsaving time ended. in february 1947. a bill was reported out providing for a permanent system of daylightsaving time. it was amended to cover only that year. on the first vote. it was defeated. however. in april of that year. a bill covering that year. which was passed by the other body. was taken up by the house and passed by a vote of 218 to 145. that was in 1947. in 1948. a bill for a 1year extension passed by a vote of 204 to 92. in 1949. a similar bill passed by a vote of 223 to 130. in 1950. aher bill passed by a vote of 194 to 87. in 1951. aher bill passed by a vote of 278 to 116. in 1952. on a standing vote. a bill passed 127 to 59 on a division vote. previous to that. an amendment. such as the amendment we have just defeated. was rejected on a rollcall vote by 48 to 240. it seems to be about time that we. as responsible members of congress. should recognize how silly this makes us appear in wasting time having the members of our committee on the district of columbia put their time on this matter year after year after year. and  creating unnecessary and indefensible confusion. this amendment gives us an opportunity to get rid of this burdensome matter and to avoid all the arguments that are repeated year after year. hing new has been brought out today. hing new will be brought out in the future.
. you will recall that the bill to exempt producers of natural gas from federal regulation passed the house on july 28. 1955. by the narrowest of margins. prior to action here on the floor. there were other most significant votes. on june 7. a tie vote in the house committee on interstate and foreign commerce killed the bill temporarily. on june 8. this vote was reconsidered and the bill was approved by a vote of 16 to 15. the bill was reported on june 28. it was  until july 26 that the rules committee granted a rule for the consideration of the bill. the vote was 6 to 5. one member of that committee did  vote. the bill was debated and passed on a motion to recommit the bill lost by a vote of 203 to 210. the vote on final passage was 209 to 203. this vote came on thursday. congress adjourned the following tuesday. the extraordinary pressure and remarkable haste need elaboration. this proposal. as it passed the house. may be killed. it  seems more likely that it will go to conference in spite of the hope of the proponents of the bill. anyone who has followed developments as to this proposal as reported in the press. in magazines. and columns. and by radio and television ks how dangerous such a conference is in the minds of the proponents of the bill. a single brief quotation from an exceptionally wellinformed source. published here in washington late last week. emphasizes this. referring to the proponents hope of preventing any change in the bill as it passed the house. this comment is that any amendment would mean returning the bill to the house where it might run into trouble with elections coming up.  consequently. certain features of the proposal are worthy of renewed consideration by all members of the house in view of the probability that they will have aher opportunity to pass judgment upon the proposal when the conference report comes before us. with this in mind. i have undertaken to have some of the more important facts with reference to this proposal brought as far uptodate as possible. i had hoped to have some of this ready for presentation at this time but some further data is being prepared. i hope it will be available in the next few days. if so. i shall submit it in the form of one or more additional special orders.
. i ask unanimous consent to address the house for 1 minute. to revise and extend my remarks. and to include a newspaper article. a copy of a bill. a statement by the federal communications commission. and a statement in regard to the bill.
. on april 20. 1955. i filed h. r. 5471. i did this because of the number of complaints i had received as to the amount and kind of advertising on radio and television programs. the bill provided only that the federal communications commission shall. prescribe appropriate regulations. applicable to licensees. program sponsors. and others. to insure that. of the total amount of time available for any radio or television program. the proportion of such time which is devoted to advertising shall  be excessive. on july 20. 1955. the commission adopted what was entitled comments on h. r. 5471. i shall include the text of the bill and of these comments in my remarks. the commission admitted that "there have been. and are. abuses" in this matter. but it was of the opinion that "fixed rules by a government agency" would  solve the problem. however. with apparent satisfaction. it reported as to its exercise of its powers on renewing applications and expressed the desire to continue reliance upon this. it added the usual bureaucratic gobbledegook about "budgetary limitations." since then. through the correspondence i have received. the comments made to me. and the statements i have read in the press and elsewhere. plus my personal observations. i have been convinced that the problem has  been solved through the "cooperation of the industry through selfregulation and selfrestraint" on which the commission relied so heavily. rather. the abuses have increased to the point of stupidity. last night i read the article in the washington daily news of yesterday by james oneill. jr. it is well worth reading by each of us and i congratulate mr. oneill and the news on the forthright criticism made of an outstanding example of nauseating drivel and incredibly bad public relations exhibited in this one program. i am certain that mr. oneill would agree that abc is  the sole offender. -anyone who sees or listens to other radio and television programs can give countless examples of incessant and moos abuse of the listening and viewing public which is basically a combination of flagrant bad taste and arrogant indifference. those responsible for this seem to be completely unconcerned about the fact that they use the airwaves only by sufferance and that the public interest should be the major responsibility of the federal communications commission. i am sending mr. oneills article to the federal communications commission with a request for its comments and for a review of the position it took on h. r. 5471 on july 20 of last year. before including the full article by mr. oneill. i want to call your specific attention to certain excerpts. i do so because. through them. mr. oneill has portrayed so accurately and so vividly the reactions of a trained observer that i feel certain scores of thousands who have been forced to submit to this kind of abuse would adopt fully his comments as to this particular instance as being all too representative of other equally offensive handling of the privilege of using the airways. these excerpts are as follows: ive watched television botch things before. but never have i witnessed such ln indecent. irresponsible. and utterly stupid production in my life. one could have imagined. even in the most frightening flight of fancy. what the boywonders of the television industry could do to it. the cruel sea builds up to frequent dramatic heights. and to thoroughly demoralize its audience abc injected commercials of giveaway quiz shows. musical programs which leaned heavily on hillbilly talent. and sundry unsavory items. i counted 13 commercial breaks in an hour and 45 minutes. in order to get these "important messages" (thats televisionese for you "you can go to the icebox and get a drink  while we bla6 about how to smell better") some dramatic moments were sliced out of the picture by some clod who deserves to be drawn and quartered. each dramatic moment was cut short by an anncement to hear about someone called red foley. a hillbilly. or to watch some asinine comic give away money on a quiz show. there is better way in the world to turn composition into decomposition. to borrow a phrase from w. s. gilbert. than to allow it to fall into the hands of the morons in the television business. if these people have any conscience at all they will forego a few of their irritating commercials. they will insist the pictures be edited by someone reasonably literate. and will present the cruel sea in toto next time out. the full article follows: (from the washington daily news of january 18. 19561
the appropriation for the foreign broadcast intelligence service. amounting to half a million dollars. and the appropriation for the radio intelligence division. involving a million dollars. as i understand. the proposal before the senate will require that we act on both subjects at the same time. does the senator intend to afford us opportunity to act on each separately.
in the letter which the president wrote to speaker rayburn. the president suggested a total of $1.8 billion might be eliminated from the present budget. or postponed. i" think the senator has the same thought in his mind. that is practically the same as what the assistant to the president mentioned in his television remarks over the weekend. there is inconsistency at all about it. they seem to me completely in line with each other.
. both senators from new york are vitally interested in the passage of h.r. 8031. the allchannel television receiver bill. in light of their interest. they have asked me to present their statements for the record in support of this bill. i ask unanimous consent that their statements appear in the record during the debate on h.r. 8031.
. thousands of men and women in places throughout the world are devoting their lives to the task of bringing justice and understanding between people of different racial and ethnic backgrounds. some of these wise and good people have received wide recognition for their work. others have received moderate praise. some have gone unrecognized. one man has recently received belated recognition of his successful efforts to prevent a pogrom in the ukrainian city of chmelnyk during august 1919. he is the reverend dr. vladimir klodnycky. who was then a ukrainian artillery officer and who for the past 23 years has been pastor of the holy ascension church in newark. n.j. i ask unanimous consent to have inarticle from the bulletin of the ukrainian orthodox league of america. it is based on a radio freedom broadcast which was beamed throughout eastern europe. telling of the incident and of rev. klodnyckys efforts to pacify an aroused and hostile population. i wish to draw particular attention to the remarks of mr. joseph lichten at a bnai brith banquet held to ho reverend klodnycky for his heroism. and for his great service to the jewish people.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to amend the u.s. flag code. it is particularly appropriate that this bill should be introduced at this time. because today. june 14. is flag day. all over the country. the stars and stripes will fly from porches and in front yards. as citizens ho their nations flag. i am sure that it will- be flown by patriotic americans in alabama. as in every other state. but it will  fly from the top of the state capitol building in montgomery. during the civil rights march from selma to montgomery. many citizens were shocked to e on television that u.s. flag flew over the alabama state capitol. instead. the building was crowned by a confederate flag and an alabama state flag. the u.s. flag was relegated to a separate pole elsewhere on the capitol grounds. some sources inform me that the u.s. flag is flying below the state and confederate flags. this affront to our national flag prompted numerous letters to my office. urging corrective legislation. after some study. i am today introducing a bill to amend the u.s. flag code. which lists rules and customs pertaining to the display and use of the u.s. flag. the amendment provides that flag of a state or other political subdivision and flag or pennant of a society shall be flown or displayed unless it is flown or displayed with the u.s. flag. and reemphasizes that such flag may be placed above or to the right of the u.s. flag. this simple change will make it clear that the american people expect the stars and stripes to have the position of ho at all public gatherings and in all public places.
i am much obliged to the senator. i am sure the discussion will help the record. and everybodys understanding will be better. to have this explanation. it goes a good deal further than what i had in mind. what i was trying to get at. and i think the senator from georgia understood me and answered the question according to his information. was that i had understood that. in effect. our computer system was one which did  take these missiles that were on the way in. and then set the defense operation exactly according to the missiles course. but rather. that you had to preset your defensive system in a number of patterns which were fixed. and that all the computer did was select one of those patterns. the closest to the path of the incoming missile. . that was all my question was. am i correct in that. or .
& com.. vol. 74.  3. mayjune. 1969. at 3031. 34. mcveety. distaff centenary. hennepin lawyer. may. 1969. at 44. the ladies of hastings. hastings alumni. vol. 14.  1. april. 1969. haselmayer. supra e 3. see weeks v. southern bell telephone & telegraph company. 408 f. 2d 228 (5th cir. 1969). 9griffiths. the otulook for legislation affecting women. natl bus. woman. vol. s.  9. october. 1969. at 910.
. i wish to commend the initiative of a group of students in rutgers university law school who have compiled a series. of articles and published a book entitled "rutgers journal of computers and the law." i am told that the journal. published this spring. is the first of its kind. the journal is in the form of a forum for thd presentation of outstanding articles that treat subjects involving computers. automation. and the electronic data processing industry. in their interaction with the law and law making. such topics as computers in legal research. data processing. law office management. computer utilities. and time sharing are given extensive exposure. an article of particular interest to members of congress is entitled "congress: the three dimensional chessboard." written by robert l. chartrand. chartrarid points out ways in which. in the midst of todays information explosion. congress could effectively use computers to systemize data. july 27. 1970 cois o the systemization. chartrand explains. could be broken down into categories such as delineation of the problem. summaries of existing programs. related written commentary. and listing of legislation. computers are currently being used by the house committee on banking and currency. which reports that they are eitremely helpful to its work. the committee es that the use of computers has saved its members and staff a great deal of time and effort. it believes that as soon as members of congress become aware of the potential benefits of computers. computer usage will become widespread. the editors of the rutgers journal of computers and the law. who intend to publish similar -editions twice each year. deserve congratulations for an important contribution in a field too often neglected.
 to appoint all the councils directors and to whether the council should  come annually to congress for an authorization of its funds rather than only being required to request appropriations as the administration bill proposes. we shall need firm assurances that cia participation in the stations will be terminated. and. of course. we shall have to establish that money appropriated for the council is  to be passed on to any organization except radio free europe and radio liberty without congressional authorization. the council should  be used as a means of expanding government participation in the dissemination of information overseas. congressman ogden reid. republican. of new york. who introduced the original radio free europeradio liberty bill in the house of representatives. will also introduce the administration proposal in that body.
 nixons recommendation. identical legislation has been introduced in the house of representatives. the purpose of the measure is to restore the balance of forces in the middle east. without which peace is impossible. it will . when enacted. expand israels military capacity beyond that level. the full extent of israels losses still remains unkn. we do k that many jet aircraft and tanks were either destroyed or damaged during the conflict. personnel carriers. trucks. communications equipment. and other military items were damaged or destroyed. a u.s. military mission is  on the scene assessing the damage and estimating what must be replaced and what can be repaired. it is expected this mission will be reporting in a matter of days and it is my hope hearings can then be held by the senate foreign relations committee. all of us are emously encouraged by what appears to be progress in moving toward a peace settlement in the middle east. this does . however. take away the necessity of maintaining military balance in the area and insuring that israel can defend herself. indeed. maintenance of the balance is the essential condition for continuing progress in reaching a settlement. by mr. cook (for himself. mr. baker and mr. bartlett) :
. the office of techogy assessment recently completed its first full year of operations. in the months ahead. as ota issues its first reports in such critical areas of national concern as mass transportation. energy. and the development of the outer continental shelf. i think the value of this new congressional arm will become apparent to all my colleagues. while many in the congress and throughout the country have assisted in the formation of ota. i believe it should be recognized that the distinguished senator from massachusetts played a unique role in otas first and formative year. as the governing boards initial chairman. senator kennedy helped signally. i believe. to establish the principle of bipartisanship that is so essential to the success of an organization of otas nature. a similar appreciation of senator kennedys contribution was recently voiced by the conservative commentator. james j. kilpatrick. since one. least of all mr. kilpatrick. would describe mr. kilpatrick as an uncritical supporter of senator kennedy. his judgment in this matter can be considered to be as disinterested as it is outspoken. i ask unanimous consent that mr. kilpatricks broadcast commentary on the subject be printed in the record.
the request involves the state department authorization bill. and the sparkmancase amendment would involve stripping the bill to. the single title of provision for the information services. or broadcast services. so the rest of the state department authorization bill. if this amendment carries. would  be before the senate tomorrow.
i do  k either. about that. as far as senator sparkman and i are concerned. we saw some materialmay i have the attention of the staff director. senator sparkman and i saw 11 pieces of paper. was it 10. well. whatever it was. of which i think all but one were original documents. a letter or agyeement of some kind. one document was. i think. a single sheet or maybe two sheets of paper on which there were maybe three or four different paragraphs. each of which related to a specific different kind of assurance. it is that. i think. that the secretary was thinking about and in that he responded to our request. it was my understanding. and i am sure that i am correct about it. that that responded to our request that we be given  only written documents. but also any kind of statement contained in oral communications which represented either assurance or undertaking which the parties could properly say was an amendment to them to enter into this.
our statement covers that. i think. and i would be glad to repeat the statement. there were. in the first place. in those documentsand i think everyone understood that this was truecertain assurances that were given by egypt to us for communication to israel and certain communications given to us by israel for communication to egypt. these were excluded from concern by all of us by mutual consent. for the rest of it. the documents consisted. as i recall it. of several communications by the president. some to israel and. i think. some to egypt. that is about the sum and substance of their general nature.
iallyappointed board for international broadcasting. which assures that the broadcasts are consistent with broad u.s. foreign policy objectives.  only is the transmitter site in spain propagationally ideal for shortwave broadcasting to the u.s.s.r.. very few other countries are both technically and politically feasible. it has been estimated that relocationto an inferior sitewould take at least 3 years and cost upwards of $20 million. at our committee hearings on the spanish treaty. administration officials stated that they had conveyed to spanish authorities the american view that the continued availability of radio liberty facilities is a significant aspect of the broadening relationship between spain and the united states. in our report. the foreign relations committee reaffirmed this view with emphasis. i understand that the house committee on international relations. in its report on the bib authorization. similarly expressed the hope that: spain will continue to enable the united states to make use of the rl facilities as part of a common effort of the west to insure that the people of the soviet union continue to have access to information denied them by their own government. i think it is fair to observe that the votes in both houses on authorizations and appropriations for the board. since its creation. have demonstrated the broad partisan support for this important broadcasting effort. surely the present leaders of spain. as they move toward a more democratic system. should be especially aware of the importance to all europe of the free flow of information and ideasthe necessity of "constructive dialog with the peoples of the u.s.s.r." which radio liberty is committed to pursue under the board for international broadcasting act of 1973. it is an effort recognized as important  only to the united states but to the members of the th atlantic treaty organization. which spain will perhaps join some day. the th atlantic assembly. representing the parliamentarians of the alliance. has consistently expressed its firm support of rfe/rl broadcasts. although the radio liberty lease arrangements were  included in the package of agreements capped by this treaty. we would find it difficult to understand a failure  to renew an arrangement which has been beneficial to spain and remains vital to a broader cause of the west. it is my sincere hopewhich i am sure is shared by colleagues on both sides of the aislethat the coming negotiations in madrid will bring about a longterm renewal. we expect the board for international broadcasting. of course. to keep us informed of the progress of the negotiations.
i understand senator javrts wishes to make a point. and he will make it himself. of course. he did  want to talk about the line of telephone communications to the secretary of state which was available because it might be too public a matter. and as to that question i do  k the answer. it is  a verywell. he will speak for himself in due course on that point. but my point is that all of this does  justify the kind of action that was taken this morning. it could  have been inadvertent on the part of the senator who made this motion because he knew of my interest. it could  have been inadvertent on the part of the vice president  to get in touch with me because he knew of my interest. who elses interest is involved here except the interests of senator nelson. my own. and the members of the committee who voted as i did. . there is really- excuse for  revoking this action. as i said to my friend from south dakota he will accomplish hing in the way of substantive blocking of this action because it can be brought up as a privileged matter under the nelson amendment regardless of any action by the committee. but in the matter of preserving the decencies of life in this body. i ask unanimous consent that the action taken this morning be vacated.
. in 1973 abu daoud was sentenced to death by a military tribunal in amman. jordan. for his role in attempting to seize the premiership building there and hold hostage members of the jordanian cabinet. during his trial the military prosecutor questioned daoud at some length. the transcript of that interview was carried in arabic on jordanian radio. it was translated by the foreign broadcast information service. because the transcript is very revealing of mr. daouds role in a number of terrorist and paramilitary operations. i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record.
. senator harrison a. williams and i are introducing legislation today to amend the communications act of 1934 to provide each state with at least one vhf television station. new jersey and delaware are the only two states in the country without a vhf television station. this bill is designed to end the unfair and discriminatory situation that new jerseyites have been saddled with by the federal communications commission and the television broadcast media since we have petitioned the fcc time and time again to come up with an effective remedy for the lack of new jersey news coverage as well as other new jersey programing. the fcc has agreed that new jerseys news coverage is inadequate by the only "remedy" it has offered is to encourage the stations in new york and philadelphia to come up with their own voluntary plans for improving new jersey coverage. this has been tried before and it simply does  work. voluntary commitments on the part of many television stations in new york city and philadelphia are  carried out. this situation in which new jersey finds itself becomes less and less tolerable. an informed citizenry is essential to the solution of the many social. ecoic. and political problems new jersey faces. new jersey is the eighth most populated state in the country. the most densely populated. the most industrialized. and the third highest state in per capita income. newark. new jerseys largest city. is the largest city in the country without a vhf station. new jersey viewers constitute over 30 percent of the audience for the new york and philadelphia vhf stations. reallocation of a vhf license to new jersey is the sole prerogative of the federal communications commission. our bill would require the fcc to license a vhf station in every state. the bill is being introduced in the house by congressman maguire and congresswoman millicent fenwicf and 11 other members of the house delegation.
 of his annual message to the congress in joint sesr sion. but king the great fairness of the speaker. i judge he would want an expression of the house before exercising that authority. in a sense. we would really be using the scientific advance of television to expand the size of the gallery of the house. to which the people are today invited as the guests of the house. and make that gallery countrywide. i hope very much that members will feel that my suggestion. and i emphasize that it is a suggestion. is designed to make the individuals discharge of his duty more gratifying and productive. and that my suggestion will be considered in this light. i wish to emphasize. too. my profound regard for the speaker. and to pay a tribute to the great fairness with which his authority is exercised.
may i say that as a practical matter i do  think the television companies would do that. further. i think this. that there is something to the fact that you do  want a sping camera. you want a camera with a purpose to bring debates of importance to the people.
i had the statement of the secretary of agriculture in a debate on television with him and which quoted him as saying that the department of agriculture. and these are his words. "was created to take care of the interests of the farmer."
 full power to control televising and broadcasting of the house sessions to be sure that it is  done with a sping camera seeking to embarrass. rather it is a means for extending the house gallery to include the whole country. those who have been deeply disturbed by the fact that 40 percent of americans chronically do  vote despite the present crisis for democracy. have their answer in awakening the interest of our people in government by making them a part of it as tv is doing in new york today.
. let us understand what this resolution is. the russian people are  only kept enslaved by a dictatorship. but they are kept enslaved by fear constantly dinned into their ears over the radio and from various sources that somehow or other the "imperialists." and that is always pictured by the communist propagandists to include the united states. will attack and enslave them. it is pointed out to them by the same poisos propaganda that after world war i there was an allied force which actually went into russia and occupied some of its territory without in any way explaining the situation of that time. the resolution before us is an effort to assure the russian people as to their own security and as to their personal safety. and as such. it is tremendously valuable because it is so true. the united states wants to win in this situation with the weapons of peace and it can do so only if it gets across the truth of its peaceful intentions. this we must do with the peoples of the free world. but also with the russian and satellite peoples. this resolution is an opportunity for doing so. i hope the resolution will pass unanimously.
i am very glad to see the gentleman entering into this situation. i do  wish to express a judgment with respect to the political motives involved. we all love the speaker. and i use that term advisedly. that is something the gentleman himself will deal with. i am interested though in the major question. i want to compliment the gentleman on his taking the cudgels for opening the doors for committee hearings. and i hope the gentleman will extend his view to the important debates of the congress. i would like. . if i may. to ask the gentleman two questions. first: does  the gentleman feel that the public has its right to have modern science expand the walls of this chamber so that they can see and hear on the television and the radio the important debates of this body.
i thank the gentleman. and may i ask him this further question which relates to a specific point. and that is: does  the gentleman feel that if his resolution should carry and the will of the house should be expressed that committee hearings can be opened up to television and radio. it would be necessary to promulgate a code for the protection of witnesses. and although i do  k if the gentleman is a lawyer. although i believe he is. that it is very essential to protect witnesses. and that the indiscriminate use of television and radio could very easily in many cases work out to invade individual rights.
i never had in mind any code which would prescribe legal rules of evidence. that would obviously invalidate many wonderful congressional investigations. and make impossible the obtaining of statements from witnesses. but does  the gentleman feel we should erect some guideposts for the committees. for example. if a witness is obviously unable to be at ease or to do himself justice under the probing of the television camera. and if it should appear in a particular case that charges are made which are entitled to refutation. charges which receive very. very wide currency over the television and radio. that then an opportunity should be afforded in some fashion to refute those charges by those whom they are made against.
 of the advertising council of america. the chairman of the radio advisory committee is justin miller. chairman of the board of the national association of radio and television broadcasters. and the committee includes among its members charles a. denny. executive vice presidelft of the national broadcasting co.. also of my own city.
ial election of 1948 to 62.5 percent in 1952. i believe that television and radio had a lot to do with creating so much interest in the candidates and in voting. but voting in congressional elections is still much below what it ought to be. there is still a long way to go in national elections in comparison with the record of voting participation in great britain. italy. belgium. and other countries which exceeds 80 percent. the stimulation of a direct personal interest in government which can be attained through television and broadcasting can have a material influence in this regard. i hope very much we will resolve this question in this session. and finally make vital debates and proceedings available to be seen in most american living rooms.
i heard. with great interest. the gentleman from new york on the question of socalled compulsory licensing. but. is it  a fact that the courts. themselves. have. when they saw a mooly. enforced compulsory licensing. and if memory serves me. that is true in the field of radio tubes. therefore. it is  such a horrible proposition. but it 4s used where they run into a situation which is conducive to mooly such as this one.
. i present. for appropriate reference. and ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record. a resolution adopted by the board of supervisors of montgomery county. n. y.. protesting against the removal of channel 6 from television station wrgb.
. in the press in washington today and in the press in new york we have two widely divergent stories on what is happening in the latest chapter in egypts propaganda against the united states. the washington post says in its headline. "egypts press says united states plot stirs revolts. the new york times headline is "new cairo drive aims at refugees." we are told by the egyptian press of secret negotiations between iraq. jordan. and israel. with the united states in the alleged role -of mediator- to resettle in iraq the approximately 500.000 palestine arab refugees  in jordan. this is called an american plot. the facts of the situation are that the propaganda datelined cairo. and emanating from the governmentcontrolled egyptian radio and press. deals -with the very lives of 922.000 palestine arab refugees. i wish to dence this as false propaganda and it is exposed by the new york times. it is dangerous propaganda. too. it plays with the misery ef human beings. -and holds back again the solution of this vexing problem of ce palestine arab refugees. such malicious irresponsibility must be promptly and unhesitatingly exposed. it must be well kn to colonel nasser and his propagandists that rigts -and bloodshed among the palestine arab refugeeswhich have occurred beforeare the only likely outcome of such false propaganda. the time is ripe for the united states to spark a major drive in the lmiddte east for the xesettlement -of th palestine arab refugees. including implemmntation of the johnston plan fur the development of the jordan river "valey. but this -would be done in the open. with full consultation of all parties and assurances of israels contribution toward resettlement. cii--635 the palestine arab tefrgees remain one of the most nettling problems standing in the way of some affirmative progress toward permanent peaoe and regional coopernion in the middle east. it is my conviation that for some time egypts colonel nasser has been the principal advocate of continuing to use these 922.000 unhappy human beings as the main unsettling factor in the middle east by blozking e2orts to resettle them in arab lands. i have made inquiries here into this matter. i state again that i can find substance to the cairo story i have referred to. i hope this irresponsible propagandamaliciously falsewill backfire even in the troubled near east. and show the palestine arab refugees that the arab states otler than egyptvhioh. in my opinion. is in effect doing the soviet unions work in that area of the worldand that the other nations. including our own. who contribute so -generously to the unrwa for palestine arab refugees. k how egsential is resettlement of the palestine arab tefugees on the highest priority. i ask unanimous consent that the two news stories to which i have referred may be printed in the record as a part .of my remarks.
. in the course of a television debate last tuesday the question arose as to my taking a position in new york which was allegedly different from a position i had taken in washington. i think this incident so very clearly illustrates my position on this measure that i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point as a part of my remarks a news release issued from my office on the question of the sharkeybrownisaacs bill against discrimination in housing. pending before the city council of the city of new york. the release is dated july 8. 1957.
. anncement was made yesterday of the signing of a united statessoviet agreement providing for cultural. technical. educational. and sports exchanges between the soviet union and the united states and for exchanges in radio. tv. and film. subject to reciprocal veto. this agreement is tangible recognition of the basic fact that peace between nations must be firmly based upon understanding between peoples. if i may have the attention of the distinguished majority leader. who is present on the floor. i should like to compliment him and applaud his initiative in having originally suggested the mutuality of broadcast exchange between the united states and the soviet union and upon the occasion of the famous cbs telecast last year. i feel that kind of action. and the actions of others of us who have been working in this field. are a proper basis for what is needed. i have mentioned this before. and my reason for calling the attention of the majority leader to it  is that i think he is entitled to hear our thanks for what he did. and i express the hope that we in the congress may also make our contributions in this matter. i have a resolution relative to the subject pending before the committee on foreign relations. i imagine there are other resolutions to the same effect. all with the purpose of having affirmative action taken in regard to what has been done in the executive department. in addition to the statement of the distinguished majority leader on policy. it seems to me that if we think through how we in the congress can have our weight and our authority and prestige in this field of world peace. directly leveled at the issues which involve us and the russian people. it will be most helpful. i respectfully lay this matter before the majority leader. king his views on the subject only too well. and calling it to his attention.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record excerpts from the transcript of a radio documentary produced by the public affairs department of the columbia broadcasting system and broadcast over that network april 21. 1958. narrated by edward r. murrow. it was called who killed michael farmer. and concerned a young boy who was the victim of a juvenile delinquency crime in my home city which aroused great interest.
. rather than a huge influx of immigrants serving as a population buildup. which. it has been alleged. would constitute a threat to israels neighbors. the fact is that israels immigration is at one of the lowest levels which that state has experienced since it first gained independence 10 years ago. second. a very important point is that these immigrants are  culled. as has been alleged. from lands where jews do  live under social and ecoic pressures. but. rather. the overwhelming preponderance comes from within the sovietbloc satellite nations of eastern europe. where jews are under tremendous pressure. and from countries around the mediterranean and in th africa. and also iran. where the situation is made extremely difficult. indeed. for jews. on this basis. israel remains the home for the oppressed and persecuted. the very purpose for which it was originally founded. i think the article is exceptionally important in respect of what is  taking place in that small country. which has proved to be one of the most dependable bastions of freedom in one of the most troubled and dangerous areas of the whole world.
. i should like to ask the chairman of the subcommittee some questions about civil defense. i might say that this bill was called up without a quorum call. i was as far away from the senate chamber as a telephone in the reception room. had i  returned . i would  have kn that the bill was being considered.
will the senator define "news documentary". i ask this question solely in order that the legislative record may be clear. what is the difference between a news documentary and a television panel show.
let me cite a specific situation: when the senate was debating the civil rights bill in 1957. in the course of the debate. four of us left the senate chamber. and went into the old supreme court chamber. and there broadcast a television show in which. in effect. we repeated the arguments we had been making here on the floor of the senate. that is what we lawyers call part of the res gestae. at that very moment. the senate was actually engaged in debate. here on the floor. on the civil rights bill. and a few minutes earlier on that day. the four senators who participated in that television show had been on the floor of the senate. and had been participating in the actual debate on that bill. but momentarily we left the floor of the senate. went to the old supreme court chamber. and did that television show. or individual senators might leave a conference committee room. and might do a show on the front steps of the capitol building. would such things constitute news documentaries.
. i k that so very early in the session we do  generally deal with matters of moment. however. i believe my colleagues will indulge me for calling attention to one situationnamely. the most regrettable and deeply tragic outbreak of antisemitic and pronazi manifestations in west germany on christmas eve. and the rash of similar demonstrations and anticatholic incidents which have spread to more than a dozen western countries in the succeeding weeks. certainly they warrant our grave concern. they warrant our severest condemnation. and that of civilized men and women everywhere. the significance of the paint smears and scurrility that have marred the walls of synagogues and churches can be minimized only at our peril. they mean that enclaves of totalitarian danger of the extremist right continue to persist here in the free world. waiting to take advantage of any complacency. news reports indicate that ultrarightwing elements are responsible for these outbreaks. and that their acts represent a kind of probing operation to test the worlds reaction. a genuine. widespread expression of public indignation would make clear that we in this day and age will  tolerate the malignant evil of bigotry and prejudice. at the same time. we should extend every support to the german federal republic. under chancellor adenauer. in its efforts to uproot antisemitism and punish the hoodlums responsible for defacing the bonn governments name. especially western europe can show  support for and confidence in chancellor adenauers determination to establish a new road of interfaith understanding for the german people and of free institutions which can tolerate neonazism. in this connection. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the conaressional record editorials from the new york times. the new york herald tribune. the new york post. the washington post. and the long island daily press. commenting on this problem. i hope that the example set by these splendid editorials will be emulated by public officials. radio and tv commentators. news analysts. and others. and that all of us will express with the utmost vigor our condemnation of these vicious antisemitic and anticatholic excesses.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point in my remarks two articles from the new york times of today. describing the magnificent gift made to syracuse university by mr. samuel i. newhouse. a leading american newspaper publisher and the owner of radio and tv stations. who himself was the son of a russian immigrant family.
i certainly do . i said. in addition. that i believed my party. in the tradition of lincoln. ought to be the hard core of the votes which would pass such a measure. i said it because i believe politics is the stuff of life. as i said to a very distinguished newspaper man from the south the other day on a television program. "why should people elect you. because you have a pleasant face. in my case i can even claim a hairline. but it is because you espouse positions in which the people believe. that is politics." what is wrong with what we are doing. what is wrong with what the senator is doing. i have  assailed any senator from the south on the ground that he is seeking votes. that is what senators are here for. they are here to do the job the people want done. and when they are here to do something else. in terms of principle. they are here for the purpose of "selling" the people their point of view. what i object to is that we are charged with some base motives.
. the importance of an informed public opinion in all the countries of the free world is emphasized by the recent collapse of summit talks in paris. in this process of getting the facts to the people of all the countries. including those behind the iron curtain. radio is an indispensable instrument. shortwave radio particularly makes possible intercontinental communication. by this means there is an exchange between our people and those of the rest of the world on points of view. approaches to international problems and also their cultures and characters. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record an article which emphasizes the importance of listening to worldwide shortwave broadcasts. entitled "how to tune in on the world." by arthur settel. which appeared in pageant magazine for may. 1960.
if the senator will permit me to continue. since i have only 2 minutes. and i wish to make this point clear. first. i ask unanimous consent that various articles published in the new york herald tribune. the baltimore sun. and excerpts from my own television broadcast of may 22 be introduced at this point in the record.
some senators who live close to the capitol have a problem which i wish to bring to the attention of the committee. the problem has to do with the interchangeability. if any. between telephone and telegraph allowances. a substantial amount of my telegraph allowance is unusued. but i often have a shortage in my telephone allowance. may i ask the senator to have a study of that question made.
i support the senator from rhode island and join with the senator from oklahoma in expressing my support of the resolution. i call attention to one point. namely. the public stake in the matter. there is more searching medium than television for finding out the point of view of a man and for plumbing his character. this the public has learned. i think that by making it simple for the networks to provide this kind of exposure. the public interest will be best served. moreover. it will take some of the terrible strain of financing campaigns off the backs of the candidates. one of our worries is that so much money is required for the purpose of campaigning. we do  k what. by implication. a candidate may be undertaking when he must raise large sums of money. i give the senator from rhode island this factual backing for the joint resolution. i had a debate at the academy of television arts and sciences with ial candidate than to have an exposure on television.
. first i wish to compliment the senator upon his speech as it relates to the fundamental issue of communication. we are spending too little money. we are  acting vigorously and effectively egh. commensurate with the problem. we have a blueprint for action to implement the suggestions of the distinguished senator from minnesota by a distinguished leader in the communications field. general sarf. the head of rca. who for years has been urging that we spend as much as $3 billion a year. that amount of money will be required to do the job in terms of communications and getting the truth and our point of view across to the peoples of the world. i think what the senator is saying  bears out the effort which was made on this floor about 3 years ago by the senator from minnesota and myself and others when we were up in arms about tearing to shreds the usia. while we are talking about what the congress should and should  do. and before we go overboard on any theory that our foreign policy must be conducted by congress. which can be done. let us  forget that we have an opportunity to do something very effective when it comes to the financing of the usia.
. before the discussion on space is terminated. i should like to join with other senators in the suggestion that the voice of the distinguished senior senator from hawaii be broadcast to the world. i can think of few things which would be more revealing to the world as to the splendor of our free society than to have his voice. with his background. he coming from the newest state in the union. broadcast to all the world. i hope that will happen.
. during the "leading question" broadcast of friday. august 12. 1960. on which i appeared with the senator from pennsylvania a statement made by me regarding the vote in the senate last week when the greatest part of the majority voted to table even a minimal civil rights bill at this time has led to a misunderstanding which i wish to clear up immediately. to set the record straight. four democrats voted with an overwhelming majority of republicans on tuesday. august 9. against a motion to table the extremely moderate civil rights legislation introduced by the miity leader. the senator from illis . those democrats were senators paul douglas. philip hart. pat mcnamara. and wayne morse. they have long been associated with the cause of civil rights and their support was most welcome. coming as it did at a time when many of their democratic colleagues who mally join forces with us on civil rights did  vote with us on this occasion. a constituent of the senator from illis heard the "leading question" broadcast and understood me to say that the senator from illis had cast his vote for the tabling motion. when. in fact. he did exactly the opposite. along with the three other democratic senators ed earlier. the senator from illis has a consistent and courageous record on civil rights. during his very first year in this body he joined in the fight to invoke cloture during the filibuster against the fepc bill. and he has been very active in a leadership position in that fight ever since. it would be exceedingly unfair to the senator from illis to allow any such misunderstanding as i apparently created. quite unwittingly. to remain of record. therefore i have hastened at the earliest moment to make perfectly clear to his constituents the unimpaired record which he has always had upon this question. carried out with full consistency by his vote a week ago today.
on the other hand. we have found that in instances in which administrative agencies have the power to fine. they are very likelyunlike the courtsto impose. immediately. the maximum amount. and to consider that to be the rule which they must observe. the small radio stations. the small ruthemine stations in the smaller places. may have incomes of $20.000 a year. hence. a fine of $1.000 a day could be a crushing burden. and i believe that cruel and inhuman punishments. even for acts which we consider very immoral and against the public interest. are to be avoided. what i should like to suggest. in all good conscience and. i hope. in accordance with the views of the committee. is that we recognize that in this situation there are a number of outfits which simply do  have a great deal of money. and that. therefore. we would expect that the agency would  simply use the maximum amount as its standard rule.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a biographical statement in regard to the confirmation of the ination of edward r. murrow. yesterday i appeared in respect to this ination before the foreign relations committee. mr. murrow is a very distinguished new yorker. and is one of the outstanding commentators and producers on radio and television. therefore. i wish to have printed in the record an appropriate statement in respect to the confirmation of his ination.
i want to be sure that the administrator will  help areas which are well able to help themselves. and should  seek an extension of television media where they can be better supplied through local and even governmental sources.
i should like to give the senator an example from my own state. a very distinguished group of new yorkers is bidding  for station wntatv in new york. entirely on the basis of public service. to make it an educational television station. in this connection i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record press reports dealing with this subject.
it would be pointless to think of the pending bill as supplementing any such effort. it would  be pointless. however. with respect to depressed areas. which will be helped by the depressedareas bill. where localities. even in my home state of new york. may  be able to help themselves. and the united states could help with very fine programs which will be going over station wnta. if that station should become an educational television station or programs over wpix. and could send those programs into some areas which could otherwise  be serviced. is that what the senator has in mind.
i was upstairs doing a television and radio show. and i missed the proceedings. i should like to ask the senator a question. i understand the senate gave up on the provision in the bill which would have given a community help if it were harmed by imports. is that correct.
i happened to be going to the telephone when the senator was speaking about the gover of my state of new york. i took occasion to get a copy of the text of the govers speech in order to read it. i should like to make two observations. if the senator. with his usual courtesy. will permit me to do so.
madam president. considerable debate is taking place in the new york area about the utilization of channel 13. the wntatv channel. which emanates from newark. n.j.. but covers the whole metropolitan area. and is  proposed to be taken over by a citizens group. which contemplates that it shall be essentially an educational television station. this proposal is opposed by the gover of new jersey. who has written to me. and i suppose to others. as follows: if new jersey channel 13 is made available to an educational group interested in locating the headquarters of operation in new york city. new jersey would be the only state. territory. or possession to be denied full utilization of this important communication medium for community interest needs. the govers letter is dated july 7. the new york times of today. july 11. 1961. has published an editorial entitled "tv ks boundaries." i ask unanimous consent that the editorial be printed at this point in the record.
i commend my colleague for his speech. i k that senators are inclined to discount it as local propaganda. but it would be really most unfair to what is being presented. my colleague has presented  a local but a national issue. because this is the one chance to have a really big educational television outlet financed  by the government but by private means. i. too. have communicated with the federal communications commission and with gover meyner. my colleague and i have the same reaction in giving this point of view. i should like to add. to the wonderful presentation my colleague has made. the statement that the group which is seeking to acquire the station. which is a profit group for educational purposes. has offered gover meyner anything he could legitimately ask for in the way of new jersey programs. there is desire to make the station appear to be anything other than a new jersey station. although as a practical matter it has  been that. it has covered new jersey only to a lesser rather than a greater extent. second. the statement has been made that gover meyner would become the first gover to get within his state the greatest expression of educational television in the whole united states. which is far more important than aher television channel. of which we k there are so many. i think this is a national issue. and a basic one. i am delighted that my colleague has taken it up in such a serious way. i hope very much that his words and mine. and those of others. will be listened to by gover meyner and by the regulatory authorities.
. the hearings recently concluded by the subcommittee on mooly of the senate select committee on small business have demonstrated the extraordinary scientific and commercial potentialities of this new miracle of intercontinental communications. there is every indication that such a satellite will  only have a revolutionary impact upon world communications but also upon many other aspects of our lives. the roles which private industry and government will play in this new field are presently being explored. and still to come are the problems involving the parts which other nations will take. some aspects of the promise which communications satellites hold for this country and our endeavor to establish greater understanding among the peoples of the world so that they may live in peace with each other are presented by gen. david sarf. chairman of the board of radio corp. of america. i ask unanimous consent to include with my remarks in the record his article entitled "a look ahead." which appeared in the quarterly publication. electronic age. summer 1961.
. i certainly appreciate the assurances given by the senator from arkansas with respect to what could be done by means of supplemental or deficiency bills. and so forth. regardless of the outcome of the vote on this amendment. i hope very much that that action will  be considered as having been taken in light of those assurances. and will  in any way prejudice the case of the agency. i would be less than honest to myself and less than true to my principles if i did  point out that this situation is merely symptomatic of the way in which we handle the u.s. information agency. we take the position that it is proper for us to reduce its program. and then see what the effect may be. and that if later it is found that the reduction was a mistake. we can then increase the program and can then provide more money to the agency. but we must consider the question of whether that is the proper procedure to follow in connection with this important activity in an area which is critically important to the united states. in other words. is that the proper course. or will it only add to the problem which  exists. in that connection. i refer to the 1957 example. to which the senator from kentucky referred. i point out that when the agency is handled in his wayreduced in size. and later increased in size. if that is found necessary. in an effort to recoupgreat harm is done. for example. this agency had an opportunity to spend $3 million for a liberia radio outlet. which would have been indispensable and would have been of the greatest possible value to the program. but the usia missed the boat in that connection because the necessary $3 million was denied it. when the agency came before the committee. it said: forget about that. the fact that we missed the boat means that we are out of the liberia venture and we have lost the opportunity to make an offensive strike in the cold war. such most unfortunate and harmful results follow the kind of policy we have constantly followed in dealing with this agency. and on page 557 of the committee hearings that story is set forth. so the question is. how are we to compete by means of propaganda activities in the cold war. in view of the very great competition with which we are faced. if we are to proceed in that wayso different from the way in which we have proceeded in connection with the state department activities and military preparations and even ecoic preparations. this is really the forgotten third branch of our effort. and if it fails. it may bring about the complete undoing of the others. so i hope very much the senate will show its determination in this connection. by doing this tiny thing. in order to back this agency to the hilt and demonstrate its determination to change past tactics with respect to our activities in this entire propaganda field.
the statement which was telephoned to my office by the national broadcasting co. reads as follows: jack paar has informed nbc by telephone from berlin today that the taping of his television show in west berlin took place with the full cooperation and permission of the u.s. army. mr. paar explained that the presence of more than the mal complement of men and equipment arose from the fact that at the time he taped his program. the guard was being changed. both the group being relieved and the new group assuming duty were on hand. and the taping attracted other military personnel who came out of curiosity. at the conclusion of the taping. paar informed nbc. he was thanked by the officers in charge for the manner in which he handled the presentation and particularly for including closeup views of a number of the men on duty so that their families can see them when the tape is presented next tuesday night. paar states to nbc that one of the officers in charge thanked him for making available to the american public an informative and moving view of the berlin situation as it affects the men on duty today. that is the end of the statement from the broadcasting company.
i thank my colleague for his courtesy. . nathan straus lived a dedicated life in the public interest. he was among the first. if  the first. to inaugurate the concept of editorials for radio and television stations. he was a man of outstanding courage in terms of his convictions. though i had occasion to disagree with him sometimes in a political sensemore often. i would say. than  i would agree with him on great political issueshe was always stimulating. always thoughtful. always highly patriotic and dedicated to the best interests of our country. as a man. he was kind. gracious. accommodating. and cooperative. he lent himself to many outstandingly fine causes in the city and state of new york. he is entitled to high hos from all of us in new york and in the united states. it is my privilege this morning to pay this tribute to so fine a man. so outstanding a leader. so devoted a public servant in the very best sense. and to offer my condolences and deepest sympathy to mrs. helen sachs straus. his widow. to his sons. his brother. and other members of his family. who i hope may take some comfort from the high esteem in which he was held and the high place he earned in the activities and councils of our city. state. and nation.
. i believe my colleagues will be very pleased to hear that ruth hagy. whose famous awardwinning television show. "college news conference." off the air since last ember. has  formed her own production company. ruth hagy productions. inc.. and will bring "college news conference" back to television. beginning in late october. the program will be carried over 58 stations of the national educational television and radio center network. plus the two television stations of metro media. inc.. in washington and new yorkchannel 5. "college news conference" has won a peabody award for public service and has been cited by numerous civic and youth organizations throughout the nation as an outstanding television program in the public affairs field. when it was dropped last year from television after a successful run of 9 years. many of its loyal followers and many newspapers. student organizations and youth groups were dismayed. students throughout the nation signed petitions urging that the show remain on the air. it is therefore gratifying to learn that "college news conference" will return to television. i ask unanimous consent that a statement by the national educational television and radio center be printed at this point in my remarks.
. i ask unanimous consent that at the next printing of the joint resolution (s.j. res. 196) to amend section 315(a) of the federal communications act of 1934. the name of the senator from pennsylvania may be added as a cosponsor.
. on june 24. ed sullivan celebrates his 14th anniversary in television. i would like to take this opportunity to call to the attention of my colleagues the contributions he has made to the american cultural scene. since the beginning of television. ed sullivan has played an important part in the development of television as a medium of entertainment and of a broader kledge of the art and culture of all mankind for the entire family. his shows have largely originated from new york city. his program has been presented at a time when the family is together. and he has always been extremely careful to select performers and present entertainment from the united states and from many lands that is suitable for people of all ages. the 14 years that he has appeared on televisiona period said to be longer than any other performer on an entertainment programattests to the esteem of the american public. ed sullivan has made an excellent impression for the united states abroad through his cooperation with the u.s. state department in presenting his show in the soviet union. he has traveled hundreds of thousands of miles to places like brussels. alaska. ireland. portugal. japan. and west berlin with performers and has presented programs in those countries which have reflected credit on our country. ed sullivans show has brought the best of every foreign countrys entertainment to the people of this country. it was the first television program to present the sadlers wells ballet company from england and the moiseyev dance company from the soviet union. he has brought excerpts from the best of broadways productions to people who do  have the opportunity to see them soon after they have opened. in this period of televisions "vast wastelands." ed sullivan has consistently presented a program that certainly can be included in this generalization. many of the cultural achievements of our country and our most prominent artists have been seen and heard by his estimated weekly audience of 40 million people. his program has also been an incentive to the young of talent throughout the world. because of his interest in giving young performers earned opportunities. the offstage ed sullivan is a credit to his profession. cause is too small to receive his help. his generosity is well kn to every charitable organization. i am proud to pay this deserving tribute to my friend and native new yorker ed sullivan on the occasion of his 14th anniversary on television for his important contributions to his two professions--columnist and tv starto the television industry and to the nation. i ask unanimous consent that a biography of ed sullivan. prepared by the columbia broadcasting system tv network. be inserted in the record at this point.
. the calculations presented by mr. a. kutt. of the assembly of captive european nations. have been a matter of public discussion over the past 3 years. the first analyst to investigate this problem was an ecoist of the rand corp.. dr. horst mendershausen. in the review of ecoics and statisticsharvardmay 1959. since then. the discussion has been gaining in momentum. the evidence submitted in this and previous reports. through the comparison of pricesmore accurately. unit valuesin russias intrabloc commodity transactions with its trade in the world market. has  to date been challenged by the competent authorities in the u.s.s.r. while the evidence is for the most part indirect and incomplete. it nevertheless adds up to a convincing case of soviet price discrimination against its weaker trade partners within the communist alliance. given the nature of the east european political leadership. it is unlikely that the available statistical evidence will be confirmed anytime in the near future by the victims of this particular bit of commercial exploitation. the yugoslav government did complain of extreme price discrimination at the hands of the u.s.s.r. after their political break in the soviet union enjoys a position of preponderant power within the communist bloc. and has never shown any hesitation to use its advantage. either in the ecoic or political sphere. to the hilt. over the years. it has encouraged the satellites to build up large units of heavy industry. almost entirely on the basis of soviet raw materials. such as: crude oil. coal. coke. petroleum products. iron ore. manganese ore. chrome ore. raw cotton. steel sheets and plates. and so forth. as a result. the satellite nations are dependent to the extent of some 80 to 100 percent on soviet imports in these spheres of production. the unequal position of the satellite nations relative to the u.s.s.r. in the degree of dependence on each others trade may be seen from figures which i ask unanimous consent to have inserted in the record at this point.
. i should like to bring to the attention of my colleagues an editorial which appeared in the washington post of july 12. 1962. in connection with the hearings  being conducted by the communications subcommittee of the senate commerce committee on various measures to suspend the equaltime requirement of section 315 of the communications act. among the measures being considered is senate joint resolution 196. introduced by myself and the senator from pennsylvania . which calls for continuing. for the period of the 1962 congressional campaign. the experiment begun with the kennedynixon debates of 1960. the editorial squarely supports the principle behind this measure. that the benefits of continuing the experiment in public information clearly outweigh whatever risks may be involved. i ask unanimous consent that the editorial be printed in the record at this point in my remarks.
i. too. wish to associate myself with the statement of the senator from vermont and to add two points. first. the bill is a landmark in its recognition of private enterprise participation in foreign aid. it makes provision for participation by the committee on commerce in the alliance for progress. this is the first such recognition that this type of activity has had. second. with respect to the muchdebated question of yugoslavia and poland. it is my firm opinion that the country does  want to tie the hands of the president in dealing with those countries while there still remains some chance of their becoming independent. whether gomulka is khrushchevs personal slave or and we all believe he isi believe. because i have been in poland. as have other people from this country. that there is some residual spark of independence. when we consider that the cost of this program is mi. as compared with what it would cost. if there were a blowup of this situation. to beat the soviet union. except by this means of undermining support in its own satellite country. one day. it seems to me the conferees had other choice. i k how the senator from vermont feels about the report. i pay tribute to him for subordinating even his own strong views in order to give the president the freedom of action which i think is indispensable to our success in the cold war.
exactly so. and i should like to identify myself with that part of the argument of the senator from illis. i wish to point out that if the senate once gets into the habit of avoiding a particular issue as one with which it does  wish to come to grips when there is extended debate. then that procedure will extend into every other field. as was complained earlier today by the senator from colorado and the senator from rhode island. once we do  use the tools we have to close debate and bring a matter to a voteregardless of what may be the reason for refusing to use the tools available to usin this case. of course. the civil rights reasonthey die and fail because of disuse. and. as has been demonstrated. then they are longer available. even when there is an overwhelming desire among the great majority to use them and when the national interest indicates that they should be used. i join the senator from illis in making the point that. somehow or other. many members take a different attitude toward civil rights measures. as compared with othersperhaps because of the position taken by powerful senators who have been members of this body for a long time. or perhaps because of their deep views on the social questions involved. i wish to sayand i k the senator from illis feels exactly as i dothat we will use every precedent which was established here in connection with the debate on taking up the satellite communications system bill to buttress our arguments either in favor of changing the rules or in favor of invoking cloture in connection with the consideration of civil rights measures. i repeat that the day when the senate invokes cloture on a civil rights measure will be the day when the senate will strike from itself the shackles which  enable a miity to run the business of the senate. and therefore to run the business of the country.
. i think the senate ought to catch up with the times and. in selected cases. when it is appropriate in the judgment of the committee on rules and administration. permit the proceedings to be covered  only by the distinguished and most able services of the members of the press gallery but also by the radio broadcasts and television cameras themselves. so that we may come "live" to the people of the united states.
in the first place. i agree with the senator from minnesota about making public the presidents findings and communications to the committees. i am glad my colleague. the senator from new york has proposed that it be done. i think this is exactly what we would do. anyway. i think it is entirely proper that the case should be made very clear on the merits. i have been in poland. i have also been in discussion with the appropriations committee on this subject. i would add to what has already been said one further point: in my own view. from my own observation. the people of poland value the fact that the law states the president may do so. because that differentiates them from the russians. which is very much to our interest. whether we act or do  act. as my colleague has said. it is very hard to see how the president. under this definition. could act at all. but the mere fact that the poles are identified as being in aher category. on the basis that they have made assertions of independence of the kind they have already made. and perhaps  they are in a trough and are  making any. but tomorrow they may make them again. keeps them different from the russians in the eyes of america. this is a critically important fact to them. if we want to let the light continue to burn in the polish breast as it has burned. it is very much to our interest that we do so. the fact that we do it is important to that part of the world. i hope that provision will remain in the bill.
. i believe there should be an expression from the committee chairman or from the senator in charge of the bill on the floor about the thailand radio transmitter. in order to confirm the understanding that it will have proper consideration in connection with the supplemental bill. which doubt will be before the senate in a day or two. i k that the senator can bind any committee. etheless. such a statement would assist the senator who had proposed the amendment and myself also. as i am deeply interested in the matter. i hope there may be an expression on the subject from the senator from arizona or from the senator from minnesota . the matter was discussed in the committee on appropriations. the reason the item was  included in the appropriation bill is that negotiations had  been completed.
. the new york city newspapers have  been shut down by a strike for 39 days. and all too little has percolated through to the public on the subject. because the mere fact of the strike of the newspapers is itself selfdefeating in that regard. in that the free media of public communication can be employed to communicate to the public what has occurred. it has been done on radio and television. and the radio and television stations have been excellent in that regard. but there still is hing like the visual media of the press. for that reason. i associate myself with the statement made by the gover of the state of new york. gov. nelson a. rockefeller. the mayor of the city of new york. robert f. wagner. and the u.s. secretary of labor. w. willard wirtz. who formed a board of public accountability. on january 6. 1963. the following statement was made by them: a fundamental means of communication essential to democratic government has been disrupted. it has resulted in grave inconvenience and difficulties for the people and the ecoy of the city. there has been a serious impact on state and national affairs as well. efforts to achieve a settlement of this dispute by collective bargaining and mediation thus far have  been successful. the public has the right to k why this intolerable situation continues. the public is entitled to k whether its interests are being given due account. if they are . the public has the right to exercise further influence to resolve the present deadlock. pursuant to their appointment. the board of public accountability  has reported. and this report recognizes most urgently that. by collective bargaining. in a coordinated manner. with all the unions concerned. the time has come to arrive at a settlement of the strike. i ask unanimous consent that documents i have in connection therewith be made a part of my remarks in the record.
. for myself and on behalf of my colleague. the junior senator from new york . i submit a concurrent resolution to create a joint committee on ethics to develop a code of ethics for members of congress and all other legislative employees. the public interest requires a clearly defined. enforceable code of ethics for senators. representatives and more than 25.000 employees in the legislative branch of the federal government. establishment of such a code would support public confidence in congress against the present danger of its weakening. it is completely incongruous for senate committees to question executive appointees rigorously on their financial affairs when those of us in congress and our staffs are  subject to similar standards and requirements. we can continue to function on this double standard of ethicsa complete set for the executive branch but e for the legislative branch. last year congress passed a law establishing an uptodate conflictofinterest code for the executive branch of the government. but failed to match it with a code for the legislative branch. this year we should remedy that omission. while creating a joint congressional committee to draw up a permanent code of ethics. the resolution would also set up an interim code to guide members of congress. the interim code would: require a member of congress to disclose immediately a financial interest valued at $10.000 or more in any activity subject to the jurisdiction of a federal regulatory agency. would limit outside employment. would ban the use of confidential information for other than official purposes. and would bar the use of official influence to gain special privileges or exemptions. i also. together with senator keating. send to the desk a companion bill to require that any written or oral communication between a member of congress or his staff and a regulatory agency in adjudicatory proceedings be made part of the public record. the bill would amend the administrative procedure act. it should be ed that the federal home loan bank board last year issued a regulation prohibiting certain ex parte communications altogether and requiring that the remainder be made a matter of public record. i believe this regulation is a valuable precedent and should spur congress to enact a similar provision uniformly applicable to all agencies.
i thank my colleague. . was that many of those who argue most strongly against a more effective way for closing debate. on the ground it is a "gag rule." are really special leaders arguing to avoid certain types of legislation. that there is really principle involved here in all fairness. because when it came to a bill upon which they wanted to close debate. a bill which they wanted to see passed. egh of them voted to close debate so that that procedure could be effective. it seems to me. therefore. that that sweeps away the argument that there is some principle which is involved which would be very unfair to the miity if debate were placed within even far more reasonable limits than . when twothirds of the senators must set their minds to it. as they did in respect of the communications satellite bill. finally. let us remember that every occasion on which we debate this issue is a historic moment. i do  agree with one of our leading newspapers. published in washington. d.c.. which said. in effect. "the debate on rule xxii is a sideshow. what the senate really ought to do is to debate proposed modifications of all the rules of the senate and congressional organization." i respectfully say to the publishers of that newspaper that we shall never get a debate on the rules of the senate in such a way that we can do something about them unless we change rule xxii. because we will again have. with respect to every rule. the builtin veto power of onethird of the senate. which is contained in rule xxii. therefore. when we fight for a change of rule xxii. we are fighting for the key which will unlock the door to a reform of what are. in my opinion. archaic procedures in the senate and the congress of the united states. finally. let it be said and kn that if we can ever bring about some meaningful change in rule xxii. we shall be changing the whole climate of legislation in the united states. and we shall be signalizing at last that the senate. like the rest of the nation. in venturing into outer space and dealing with the atom. has come into the modern age and is  living in the past. let us remember that the senate got along from 1806. which i believe is the date. until 1917. without any cloture rule at all. presiding officers felt they could terminate debate merely by holding a member to the rule of germaneness. or some other rule which in effect
. we can well adopt the doctrinaire point of view that we will  vote for any new programs. regardless of what may be involved. in my opinion. one of the most important features of the bill is that it will make possible a new approach to mass transportation. i do  believe we have begun to approach the potentialities of ination. invention. research and development in that field and. because it is an unprofitable field. because in many cases it is a burden even upon municipalities it is a proper area for consideration. great numbers of people are involved. there are great concentrations of population in metropolitan centers. if they are really strangled. trafficwise and communicationswise. it is most unwise from the point of view of the national interest. in terms of either communications within these metropolitan complexes or the undue concentration of population to disregard the problem. the people do  have the transportation means to enable them to spread out. so there is a vital national interest. there is a vital public interest which well deserves the support of the congress. i do  hold that we can write the bill off because it can be said superficially that the people who are interested in it are largely in new york. los angeles. philadelphia. boston. washington or baltimore. what is wrong with that. when those complexes represent the overwhelming taxpaying majority of the united states. so i hope that senators will take a sympathetic look at the proposed legislation. that does  mean that the door would be closed to any amendment. i am  pledged to vote for the bill with every line and word contained in it. at a meeting this morning one of our colleagues pointed out that there may be much wider power in the administrator in respect to cutting off aid when certain conditions occur in a particular project than anybody had in mind or wished to accept. that provision can properly be amended. i think the fundamental concept is essential. i think it is right. i think it will serve a basic and important element of our population. which urgently needs help in this regard. people are looking to us to take an interest in our people in the cities and to have some solicitude for them. i hope very much that the members of my party will look with open eyes and open mind on this particular measure. i am confident that they will. again i repeat what i have previously said. when the votes are counted. i believe it will be found that there is "solid republican opposition." to the measure. which i consider to be highly desirable for the people in the cities. they represent the overwhelming majority of the people of the united states.
. on the issue pending before the senate i wish to speak only briefly. to express my support of these inees. and to express the hope that the senate will confirm the inations. i always felt. in connection with the debate on the satellite communications bill. that we were engaged in an extremely important and interesting experiment in a mixed governmentprivate corporation. i recognize it is  purely mixed. in the sense of an admixture of investment. et cetera. but it will have government directors and will work very closely in connection with governmental powers as they are exercised by governmental agencies.
i add my tribute to time magazine and to its rened founder and editor in chief. henry r. luce. and his principal associates. roy e. larsen. andrew heiskell. james a. linen. wedley doan. and to the staff of time. inc. they have brought new and bold concepts into the magazine publishing business. they have added refreshing inations to the communications media. they have enriched the journalism profession and have become a great and influential force in american society.
. new tensions in the middle east stirred up by renewed egyptian efforts to unite with syria and iraq have also given rise to concern over u.s. policy in that region. the arms buildup in egypt. with the encouragement and support of the soviet union. the united arab republic proposal to drive israel into the sea. and the violent propaganda attempts by cairo radio and pronasser agitators to stir up a revolt against jordan constitute a grave danger to peace. and threaten to involve the great powers. if open hostilities should break out. the resolution which i and a bipartisan group of my colleagues introduced last week calls for a mutual defense agreement. on the philippines model. between the united states. the united kingdom. france. and other nations. with israel and any other middle east state. it would go a long way toward stabilizing the region by making clear to all our firm determination to join to protect the territorial integrity and political independence of any signatory middle east nation. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record an editorial by william randolph hearst. jr.. entitled "u.s. foreign policy." which appeared in the may 5 issue of hearst newspapers. and an analysis by s. l. a. marshall. entitled "mideast peril." which appeared in the washington post on may 11.
. for myself and the distinguished senator from oregon . i send to the desk a resolution to permit television and radio coverage of selected senate sessions during great debates on major issues. and ask that it be appropriately referred. the resolution would give the senate committee on rules and administration authority to determine the times and conditions under which television and radio broadcasters would be permitted to cover the senate proceedings. there are only about 300 seats for the public in the senate gallery. the right to witness public business should  be confined only to those whom the senate chamber will hold. the resolution is designed to take account of those who fear televisions effect on the legislative process. it is a reasonable and modest approach and essentially experimental. it would permit the rules committee.  composed of nine senators of both parties. to determine if a particular debate was of sufficient public interest to warrant television coverage. much as congressional committees  determine if they will open hearings to television coverage. i believe if we try this on a limited scale at first. we will be convinced that television coverage will have a beneficial effect on the legislative function. i believe. for example. that it would speed the often agonizing deliberative process because there would be less need to dramatize issues by extended debate. i believe also it will result in less timeconsuming and more actionproducing senate procedures in short. it will result in a more informed citizenry and a more responsive senate. this is  an idea without precedent. senate committees for several years have permitted the televising of selected committee investigating sessions. and these have been generally successful. in some cases. they have aroused widespread national interest leading to reform and other desirable objectives. the impact of television coverage of major united nations debates is well kn. in the past 3 years. legislative proceedings were open successfully to television in at least five states. in other states. legislative committee hearings and even some judicial proceedings were televised successfully. this year a sure major debate will be on the tax cut. a vital issue that directly affects nearly every american. the american people should have a front seat in such a crucial debate. i can see only positive results from bringing congress closer to the people in this way. we have tried many ways to stimulate the interest of our people in government. television has proved it can awaken this interest effectively. i believe the time has come for the senate to make a start toward using the great modern medium of television to advance the public interest.
. i ask unanimous consent to add the name of the distinguished senator from pennsylvania as a cosponsor of my resolution (s. res. 140) which is  sponsored by the senator from oregon and myself. allowing tv viewing of senate sessions.
 and the secretary of state. and the attitude of the people of the united states must be determined by the tremendous currents of opinion and the great actions which our nation takes. i pointed out that. in terms of the actions of our nation. i am sure there is the deepest feeling of friendship and desire to help. and confidence in the ultimate capability for selfgovernment. of the three countries namedliberia. ethiopia. and haitias well as other nations of africa. ody is more cognizant than i of the fact that these countries have varying degrees of problems. there is a great deal of stability in the government of both liberia and ethiopia. in ethiopia there is a different governmental system. yet there has been a great deal of stability in the governments of both of these countries. haiti has had very grave problemsproblems of dictatorship. problems of public order. problems of internal justice. etheless. i deeply feel that our country has confidence that these problems will be resolved and that they are subject to resolution very much more as the result of democratic action and the selfgovernment of its people. indeed. we want the people of haiti to have full selfgovernment. because that gives us the best assurance that if they do they will be able to work out their difficulties. without in anyway making a defense. but only stating what in all fairness to these countries should be stated. had there been time on the television program. i would like to state that these nations draw on an emous reservoir of good will on the part of the people of the united states and confidence in the resolution of their difficulties. whatever those difficulties are. and great confidence that the way in which to resolve their difficulties is through the process of selfgovernment. we also k that selfgovernment needs to be learned. just as ecoic development needs to be learned. it takes  only resources. but also background and certain internal forms of organization to bring about public education and public technical skills. we k that in all of these respects. we in this country have shown time and time again that we have feeling. in connection with their fears. that merely because the color of a persons skin is black. that that automatically inhibits the capacity of that person. on the contrary. the whole history of mankind is replete with extraordinary manifestations of intellect and leadership in every field by those whose skin may be black or yellow. i would be less than fair to myself if i did  rise to present to our friends in africa the other point of view. which i have given today. i hope very much that they will at least pay as much attention to the point of view that i am espousing as they apparently paid to the point of view of my colleague. the senator from louisiana. which was set forth on the same program. i deeply feeland i say this with the greatest of convictionthat what i am saying. rather than what they took offense at. reflects the overwhelming sentiment of our people. the senator from louisiana has the fullest right to state his view. as i have. however. i hope very much that our friends. who seem to have been so troubled by what was said by him. will give equal understanding. to what is being said . and. more than that. that they o will cast their eyes around our country and see the thousands of manifestations of friendship and confidence.  only in the governmental. but also in the private policy which is represented in the united states.
madam president. i wish to invite attention to the 10th anniversary of the usia. ten years ago president eisenhower established the u.s. information agency by the presidents reorganization plan  8. the new agency was given the oversea information activities of the international information administration. the mutual security agency. and other functions. the past 10 years have witnessed the growth and development of our international information agency to a point that it is  a vital part of our oversea operations through the world. today usia broadcasts over the voice of america 789 hours a week in 36 languages. for special events coverage. such as the orbiting of gordon cooper. it broadcasts in as many as 62 languages. every week. for use on oversea domestic stations translated into their native languages. usia posts place locally 14.000 hours of taped broadcasting. usia makes moving pictures. six hundred million people a month see usia films produced in 52 languages. today our information agency supplies film and tapes to hundreds of oversea television stations. beamed to millions of television receivers that did  exist when the agency was established 10 years ago.
 nasser is providing military aid to algeria. it is claimed that the amendment may get in the way of our situation with regard to india and pakistan. and perhaps with indonesia also. that is the difficulty which we face. if we do  adopt a basic principle. one will k where we stand. one will k how our aid will be used. and one will be put to any sacrifice if the aid is misused. that is the important point involved in this debate. i believe that events have borne out the insistence that this matter must be dealt with frontally in the way that the amendment suggests. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point a report to the washington post. october 30. an editorial entitled ."the syriairaq union." in the new yorktimes. october 30. and excerpts from a radio broadcast by radio rabat. morocco. october 23. in connection with my remarks in support of the grueningjavits amendment.
 of the cbs television network. as well as the author. ard perl. the director. tom gries. the producer. larry arrick. and david susskind and daniel melnick who presented this drama. i ask unanimous consent that an article entitled "a cbs show stars two negroes: atlanta blacks it out." published in the new york herald tribune on ember 5. and an article entitled "tv: a drama of protest." published in the new york times of the same date. be printed at this point in the record.
i wish to express my support of the amendment of the senator from pennsylvania. i should like to ask the senator a question and to make a comment on this point: i ice that the senator voted to cut the nasa appropriation $90 million. i did. also. my reason for doing so was that i felt we do  wish to slow the program down as sharply as would the amendment of the senator from arkansas . but i believe many of us felt perhaps a little too much has gone into it on that level. does  the senator from pennsylvania feel that this amendment has a corelationship to what we did in respect to the other vote. in the sense that here we are dealing with a strictly scientific inquiry in balancing out the extent. in terms of the country. of the scientific effort which has been put forward as between space and other disciplines.
i should like to k how the amendment fits in with a statutory provision in the authorization with respect to the electronic research center. which -the senate has previously considered with respect to the nasa authorization bill.
. what the senator from ohio has said has brought me to my feet. because i have tried very hard to have television broadcasts made of senate sessions. i have tried to have television services installed. just as we have newspaper reporters covering our sessions. to show what the senate does. i have introduced bills. and i have tried to do something about this before the committee on rules and administration. i have always been frustrated by the fear that to permit such a procedure somehow or other would destroy the dignity of the senate. therefore i was very much pleased to hear the senator from ohio. in his spontaneous way. with which he has become so well identified. almost wrench me from my seat to join him in trying to have our people see what goes on in the senate. i join him in his expressions. and i will do what i can to bring about that situation. i have already tried. by introducing a bill. to have a loudspeaker system installed in the senate. with microphones placed in our ink wells. or in some other conspicuous place on our desks. that bill is still languishing in committee. we talk about modernizing our procedures. yet we refuse to take advantage of even the most simple electronic means for getting across to the country what we have to say. for the benefit of the people who send us here to do the job for which we are delegated
i do  think we ought to let it rest this way. namely. that it be directed that the program be phased out. we k the qualifying jurisdictional question involved. but i think it is important to spell it out. one committee is given the authority to phase out the program. the senate and the house have something to say about it. i am sure the chairman. who has always been fair. would want to make that clear. apart from that feeling. i may say to the senator from minnesota that one of the important areas in which we are greatly deficient is the informational area. there are three ways to win the cold warmilitarily. ecoically. or informationally. we certainly do  want to have a military test of strength. we want to be well prepared. but we do  want to be put to a test. we are trying to win in the ecoic field and we have an emous aid program involving billions of dollars. but when we get to information there is something in us which restrains us from acting and doing what we ought to do in the interest of success for the united states. we are spending less money on information  than the russians used to spend when they jammed american broadcasts. in the hierarchy of broadcasting. with all the genius of america. we come after communist china in expenditures in that field. there is something wrong in this situation. when we talk about the informational media guarantee fund. it is easy egh to say that time and life are big organizations. and to ask why we should do anything that makes it possible for them to gain. but they will be able to say. "we thank you. gentlemen. you are very kind and distinguished. but we are stll a free enterprise. and instead of sending the magazines to saudi arabia. or to yemen. or wherever you think they should go. we will instead sell them in the united states. france. or britain. where we can get cold cash." they can very well say that. so it is answer to say that they are big organizations. . who is getting the foreign aid business. poor organizations. who is getting the billions of dollars in contracts for hardware. general motors. general electric. and other great companies. who provides telephone service. american telegraph & telephone co.. the biggest organization on earth. is that any reason to cut them out.  we want them to prosper and to keep busy and do a great job for the country. i have previously urged that perhaps it would be a better decision to have the legislative committee. the foreign relations committee. take a look at the whole posture of the information program of the united states. with all respect and deference to my colleagues of the appropriations committee. it is  right for them to determine what shall be the information program of this country. this is a great foreign relations question. neither the navy. army. air force.  foreign aid. can do more than this program. we are told. for example. that the main problem in the alliance for progress is that latin americans think we are buying their support. instead of winning their political and ideological support. yet the very instrument we have to get that done is inadequate to the task we have before us. so it is with the greatest respect that i urgeand i hope that it will be consideredthat the foreign relations committee set a rather high priority upon looking into the whole problem. naturally. the appropriations committee can do only that which the law allows. and it does  deal with authorizations. if the law needs changeand i believe it doesin order to give amplitude to our program. if the foreign relations committee believes. for example. that the sums provided for the informational media program deserve a better break than they have been getting. i think it is up to that committee to say so. even if it is  within the premise of general legislation. there is the authority of legislative oversight to permit that committee to deal with the question of the informational media guarantee fund. to take a specific example. under the authority of legislative oversight. pressure can be brought to have the foreign relations committee give high priority to the problem. i would hazard a guess. with all due respect. that there are few questions which are considered important egh to bring to the floor as a review of the informational media program. especially with the points that have been raised with respect to the program. and the making of some recommendations. either legislative or in terms of policy. to which i am sure the appropriations committee and the chairman will give the greatest respect and consideration.
. i am particularly pleased that nasa has accepted in substance my suggestion that some indication be made for the benefit of nasa employees as to those public accommodations which are or are  available to all regardless of color. i hope that other civilian departments and agencies will take e of this development. which had its beginning in the defense departments longstanding practice of posting off limits establishments for the information of both civilian and military personnel. i commend highly nasas initiative in creating the huntsville contractors equal employment opportunity association. a kind of local businessmens committee which i have long urged as an important element in developing community understanding and acceptance of equal treatment under the constitution. on december 5 last year. i inserted in the record a letter. from the department of labor. describing its activities to insure discrimination in the programs under its jurisdiction. subsequently. on december 17. the secretary of labor. w. willard wirtz. gave final approval to regulations. which had been first proposed in october. setting standards and compliance procedures to insure equal opportunity in the apprenticeship program. which is in my judgment a key factor in our national manpower problem. especially in skilled employment and in the building and construction trades. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed at this point in the record an article. from the new york times. describing the new regulations.
i hope it will be understood that what we are doing is. as lawyers say. "putting the government to its proof." we have deep convictions. after considerable investigation. that the path being trod is the wrong one. as the senator has said. the proposal is to change the location of a vital. active. groundbased electronics communications :installation. we do  say that the move should  be taken in an effort to keep alive something that ought  to be kept alive on the ground of national interest and security. but take this position because of our conviction that the decision is an incorrect one. our duty is to put the government to its proof. and to make our case as horoughly as we possibly can.
. we have had a very practical demonstration of what the senate can do if it wants to assert its will. in the consideration of the communications satellite bill in 1962. if the 70percent vote in favor of the civil rights bill in the house were matched in the senate. we could invoke cloture on a civil rights bill for the first time since rule xxii was adopted. i join the majority and miity leaders in their determination that we must meet this issue and that history and duty will  permit us to "choose the course of evasion and denial." but the way to do this is to move in a practical and determined way. it is  to be precipitous but it also means that we proponents must be as determined as the opponents have proved themselves to be on so many occasions. in that way the issue will be joined and determined. i can assure the leadership that as far as i am concerned. there will be lack of willingness to debate the details and the law in the most considered and respectful way.  will there be any lack of determination to advocate and to join with my fellow senators in order to see that the length of the sessions is commensurate with the issue. and that our determination on cloture. the enforcement of the rules. and every other aspect of the debate are fully equal to the determination which has been shownand undoubtedly will be shown againby the opponents of the proposed legislation.
. first. a correction. i am advised that it has been broadcast to the world that my colleague. the senator from new york . can be ready to state the facts. rather than state the facts myself. i have called my colleague to come to the floor and disclose to the senate that he is ready to speak. he will be here very shortly. i wish to make it clear that the statements which have been advertised. to the effect that he is  ready. are  the facts.
.. it is a fact that the rule provides as.follows: except by unanimous consent. amendment shall be in order after the vote to bring the debate to a close. unless the same has been presented and read prior to that time. it is a fact that the rule does  say by whom the amendment must be read. nevertheless. it has been the settled practice of the senate. as long as i have been hereand i have been through the question of cloture and amendments to a bill subject to cloture in connection with the communication satellite billthat the reading must be done by the clerk at the desk. however. i have desire to impede the senator in anything that he wishes to do and that he feels he should do. i only make the suggestion. in view of the fact that i believe the question is one of first impression and the fact that we may easily be able to settle it by unanimous consent. that i should like to have an opportunity to consult with the senator in charge of the bill. and that it would be better  to press the question of appealing the ruling of the chair. which may necessarily  be the correct ruling. at this particular time. however. if the senator insists. i realize that the chair has alternative but to rule. i realize that the parliamentarian has stated to the chair his view. however. i wish to state . and have it understood. that i shall  consider the ruling as a precedent. and i reserve the right to contest the ruling. if i think it should be contested. at aher time.
i thank the senator. he can understand why i would be interested in cbs buying the new york yankees. i was obliged to be absent from the chamber. but i have just been briefed on what the senator said. i appreciate the sense and the spirit in which he speaks. it is true that careful consideration must be given to the policy involved in the control of a great television attraction by a great television company. that is really what it comes down to. also. the ties which that could involve if abused. i can hardly believe these factors will  have been thought out very carefully by the parties in interest. if they actually go through with this operation. i have little doubt that if they have  thought about it they had better do so and be prepared to give to the public an explanation. with all deference to the senators views. i would  myself say that. ipso facto. on its face. this transaction is something that should  be permitted. for this reason: we in new york are proud of our ball teams. one of the great traditions of new york is to have sportsand clean sports. the distinguished junior senator from new york . who has since entered the chamber. in his career both on the house committee on the judiciary and on the senate committee on the judiciary has fought a long struggle to keep sports clean. obviously. strong ownership of a distinguished characterand cbs is certainly one of new yorks most distinguished companiesconstitutes good auspices for the conduct of clean. hoable sports. of which the people can be proud. the second point is that cbs is a publicly owned company. this is also an important aspect of this matter. because when management is. in essence. the trustee for many stockholders. again the public has assurance that the operation is  one that is conducted from somebodys vest pocket or from under his hat. it gives assurance of clean sports. in which we are deeply interested. and also of strong ownership. which we hope will keep the yankees in the forefront of the pennant winners for a long time. those are the facts on the affirmative side which i think should be spread upon the record. the fact that the senator from kansas has directed his attention to this subject is most laudable and commendable. it should be examined with the greatest care from the monetary aspect and its public interest aspect generally. i wish to express my pride in such a distinguished alliance. because it relates to two important entities of which new york is proud. i wish to spread upon the record some of the affirmative areas where the proof will. i trust. be forthcoming from the parties in interest. to give the public the reassurance which i think it is essential to call for. considering the complementary nature of these two enterprises
. the la guardia memorial association. according to its tradition. held services at the grave of the late and beloved mayor of new york. fiorello h. la guardia. on september 20. the 17th anniversary of his death. during the ceremony at woodlawn cemetery. morris s. ik. who was director of the citys radio station. wnyc. during the la guardia administration and who is  a radio consultant in new york and a member of the advisory committee on international information. spoke about the "little flowers" remarkable talent for communicating with the people of his city. through this talent. the people of new york city closely identified themselves with the aspirations of their mayor. and made him the most beloved city official in modern times. i ask unanimous consent to insert mr. iks remarks on this occasion into the
. i submit. for appropriate reference. two resolutions designed to enhance the interest of the public in senate proceedings. the first resolution. introduced on behalf of myself. mr. clar and mr. morse. would permit television and radio coverage of selected senate sessions during major debates on the most important national issues. the other would allow the installation of a public address system within the senate chamber. the latter resolution. introduced on behalf of myself. mr. anderson. mr. bennett. mr. boggs. mr. clark. mr. dirksen.
. i wish tc annce to the senate. with great sadnessand i k it will be shared by al my colleaguesthe passing of edward r murrow. famed radio and televisior newscaster. former head of the u.s. in. formation agency. and a personal frienc of mine. who died today at pawling. n.y. in his home in the rolling hills of dutch. ess county. which he loved so much. as result of an ailment from which he hac been troubled for a longtime. cancer o the lung.   . . it will be recalled that we had hopei and prayed that he would rebver suffi ciently to. go back to his job as head o the* usia: but he could  take up th volume of_ work. and resigned in jul. 1964. in the hope of restoring his healt] and former activity. apparently. natur would  allow that. and he was called to his maker. mr. murrow was 57 years old. he had a distinguished career as one of the most outstanding radio and television newscasters. masters of ceremonies. and commentators of our day. he has had as distinguished a career as anybody has had in radio and television since it began and he was a wonderful human being. witty. gracious. and very bright. when he performed. as he did. so well for the united states as a whole in the usia. he was a joy to all his friends and justified all the expectations they had that he would hold down so difficult a position with as great credit as he had shown before. other tributes will be paid to mr. murrow in due course. i k of his close relation to the great television system with which he was associated. cbs. for many years. and its heads. william paley and dr. stanton. but what is most important in these first moments is to have a concept of what the man stood for. one thing one could say in greatest tribute to ed murrow was that he had a passion for truth. and he pursued it with great courage. it gave him a mission in life. and also. in a sense. it is his message in death as he transmits to us a heritage of the very apogee of a newspapermans career. he believed in truth. and therefore he believed in the essential virtues and values of mankind. i extend my deepest condolances. as does my wife. to ed murrows whole f amily. and pay my tribute to the memory of. one of americas most distinguished sons in the field of communications. he served his time. the people. and the nation extremely well.
 johnson. chief justice earl warren. and the late u.n. ambassador. adlai stevenson. the adl. which has filed a formal complaint against the activities of this organization with the federal communications commission.  estimates that let freedom ring is active in at least 30 american cities. adl also suggested a wide variety of legislative remedies to curb these abuses. and the american telephone & telegraph co.. has  informed the fcc that because of the number of complaints centering on let freedom ring activity. it will make available from company files to those who ask for it. the names and addresses of individuals or organizations using telephone recorded devices. all these developments should be commended. but the legislation i introduce today. in my judgment. is the best way to proceed. consistent with civil liberties. it makes it mandatory for all telephone companiesincluding those  under the a.t. & t. standardto make kn the identity of local subscribers using such devices. and also requires these sponsors to identify themselves on the message itself. in my judgment. public disclosure is the best way. in our free society. to curb these vicious attacks. on many previous occasions. it has taken newspaper reporters weeks of hard work in local communities to find out the identity of the local sponsor of let freedom ring messages. it has been virtually impossible for many citizens--without the means of uncovering information available to journaliststo find out who was making these attacks. even when the attacks were directed at them personally. the bill i introduce today is particularly necessary because the method used by lfr makes it faceless. and aymous. a voice on the telephone.  even the written word where the inaccuracies and innuendoes can at least become apparent to reasonable people on considered readingjust the short message over the phone. which leaves you asking what exactly was said. but with just egh of the message to cause suspicion and doubt. it is vital to make the identity of the sponsors of such messages kn to anyone who hears these messages. so that they can better evaluate the content. it is also vital that those being attackedespecially those attacked in the localoriented programs sponsored by let freedom ringhave ready access to the identity of the sponsors in the event they elect to take legal action against them. unless the public can learn the identity of those paying for these messages and unless it understands that this sort of message depends on the use of innuendo. halftruth and invective to leave a nagging. if illogical. suspicion of communist taint in the mind of the listener. it may underestimate the effectiveness of this sort of propaganda. both the communists and the nazis understood only too well that the constant repetition of halftruths and outright lies over a long egh period could make suspicion of lawful. democratic authority commonplace. i am pleased to say that a number of leading telephone companies are taking constructive and helpful steps to require greater disclosure of the identity of those sending these messages. i hope the bill i introduced today will be the subject of full hearings by the commerce committee so that at long last. the full light of public scrutiny will be thrown on the operators of these "dialahate" groups. as everyone ks. i am an ardent advocate of civil liberties. civil liberties are safeguarded under circumstances where if an organization wants to proceed as "let freedom ring" does. we should be able to find out its identity and location and be able to answer them. that is what the bill provides. i sincerely hope it may have early action at the ct session of congress.
. speaking before the national press club may 18. hubbell robinson. executive in charge of production for a new television series. "abc stage 67." predicted a new day was dawning for creativity in television programing. mr. robinson was one of the most forwardlooking executives during the socalled golden age of television in the midfifties when he spoke about a series of 26 television specials which would include drama. comedy. public affairs. and musical entertainment. his comments. which i heard on may 18. on the present status of television programing and his predictions for the future were so interesting and informative that i would like to call them to the attention of the senate. i ask unanimous consent to insert in the record the text of his speech at the national press club.
. this has been a year of major renewed attention to one of the nations great. but still underdeveloped. national resources: educational television. early this month. on august 1. the ford foundation unveiled its proposal to make communication satellites and new muchneeded dollars available for educational tv. and before the year is finished. the muchawaited carnegie commission report on educational television will be available. months before its originally anticipated release date. these events have particular significance at this time because the legislation which made educational tvs growth possiblethe educational television facilities act of 1962expires at the end of the current fiscal year. the distinguished chairman of the commerce committee and the acts author. senator warren magnuson. has already indicated that he intends to undertake a major inquiry on the extension and revision of the present law. all this is of special importance to new york. a state which has had an outstanding history in utilizing tv as an instrument for education. five educational tv stations are presently operating in albanyschenectady. buffalo. syracuse. and two in new york city. two more are expected this year. one in rochester and the other in new york city. and both the state university of new york and the new york state department of education are giving serious thought to the establishment of a state educational tv network. but. further progress will be frustrated unless the educational television facilities act is significantly amended. the present law restricts the federal funds available to each state to $1 million. the allocation for new york state was used up this spring and additional federal moneys will be unavailable until the act is amended. since the law expires on june 30. 1967. there seems likelihood that any changes might be made before that time. before these funds will be available. we must look. therefore. to the new legislation which will follow after the recommendations of the carnegie commission and the commerce committee study. binghampton. hempstead and watertown in new york state. will  be able to fulfill their plans for educational tv until the law is amended. similarly. elsewhere throughout the nation. other communities also are awaiting additional funds. educational television has brought many outstanding cultural and public affairs programs as well as vital services to our communities and to our schools and colleges. including such recent inations as assisting preschool education. helping nursing education. training dropouts. retraining olderworkers and encouraging citizen participation in government. a major responsibility which the congress and the nation must face next yearand an opportunity. toois extension of the educational television facilities act. the carnegie commission and the commerce committee studies should furnish excellent guideposts for this advance and in meeting the needs of the nation. i rise today to urge the amendment of the educational television facilities act. because today the federal funds restricted to each state are $1 million. for example. in my state any progress has been aborted by this limitation. therefore. i hope very much that we will enable the states to go forward in accordance with their ability and willingness to go forward. rather than hampering and aborting them with this narrow limitation in the basic act.
i had two questions. i have one more i wish to ask and i will be only a few seconds. is it  a fact that this thing is as broad as it comes. that the communications satellite filibusterers would be shut off just as fast as other filibusterers. is it  also a fact that the senator presents us with a paradox that will never be resolved. because of the twothirds rule. whether a majority was or was  for repeal of section 14(b). and therefore. that this is merely suspending the constitution in favor of a senate rule. which is  a feasible argument.
big brother is watching us. we could have television screens in our offices. i have been here long egh to k that one needs to get a pretty good consensus before trying something that is new. i think i have a pretty good consensus to leave the choice of the system to the majority leader and the miity leader. i think that the senator from louisiana has a little standing with them. his ideas will be most refreshing. i would say that the ideal would be of interest to me as a modernist. but they will be making the decision. if they feel that the system can be extended to our offices so we can hear there. too. that is all right with me. but i would rather  have that in the legislative history because i honestly feel that the best plan is to leave it to these two senators.
. i ask unanimous consent that the text of a booklet describing this remarkable broadcast skills bank plan. together with various newspaper accounts of the program. be printed at this point in the record.
i could  agree with the senator more. i only express the hope that other efforts of the same character. may be tied in. .to do benefit to our whole hemisphere. for example. i have had the privilege of playing a rather important part in the great effort to have a communications satellite for th and south america. this would be a tremendously uniting force for the world. i believe. . that i have a family of rather typical children. i find . for the first time. that the educational television channel is an established aspect of their listening time.  this is quite an improvement when i remember that they were listehing to. and watching sensational westerns and. so forth for almost their .total television. time as recently as 2 years ago. this is a personal family experience. of course. i k the situation. from personal experience. however. if we need an argument in favor of this bill this is a clincher as far as i am concerned. this is it.
i ask this question as lawyer. because i am sure the senatoi would want his amendment clearly understood and unmistakable in its intent i intend. by the way. to vote for it. i gather that the words "general coy erage" are meant to include newspapers television. radio stations. and all othe general coverage media.
 felipe herrera of the interamerican development bank that the bank will undertake a preinvestment study of the general requirements needed to bring into operation an interamerican telecommunications network. such a network would interconnect the domestic telecommunications systems of the latin american countries and through the network the domestic systems could also communicate with the outside world. the study is expected within the next 9 to 12 months and will be based on studies already undertaken in this area. very importantly. the proposed system would involve the use of satellite communications. i ask unanimous consent that the statement issued by the interamerican development bank in this connection be printed in the record.
ial election day a national holiday. this would encourage more voter participation. and would compensate. in a sense. the people of nevada and alaska who will lose voting hours. by making it possible for the working man or woman to vote at any time during the day. hearings on electoral reporting begin next week in the communications subcommittee of the commerce committee. and i urge the members of the committee to consider these proposals as part of their comprehensive study. i ask unanimous consent that the two bills be printed in the record.
 signed the public broadcasting act of 1967. which i supported. this act will provide federal funds to help educational tv and radio broadcasting. but as i have said on many occasions. this federal support can do the entire job. and the private sector must continue to support public broadcasting in this country. in this connection. i would like to call attention to the important work being done  by the national citizens committee for public television with headquarters in new york. this national committee was organized to bring citizen support throughout the nation to expanding efforts of public television. the chairman of the national citizens committee is thomas p. f. hoving. director of the metropolitan museum of art of new york. the committee was formed last may by mr. hoving. ralph ellison. devereux c. josephs. ralph lowell. and newton n. mi. it was funded with $250.000 in grants from the danforth. kellogg. sloan. and ford foundations. the 20th century fund. and the carnegie corp.. of new york. this group of distinguished americans will hold its first national meeting in new orleans next month to help mobilize public opinion for public broadcasting. to give an idea of the widespread support in this country for the purposes of the act. i ask unanimous consent that the names of the members of the national committee be printed in the record.
. can call the tune in this matter. i thoroughly agree with the senate conferees that we. face- a blank wall with the house conferees. so the senate must speak. i wish to point out that there is broad and- unanimous opinion in the other body. because with respect to the impacted areas item. they- voted 189 to 199 to sustain the conferees. which is a. pretty narrow vote. there is very distinguished support for. the position i am espousing in. the house. fifty members of the house are sponsoring a $200 million supplemental appropriation for this summer. the aflcio has wired me. as have the league of women voters of the united states. vet-. erans organizations. and. so forth. i ask unanimous consent- that some of the communications i have received be printed at this point in the record.
ial election year. and as the excitement and tension mounts. there is increased concern over the use of electronic projections of voting trends on election night. my principal concern in this matter is that projections of voting trends in the eastern half of the country. immediately broadcast by the major networks. could have an impact on voters on the west coast. this could be particularly critical in close elections. as the one this year is supposed to be. i realize full well that there is  conclusive evidence that eastern voting affects western voters. but as i asked when i reintroduced the uniform pollclosing bill last july: who would want to take the chance. in these times of domestic tension. of creating even the suspicion that our national leadership was established on such a basis. there is also aher way at looking at the problem of electronic voter projections. i feel that james a. wechsler. editor of the new york post. captured the spirit of this criticism magnificently in a recent column published in his newspaper. in the final analysis. more citizens may come to see the benefits of proposals such as my uniform pollclosing bill by reading mr. wechslers arguments than by any others. i ask unanimous consent that mr. wechslers column published in the new york post of may 15. be printed in the record.
. while open discussion and a free exchange between the youth of our nation and their elders is essential in our society. yet the channels of communication are often  adequately open. had honest free expression of dissent been permitted in chicago during the democratic national convention. some of the tension and bloodshed might well have been avoided. if we used our stadiums as platforms for debate. then perhaps our streets would  be arenas for assault and violence. a healthy and fresh skepticism exists among our young peoplea desire to question ideas many of which are indeed  obsolete. we should explore with young people the questions arising out of americas past and present. so that we may share with them a more promising future. if we are to realize the possibilities of the future. we must give our youth the opportunity to be heard. we must provide forums for their questions as well as channels for their dissent. of those who have been working effectively toward this end. one of the pioneers of an open exchange between young people and their older fellow americans is dorothy gordon. dorothy gordon. a devoted champion of young people. is a believer in their potential wisdom and insight. she has directed her energy to providing them with an effective platform for their questions and their views. in 1945 she founded what is kn  as the "dorothy gordon youth forum." a weekly television and radio show. which allows young panelists to question leading personalities in varying disciplines. dorothy gordons program has received national acclaim. she has been presented numerous awards. citing her unique contribution to the discussion of ideas and the enrichment of human relations. it is with great pleasure that i e the 25th anniversary of an enterprise that reflects a fine public service and a high degree of genuine community concern.
. in these trying times when our society is faced with increasing polarization between the haves and the have s--when there is a communications gap between the white and white sectors of our societyit becomes increasingly important that there be adequate opportunities available to blacks. puerto ricans. mexican americans. and other miity group members. to break into the news and communications media. in this connection. i wish to call to the attention of congress a most worthwhile program just undertaken by the new york urban coalition. the program is called a communications skills bank for miities. and it is designed to help members of miity groups find editorial jobs in the communications industry. the aim is to take talented. but often untrained. members of miity groups and to bring them and jobs together so that they may become reporters. editors. and news anncers or editorial employees in advertising. book publishing. and public relations. the program is being undertaken on a nationwide basis with a farreaching registration effort centered in new york city. so that congress and the nation at large may become acquainted with this forwardlooking effortan effort that will help bridge the communications gap by bringing more whites into the presently whitedominated communications and news mediai ask unanimous consent that the new york urban coalitions explanatory brochure be printed in the record.
. much is being said about "whats wrong" and "whats right with television in our country today. i am pleased to call to the attention of my colleagues and the nation the 181/2hour election day special presented by a local television station in new yorkwortvas an example of "whats right." wortv performed a special public service. the station preempted all its programing on monday. ember 3the eve of election dayand made it available at cost. for the exclusive broadcast use of the qualified candidates for the offices of mayor of new york city and gover of new jersey. this donation of a full day. 181/2 hours7 a.m. ember 3 to 1:30 a.m. ember 4of broadcast time. so that all the candidates and the issues could be made available to the public view. was clearly responsive to the peoples need for full. frank. and open discussion and represented a giant step forward to provide programing "in the public interest." in our society. it is imperative that the electorate have an opportunity to meet the various candidates and to understand their policies. yet as the populations of our cities and states grow larger and the costs of campaigning continue their upward spiral. it becomes increasingly difficult for candidates to reach all the electorate during a campaign. i believe the unique and important public service offered by wortv should stand as an important example for other local stations as well as for the networks. such publicservice broadcasting is bound to encourage enlightened voting and to permit qualified candidates to seek public office despite limited financial resources. i wish to record my congratulations to the management of wortv for a fine public serviceand for unbiased concern for the important issues of our day. i ask unanimous consent that a press release by wortv as well as an article in the new york times of ember 4. 1969. which describe the special programing. be printed in the record.
 of the general federption of womens clubs. a feature from the new york sunday news written by the dean of radio and television critics. ben gross. plus aher article by mr. gross dealing with the making available gratis of 16millimeter prints to educational. patriotic. civic. and religious groups desiring to see this program.
. the compelling and reasoned articulation of the critical need to end the vietnam war. presented by senators goodell. hatfield. mcgovern. church. and hughes in their tuesday night television broadcast to the nation. was an excellent contribution to the current national debate on u.s. policy in indochina. as a senator who has worked closely on many occasions with these same senators to gain peace in vietnam. i wish to make clear my strong support for their stated objective of establishing how the congress can contribute effectively to end the vietnam war. the question for senators like myself who agree on the policy objective is whether the amendment sponsored by this group is the best means for the senate to invoke from the legislative and constitutional standpoints. it is my hope and expectation that further consultation between the amendments sponsors and other senators like myself will lead to a procedure which will make possible the support of a solid majority in the senate. senators
s objectives. the space program should be continued so that scientific advances will be made. but. the timing is right and our resources should be directed to other programs to a proportionally greater degree right . to achieve the reordering of priorities which is so necessary. i previously joined with my colleagues in asking the senate appropriations subcommittee for independent offices and department of hud to reduce the house appropriation for nasa by approximately 20 percent and to eliminate funds for the design and definition of the space shuttle/station. unfortunately. the committee acted to increase the appropriation for nasa to $3.319.303.000. which is $122.303.000 over the house figure. in addition. funds for the space shuttle/station were  deleted. even though there are doubts. documented by senator mondale and by congressman karth. chairman of the house subcommittee on science and astronautics. about starting a program which could cost $14 billion for development and could eventually cost $50 to $100 billion if expanded to a mars landing program. as expected. in view of the unfavorable actions taken by the appropriations committee. i am offering the amendment for a $600 million cut in nasa appropriations and am supporting the amendment to delete funds for the space shuttle/station. i do  believe a reduction of this magnitude will cripple the space program. however. it will require a hard look at existing and future programs to ascertain what is absolutely essential at this time. and what can be delayed or eliminated. we must demonstrate that congress is willing to place a much greater emphasis on the critical. immediate needs here at home before giving priority to the pursuit of other planets. when the .entire appropriation approved by the senate committee for housing and urban development. which administers a nationwide housing program. is only $2 million greater than the appropriation for nasa. there is something wrong in the allocation of resources apportioned to national problems and their exigencies. the amendment which i submit and the amendment relating to the space shuttle/ station seek to change this. and i hope that the senate will support them. i ask unanimous consent that the amendment be printed and lie on the table.
 of the childrens television workshop. i feel that mr. dann is to be commended for his action in using his great kledge and skill for the benefit of the struggling public broadcasting system. this kind of publicspirited action reflects the attitude of cbs itself. which has been a firm supporter of public broadcasting and contributed $1 million to the corporation for public broadcasting. childrens television workshop is the creator of "sesame street." the outstanding successful educational program for preschoolers seen on public television this past season. it has been said that this one show has done more to demonstrate the potential of the educational television medium than anything in its 17year history. for the benefit of senators who may have missed the news stories on mr. danns decision. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the article from the new york times of june 22.
. on sunday last on. "face the nation." i tried to explain the situation and answer questions on the problem in the mideast in the frame of reference as i saw it. i ask unanimous consent that a transcript of the broadcast be printed at thispoint in the record.
as the senator ks. i am a cosponsor of this proposal. i do  pretend to understand as much about the space satellite program as the senator from minnesota. but i do k about the need for reordering our national priorities. and reassessing the value of the space program with a seemly regard for our other national requirements. because of that. i join with the senator in believing that this effort needs to be slowed down. there is rush about it. we will get to mars a little bit later. indeed. we may be able to do it in cooperation with the soviet union. there is need to duplicate this expensive and meaningless race. competition for what. we can share the joy of reaching outer space together. i hope senators will have clearly in mind. in votingon the proposed motion to table. that this is an amendment to save money.  to spend it. i hope the senate may see its way clear to endorse a philosophy which says. "sure. we want space. we want the sst. we want lots of things. but they must be done with a seemly regard for the deep troubles this country is facing . and that means phasing them in more slowly than the amount of steam involved in an appropriation of this size would indicate."
. i am pleased to bring to the attention of senators a commercial television program which turned out to be a potent instrument of international good will. and shows an important side of the american character to milliong of people all over the world. last april the american telephone & telegaph co. presented lee marvin in "it couldnt be done." this television tribute to american courage and foresight saluted the builders of the brooklyn bridge. the holland tunnel. mount rushmore memorial. and many other monuments to american perseverance against virtually insuperable obstacles. it was endorsed by the national education association as well as the general federation of womens clubs. and attracted some 30 million viewers. it also attracted the interest of the u.s. information agency. under the auspices of usia. "it couldnt be done" is  being prepared in 30 languages for showing in 120 countries. i understand that virtually all members of the european broadcasting union have declared their intention of scheduling the program in prime time in their respective countries. fully aware that the program is a frankbut accuratepaean of praise for the united states. and that portugal and japan have already broadcast the program in prime time to high praise from the critics and general public alike. so much interest in the feature has been generated in this country that a.t. & t. on behalf of its bell system family theater will rebroadcast "it couldnt be done" on nbctv on february 9 at 7:30 p.m. i ask unanimous .consent that an article entitled "portuguese acclaim u.s. tv show." which describes the impact of "it couldnt be done" in portugal. written by the dean of radio and television editors. ben gross. of the new york daily news. be printed in the record.
. i would like to have the attention of the senator from ohio. if i could. concerning this matter of revising our procedure. i have mentioned this matter before and i would like to get the. senators view as long as :we are discussing it. does hot the senator agree with me that the same group ought to zero in on the question of unanimousconsent agreements for voting on bills. amendments. and resolutions. and so forth. and that we ought to have a little better * balanced procedure to touch all the bases. as we say around here. and be sure that all members really have an opportunity to decide whether they are ready for a unanimousconsent agreement on any measure. rather than leave it as we have  with the great possibility of omitting someone in the rather informal effort of reaching everyone. i suggest as a possibility that 15 minutes ice be given by telephone to all members of a prospective unanimousconsent request to vote on any resolution. bill. or measure.
. recently my close colleague. the senior senator from new jersey . took an important initiative in bringing before the senate and the nation certain facts concerning the funding and operation of radio free europe. senator cases initiative has attracted considerable attention in the press. i ask unanimous consent that a selection of press articles on this subject be printed in the record.
i do  think the senator changes what i said. he includes the duties which have heretofore been the subject of executive and public hearings. he is more than that. but he is also that. on the other hand. dr. kissingers job traditionally has been direct confidential -adviser to the president. he deals with highly classified matters of national security. i have  checked the precedents. but i understand there always has been a great reluctance on the part of a president to have his adviser or emissary go before committees. doubt there is a lot of abuse. also. of the use of "security classifications" to keep information away from us. that is aher subject. and one which deserves hard scrutiny and corrective action. the president himself does  have to come to us and he can instruct his personal man that he does  want him to appear either. but i do  believe cabinet officers can do that. i say we have a right to call bill rogers. whom i respect emously. he has been a friend of mine as he has been of the senator from missouri. and i respect and admire his authority and i want to build him up. but i think we have a right to call him and say. "we hear on radio -and television the following things emanating from the president. what do you k about it." we can go after that hammer -and tong. we have oversight over that department. but the president. under the constitution. is a separate official. we establish the state department and the secretarys office. by legislation. the presidency is established by the constitution.
. i have discussed with the distinguished senator who is managing the bill a provision in the committee report which deals with a very vexing problem for the large states. and that is the problem of transferring as between accountsit is on page 8. at the top of the page. just before the new titlethe question of applying excess official telephone and telegraph allowances for the charges on official stationery. my office has been out of that particular account basis. if my memory is correct. for a minimum of 4 months. and i have personally paid it. my ecoics. i might tell the senate. are bad egh. in all the years i have been in the house and the senateand i have been in the house and the senate for 23 yearsi have never received a penny of my salary. and i still do . the ecoics are made even more impossible by the acute difficulty of even earning a living at the practice of law. which is seemingly becoming more impossible every day. so this is a very real problem to people such as myself. but i am satisfied. after talking with senator hollings. that for the moment the committee has done what it can in accepting the amendment of the senator from florida . which permits a transfer between telegraph and telephone and in adding for states such as my own some $400 on the stationery allowance. with almost a third of the membership of the senate. whom we have as cosponsors. feeling as we do. i am very hopeful that we can work this out. and i do  wish to stand in the way of the bill at this time.
. some 44 years ago the late theodore granik. my good friend. founded "the american forum" radio discussion show on station wor in new york city. this was radios first discussion program. and it returned to the air on october 17the first time it was aired since mr. graniks passing late last year. ted granik was a creative genius in establishing and helping to develop the public affairs format for radio and television. american forum and youth wants to k are two landmark tributes to his memory. his widow. hannah granik.  takes over as associate producer and coordinator. working with robert c. cody. executive producer. in carrying on the great tradition of "the american forum." the first show of the new season concerned itself with an issue that troubled mr. granik as well as all publicspirited americansthe issue of hunger in america. so that congress is aware that the american forum continues. i ask unanimous consent that the transcript of the first program. which features a dialog between two experts on hungerthe assistant secretary of agriculture for marketing and consumer affairs. richard e. lyng. and the national correspondent for the washington post and pulitzer prize winning author of "let them eat promises." nick kotzbe printed in the record.
. these are absolutely critical rights. then. to detail some more. there is very grave doubt under this amendment whether any effective effort can be made by individual complaint to bar government contracts. as we are retaining in the department of labor the office of federal contract compliance. this is a very important right and should  be permitted to rest alone on the initiative of the u.s. government. aher area in which there has been an emous amount of activity which might be curtailed by this amendment is in regard to discrimination by recipients of government grants. there. for example. a great deal has been done in regard to sex discrimination in colleges. again. the exclusivity of remedythat is the word that is usedwould. it seems to me. bar a remedy for this kind of discrimination. the senator himself has made it clear that intercession. for example. in ratemaking procedures. as. for example. the fact that this commission itself has sought to intercede with the federal communications commission concerning possible discrimination by the american telephone & telegraph co. against its employees. and using that as a disqualifying fact in regard to the rate increase that may be sought by the a.t. & t.. might be curtailed. in addition. private individuals can themselves sue state and local governments. without waiting for the attorney general. we have a case very recently in which a judge in alabama ordered the department of public safety to start adding black troopers immediately to the extent of onefourth of the force. that was a suit brought under the civil rights act and the constitution. i ask unanimous consent that the newsstory and description of just what was at stake. from the new york times of sunday. february 13. 1972. be made a part of my remarks.
. statements on this subject have appeared in the press throughout the nation and over radio and television. a further measure of the seriousness of the emergency here involved is that so large a group of cosponsors would get together in a relatively short timeincluding. incidentally. the present occupant of the chair. the senator from wisconsin -to back this legislation. this is  a pleasant subject. it used to be  even a polite subject. but this is a very real problem for our country. striking directly at our young people. and striking at the most respectable elements of the community and their children. it is something we must deal with. and deal with quickly. because it is really getting away from us. history has shown that when we do get after it. as the bill contemplates. the reduction is marked. but when we do  finance the effort. the result is a runaway situation. made even worse by the social conditions surrounding us today. i am grateful to the chairman of the committee. the senator from new jersey
. as a member of the committee. i am pleased that the chairman has agreed to accept this amendment. i am dismayed by the fact that he considers it some exercise of "force majeur." in that the brooke amendment has the votes. but i would like to point out that originally i had proposed to ask for this amendment myself but in deference to the chairman. who carries such a heavy load. i did  want to be the one to raise the question. i am glad the senator from massachusetts did. in answer to the main point made. that the usia may want other things distributed here. it is significant that we have. and the committee inserted. a complete barrier to any information of the usias being disseminated. this is a small exception because the prohibition is a blanket one covering all other materials. i should like to point out that this changes the existing law which was confined to a prohibition only against press releases and radio scripts.  the prohibition is that any information shall  be disseminated within the united states. its territories. or possessions. the exception in senator erookes amendment makes it solely this one. scholarly publication. the reason for this publication is that. as happens with publications which have a tradition. this one has attracted erudite participation by its many distinguished contributors. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a list of some of these major contributors as well as a telegram from a constituent of mine. professor brzezinski. who teaches at columbia. pointing out the critical importance as he sees it to american academic life of the continuance of this journal. it is my understanding that other members of the academic community have been in touch with their senators on this matter.
every other day i am on the telephone with some department. whether it is hew. oeo. the department of defense. or some other department. in a case of serious distress. they say: "we can do it. the law does  allow it. or our appropriations do  allow it." i do  say hew should be lawless and make authority where it did  have it. i say we should at least have had the opportunity to act on it if they felt they had statutory authority to deal with what was a burgeoning situation. some ground rules should have been set. but  having been set. i think the ex post facto situation is  fair to the states. that is thesituation we face.
. i shall convey that view. i believe we should act in a crisis atmosphere in order to get results. by mr. baker: s.j. res. 60. a joint resolution to direct the federal communications commission to study and revise its rules consistent with the realities of modern day broadcasting. and the special problems of the small market radio broadcaster. referred to the committee on commerce.
. i have illusions about whether this will fully finance a campaign or . but i think it is the right track. just as the idea of shortening the campaign is the right track. i hope that we will ultimatelyand this goes especially to my beloved friend from rhode island do something about the fantastic costs of radio and television which has been breaking the backs of every candidate in terms of the campaign.
i thank the senator from vermont. ial study commission on international radio broadcasting. is also important. the commission was headed by milton eisenhower and made its report in february 1973. the report. on page 51. deals with this very question: the conclusion of the commission that it would be a mistake to involve european governments in contributing to the financing of the broadcast operations of the two radios does  constitute rejection of the principle of cost sharing. in essence. that is what the senator from illis and i have said.
. a courageous and gifted reporter is gone. the fourth estate and the nation are poorer without frank mcgee. mr. mcgee practiced a keen and incisive journalism which gained the respect of all who saw his work. his professionalism was marked with a quiet understatement. he respected his audience to judge the facts objectivelyand thats how he delivered them. this respect was returned to him by millions of viewers. in the 1950s. television journalism was still in its formative stages. frank mcgees thorough and thoughtful practice of the journalistic art did much literally to transform the intellectual impact of the television media. he was a man of integrity. a reporter of great stature. mrs. javits and my heartfelt sympathy goes to his widow. his son and daughter. his mother and family upon this tragic loss. i ask unanimous consent that the obituary of frank mcgee which was printed in the new york times of april 18. 1974. be printed in the record.
. the 100th anniversary of the premiere of the opera "carmen." as staged by opera diva regina resnik. will be commemorated by a special television presentation on monday evening. march 10. 8 to 9:30 oclock e.s.t.. over the public broadcasting service. new yorks wnet13 will originate the program through a grant from xerox corp. entitled "carmen: the dream and the density." the program interweaves the tragic story of "carmen" composer georges bizet with the daytoday rehearsals and preparation for a new production of his most famous work at the hamburg state opera in germany. it has been highly praised by critics in england and germany. where the program has been telecast. miss resnik. a new yorker. who has sung the title role in "carmen" some 250 times since making her debut at new yorks metropolitan opera in 1944. was invited to stage the new production by the director of the hamburg opera company. she in turn invited arbit blatas. a wellkn impressionist painter. to design the startling new sets and costumes. two internationally kn singers star in the program. huguette tourangeau. a french canadian. appears as carmen and placido domingo. one of the metropolitan operas foremost tes. sings don jose. the brief history of bizet is incorporated into the special to heighten viewers understanding and enjoyment of miss resniks concept. the producers recreate the original night of "carmen" at the opera comique in paris in 1875. when the audience. expecting the traditional light heroine in a light artificial plot. booed lustily at what has been called "this first stage venture into the world of passion and tragedy." the program es that bizet died 3 months later.  king that "carmen" would become the worlds most popular opera.
 and director of television documentaries. to receive the prestigious alfred i. dupontcolumbia university award for the "abc news close up" series. i ask unanimouus consent that the full text of the american broadcasting co. release. with respect to the anncement of the award. given in recognition of the distinguished and educational corporations description contribution of this new series. be printed in the record.
i wish to read one paragraph from a piece of that kind published in the los angeles times on sunday. june 8. 1975. written by the prominent ecoist robert lecage. it reads as follows: general motors plans model changes three years in advance. your telephone company buys whole forests to supply telephone poles 10 or 15 years in the future. prudent parents begin saving for college shortly after the blessed event. june -.5. 1975 only the federal government. among huge administrative entities. . is a brandnew ination. to take effect in 1976.  even in 1975.
. i answered exactly the same question for the senator from west virginia . and i will try to repeat exactly what i said. the senator may compare it in the record. it is my judgment. and the best judgment i can make to my colleague. realizing that our colleagues will act on the collective judgment of many people here. including myself. that so long as the united states has any exposure in respect of this bill. which is for a maximum of 3 years. for a maximum of $2.3 billion in shortterm credit. repayable each year. that it is my belief and it is my conviction that new york will remain viable within that exposure limit. because the exposure is based upon a whole set of things other people must do and if they do  do it there is deal by the united states or anyone else. so long as we have exposure. in my judgment. new york can make those conditions come true. including the repayments. the second part of the senators question. and i understand it very well. is why should we have this exposure if it will  result in putting new york on some kind of a basis where they will continue to be the top city and a big taxpayer. et cetera. that i answer as follows: given this opportunity and given the fact that the business community of new york  realizes how bad the situation is. i see the very real likelihood that the business community will take over where the city of new york leaves off because of the fact that it will be very heavily stripped of the ability to go back in the credit markets for a time varying from 3 years to an indeterminant period. i can tell which it will be. the business community will step in for the following reasons: first. their investments are very great in the city. we have $100 billion of assessed value of real estate. in addition. many of these institutions are there so that it would take an emous uprooting to take them out. whether it is communications. transportation. television networks. stock exchange. and many other things. i believe that they will invest this period of time of 2 to 3 years in order to see whether the situation in new york city can be brought around to where it is viable for them as well. i believe in that respect what has been put together in this package will be selffulfilling. in other words. the city will have to so constrict its own operations. its own expenditures. its trouble has been that its heart has been bigger than its pocketbook. and it just can be done. in my judgment the citizens of new york will engage in egh volunteer activities in terms of the demands made upon their municipality. that we will have after the 3 years. i do  think the united states is gambling a penny. i am sure of that from my own analysis of the situation. but in my judgment. after the 3 years. this ability to survive for 3 years will give us a chance. and we will do our utmost. because i think we have really been beaten up pretty hard on this one. to make it good. therefore. i say to the united states and to our colleague as a senator of the united states. with a conscience for the country. it is worth the investment because it will give us a chance to continue to be the taxpaying entity and the operating entity that we have been and which we showed serious danger of ceasing to be in this situation. and the united states will lose hing by this exposure.
. i think a couple of things need to be made clear before we let this matter sit where it is. i do  construe my own vote in support of senator burdicks amendment as representing any denial to any group of damaged people of their recovery. in other words. suppose that the amounts involved for individual consumers are very small. let us. just for the sake of argument. say it is $10 a radio or television set. or it could even be less. there is  any reason in the world why a court can find those damages and make the people write a letter or send in an affidavit and get their $10. but the court would require. before it made a decree assessing damage. some definitive proof of that kind of damage. for example. 500.000 television sets were sold in a given place and so there is $5 million to be assessed. the difficulty with the provision of the bill is that it is left to what is called here "on the basis of statistical or sampling methods." it makes it possible to have huge decrees for damages which will  actually be collected. but at the same time can hang on as a liability for years. that is the only real difference. i hope. if we can do anything about it here. that in conference. the conferees will bear that in mind. there is use in havingwe can take the tetracycline case as an examplean emous decree. but when we come down to the day of collection. there may  be that many plaintiffs who can prove they are entitled to any part of it. i think senator burdick. therefore. has given us a reasonable way out. he says have a decree which has the amount that is actually proven in damages and if you feel the defendant has been unjustly enriched. sock him with a fine. that seems to be the proper and intelligent way. do  try to break him with huge decrees on which ody may collect that much. that is what is motivating me. it is a practical thing. as we are working very hard here to correct conscienceless practices in american businesses. we must. at the same time. be very cautious about sustaining american business in its legitimate claims for solvency. we simply can have these absolutely openended speculative decrees. even if they will stand up constitutionally. this is the reason that i have supported senator burdick. i think what senator chiles has just said is correct: we are  very far apart at all. the question is. shall the decree be based upon statistical or sampling methods and then let the question of who collects be resolved after the decree is entered. or shall the decree reflect. in the first instance. a realistic situation. i prefer the latter. my colleagues may prefer the former. with my own understanding of the business community and withstanding the fact that i have shown on a thousand votes that i am  a bit concerned about hitting them and hitting them hard when we should. the question is. when we do  have to. why do it. that is the way this particular provision appeals to me.
. i ask unanimous consent that an excerpted version of an address by arthur c. clark at convocation on communications celebrating the centennial of the telephone held at the massachusetts institute of techogy. march 910. 1976. be printed in the record. the convocation was sponsored by the american telephone & telegraph co. and mit. mr. clarke is the author of scores of popular science fiction works. was coauthor of the book and movie. "2001: a space odyssey." and is credited with having played an important role in the concept of the communications satellite.
. the group which is backing this bill essentially. having settled itself on problems yesterday respecting lobbying in the executive branch. has sent a letter to the members dated yesterday which deals with our position on senator metcalfs amendment. i wish to emphasize that there are ideological problems between us. senator metcalf believes in a lobbying reform bill. and we do. and an effective one. the difficulty is that we believe senator metcalfs amendment. in an effort to deal with the problems of union affiliates. to deal with the problem of the nader and other public interest organizations. excludes critically important elements of the bill which should  be excluded. senator risicoff has explained our position very admirably. we feel that lobbying is an hoable undertaking. we are idea blind as far as lobbying is concerned. in other words. we lobby for what we wish. whether for liberal causes. at least as popularly defined. or conservative causes. we expect the same rules for both. and that is what this really tests. we feel the proposal opened important loopholes in the bill. for example. the 25 oral communications as against 12 in a quarter. and the fact that on a given number of days a lobbying effort could be concentrated without being subject to the act under senator metcalfs amendment. likewise. by taking out the provision which we put in which would bring ralph naderfor whom i have great admirationunder this bill. and his organization. we would violate our goal of evenhandedness. we feel that the better way to approach thatand. essentially. this is the difference between the two amendmentsis to agglomerate the activities of affiliates and related organizations and require. as it were. a consolidated return. that is the essence of the amendment which senator muskie and i presented. let us say that the principal lobbying organization is a trade union or a trade association. with union locals. and even regional organizations. or a trade association with local trade associations. when the principal organization essentially controls. in lobbying terms. the activities of the local organization. it may agglomerate the totality of the lobbying activities. the requirements then become very mi in terms of the details of their own activities. we exclude all telephone contacts. and stick only to the oral in person communications. we also simplify other matters as senator metcalf has done respecting receptions. dinners. et cetera. and simplify the matter of reporting when many people are involved in a given conference. that would under the original bill proliferate the number of oral communications. there is question here about purpose or intent or design or enthusiasm for control respecting public disclosures as to lobbying on both sides. but the essential thrust of senator metcalfs approach is to so relax the rules as to allow the local organization. which is part of the total national organization. to operate free of the law. we bring it under the law. but we bring it under by the efficient. we think. way of a consolidated returnto give the analogy to the tax system. the other things are refinements. we may have a view that a particular luncheon or dinner or reception should be based on a per person basis. i personally would prefer that it be that way. rather than a total of $500. or something like that. because that would only. for example. allow 50 people at $10 a head. which is probably quite impractical. but the fundamental thrust. we do  agree on. so. in my judgment. we have to leave it up to the senate. again. just to repeat and end my time. the fundamental thrust being that we propose to agglomerate the information on locals by a report by the principal. lobbying from them. to wit. the head organization. we. therefore. do  automatically exclude people who do  lobby in washington. we intend. precisely. to reach everybody who has that kind of dominant lobbying position. that is the essential thrust of ours as contrasted with the kind of tailoring of the proposition that local entities are  included in the law. i hope very much the senate will support our position.
i thank the chair. the modified amendment is as follows: on page 1 of amendment  1830 strike lines 4 through page 3. line 5 and insert in lieu thereof: (2) an organization. other than an organization described in subsection (f) of this section which engages on its own behalf. or on behalf of its members. in twelve or more oral lobbying communications in any quarterly period. acting through its own paid officers. paid directors. or paid employees. for purposes of determining whether any organization is a lobbyist under this paragraph. there shall be excluded any communication with a member of congress. or an individual on the personal staff of such member. representing the state. or the congressional district within the state. in which such organization has its principal place of business. and. further. there shall be excluded any communication initiated by congress whereby the organization provides information or opinions to congress solely at the request of congress. or .(f) any organization that would otherwise be a lobbyist solely as a result of this paragraph 3 of this section shall  be a lobbyist for purposes of this act if (i) the comptroller general determines that the organization is a controlled local affiliate of a parent voluntary membership organization. the comptroller general shall  designate any organization a controlled local affiliate if he determines that it is the intent of the parent organization to use such a designation as a means to evade. in whole or in part. the requirements of this act. the comptroller general shall issue any such determination later than 30 days following the submission of a request for such determination. (ii) the paid officers. paid directors. and paid employees of the controlled local affiliate engage in less than 12 in person oral lobbying communications in the quarter. and (iii) the parent voluntary membership organization is a lobbyist which includes on its quarterly report all the information on the lobbying activities of the controlled local affiliate described in subsection (g) of this section. "(g) a parent voluntary membership organization may also provide the following additional information about the lobbying activities of any of its controlled local affiliates described in subsection (f) of section 3 of the act: (1) the identity of the affiliate and the approximate number of individuals who are members of that affiliate. and the approximate number of organizations which are members of the affiliate. (2) a description of each issue in connection with which the lobbyist urged. requested. or required the affiliate to engage in one or more lobbying communications or solicitations. and (3) a report of any gifts by the affiliate or its officers. directors. or employees. which the affiliate would otherwise be required as a lobbyist to report pursuant to section 7." "(1) for purposes of subsection (g) "controlled local affiliate" means a local voluntary membership organization whose lobbying activities and policies are. either by formal agreement. or by practice. subject to the control of a parent voluntary membership organization with whom the affiliate is related through bylaws. charters or similar agreements. in determining whether an organization is a controlled local affiliate the comptroller general shall consider. among other factors. whether the parent may control what position the affiliate may take on an issue before congress. and whether the parent may require the affiliate to engage. or  to engage. in particular lobbying communications or solicitations." strike page 3. line 9 of amendment  1830 through line 7 on page 6. strike line 10 of page 6 of amendment  1830 through line 13 of page 9 and insert in lieu thereof: hoarium and a description of the gift. loan. or hoarium and its amount or value. except that in the case of a gift described in subsection (d) the recipients need  be named individually. but may be described by appropriate categories." (b) the requirements of this section shall apply(1) to any gift or loan of money. or any hoarium. made during the quarterly period by the lobbyist. by any officer. director. or employee of the lobbyist. or by any legislative agent on behalf of the lobbyist. which exceeds $10 in amount. (2) to any gift or loan of any goods. services. or any other thing of value made during the quarterly period. by the lobbyist. or by a legislative agent on behalf of the lobbyist. including food. lodging. transportation or entertainment. which exceeds $10 in value. (3) to any gift or loan of any goods. services. or any other thing of value made during the quarterly period by any officer. director. or employee of the lobbyist or by a legislative agent on behalf of the lobbyist. which exceeds $10 in value and which the officer. director. employee. or legislative agent has taken or will take. in whole or in part. as a deduction under section 162 or 212 of the internal revenue code. where the aggregate value of all the gifts. loans. or hoariums described in paragraphs (1). (2). and (3) made by the lobbyist. or by the officers. directors. employees. or legislative agents of the lobbyist. to any individual member. officer. or employee of congress exceeds $50 in amount or value. (c) the requirements of this section shall also apply to any gift or loan of any goods. services. or any other thing of value. including food. lodging. transportation. or entertainment. made during the quarterly period by an officer. director or employee of the lobbyist. or by a legislative agent on behalf of the lobbyist. which exceeds $100 in value. "(d) the requirements of this section shall also apply to any reception. dinner. or other similar event paid for. in whole or in part. by the lobbyist for members. officers. or employees of congress. where the total cost of the event exceeds $500." (e) this section shall  apply to any loan made on terms and conditions that are more favorable than available generally. or to any gift or loan to any individual who is an immediate member of the family of the do or lender. or to any contribution to a candidate as defined in section 431(e) of title 2. united states code. strike line 7 of page 7 of amendment  1830 through line 13 of page 9. strike line 10 of page 10 of amendment  1830 through page 11. line 25.
i would  say that. in some cases. if it is dealing with oil jobbing. i suppose. or merchandising. then the capital impact might be very small. on the other hand. if it is dealing with drilling and extraction. it might be large. i just do  k egh about the details of the oil business to respond to that. mr. mcintyite. one of the charges of the senator. as i understand it. would be that the employee working for xyz insurance company would  be anywhere near as likely to benefit from the plan as the employee of the cb telephone co..
. i am disappointed at the objection. although i am  with senator case in this matter. if senator case feels that he was  consulted and did  have an opportunity to say he did  want the matter rereferred his views should be sustained by us. he is the ranking member of the committee. i am the ranking member of a number of committees myself. i think one of the reasons one is a ranking member is in order to have this kind of opportunity. i am sorry about this. i do  blame anyone because everyone has his own good and sufficient reasons for doing what he is doing and i do  challenge for a moment the sincerity. good faith. or judgment that it is in the highest public interest of any senator on the floor. including my beloved colleague and chairman of the committee. but i am sorry about it. * i suggest this to senator case and to senator sparkman. as we are having this out publicly. we might as well have it out publicly. there is reason why dr. kissinger can appear before the committee tomorrow. or today. and develop his thesis even though the matter is reported. first. the committee may feel free to take whatever action it chooses. * and i do  k that the parliamentary situation makes possible any action by the committee to bring this back to the committee. but that certainly can be explored. in addition. the action of the committee is simply advisory to the senate. as a matter of fact. under the rule which applies to this particular case. if the committee did  act at all. the matter could be brought up by a motion to discharge the committee which would add 1 hour of debate and be handled de o. and it is of the highest priority. so i do  think. if i may say to senator case:. anything whatever is lost. at least in my opinion. but i appreciate. as i have just stated. i appreciate very much his view. i am going to explain this telephone thing. too. if i may.
january 22. it is in the record. dr. marshall said: in my remarks at my confirmation hearing. i said that i would  be in favor of military strikes. or military unions per se. my remarks were directed more toward the institution of certain practices that might improve the military. i do believe that the peacetime military can benefit from improved communication . procedures. somewhat analogous to grievance procedures. whereby commanders are made aware of the problems affecting personnel. as i stated. it is often difficult to get accurate. information through a chain of command and that improvement in communications mechanisms mightbe beneficial. the only reason i read that is that i just wanted to clear the situation. he did say. "i want to think it over." then he did think it over. and this is what he said. so my only judgment is that. in fairness. the comment ought to be inclusive of what he said in the letter. that is the only thing i was. calling to senator hatchs attention.
for the senators further information. i have already looked over some of the proposed amendments to this amendment which senator helos was gracious egh to give me. and i find some of them quite satisfactory. i have every desire to advance this.  based on the fundamental proposition that we have been highly improvident. but that it is time we grew up and became as mature in our judgment as american telephone & telegraph co.. or the united states steel corp.. or sears. roebuck. that time has  arrived. as i say. i welcome very much the challenge. and i hope the senate will make its decision in the light of mature consideration.
i was once asked on a television program about some very serious political decision. whether i would run for gover. and i said. "if i am going to commit harakiri. it wont be on this program." i think that applies here. senator moynihan. i would never. whether i am right or wrong. challenge your credentials to speak for new york. all i meant to sayand you k i am much older than you and have been in our town a long timewas just that i. too. had heavy on my heart the same considerations which you have. i came to a different conclusion. but i have the same considerations.
. upon that. i rest my case. the point of senate debate on the law and the facts. and the policy is to persuade and convince. i respectfully submit that the persuading and the convincing has been done.  by the oponents. but by the proponents. and that the revolution which they envisaged on the part of the american people has  occurred at all. on the contrary. this debate has gotten quieter and quieter. as witness the empty galleries and the empty press gallery. the fact that we transmit it over the radio may be a little more of a bore than it is an amusement to most of the american people who are listening to the radio because it has been protracted. probably beyond the point of real instruction. but. be that as it may. i am a proponent.  an opponent. and the opponents of this treaty  only have every right. but is their duty. i have said that before. to debate it to the full extent that they feel that it ought to be debated.
. i shall read one sentence from that article: the average taiwaneses daily intake of 2.800 calories and 77 grams of protein is the highest in asia. including japan. life expectancy has climbed from 58 years in 1953 to 71. and only a few households do  boast an icebox in the kitchen. a television set in the living room and a motorbike outside the front door. what a sensation for asia. and more power to it.
