 at all. because the bill would deal only with rights which are civil rights or public rights. it would  deal with private rights. i have gone to great pains for years to make it crystal clear that i have desire. withstanding my ardent advocacy of this cause. ever to interfere with private rights privately enjoyed. the senator refers to what would be a social club. or perhaps a golf club. perhaps one day our law will mature in that direction. but it certainly has  done so up to this time. as things  stand. a person may invite to dinner. may play golf with. or may play tennis with anyone he chooses. or may ask him to join a club or deny him the right to join a club. that is his business. as an example. in the case of the forest hills club. involving the son of ralph bunche. as the senator remembers. there was a great public outcry. in that public outcry. at time did any responsible person raise an issue of law. that case did raise an issue of morality. in view of the fact that forest hills. by national consent. was the site of the tennis championships. i make that point because i do  think that any serious personi am certainly deeply serious in this regard. as the senator ks. as is the senator from arizonahas ever considered that the ambit of any "part iii" would extend to clubs such as the senator defines.
. i have listened with the greatest interest to the debate which has taken place so far on the bill. i have been impressed. with respect to the debate. particularly with one thing. there is very grave danger in the debate of missing the forest for the trees. i realize as well as any of my colleagues the deep feelings which individual senators have about situations in their states and in certain political subdivisions of their states. i understand the reasons for their feelings and their duty. both morally and legally. to defend in every way the rights of those political subdivisions and states. i recognize the wisdom. astuteness. and skill with which they do this. the provisions of this bill. as i stated yesterday. are designed. we should hope. to be consistent with the views of a great majority of the committee. which has undertaken the burden of proof to substantiate the need for this bill. we should hope that the provisions of this bill are adequate to enable states and subdivisions which should  be under the provisions of the bill to come out from under these provisions. we should hope that the practices that we have set up. by which we would permit this procedure. are reasonably to be availed of. as i stated yesterday. if that is  so. and there are deep feelings upon that subject. and it can be shown to us howwithout basically changing the effort that we are engaged inwe can more greatly facilitate a determination as to which counties and states should  be under the statute. i would welcome the information. i do  claim to be the seat of all kledge or the last word in legislative draftsmanship or legislative ideas. i do  believe that the attorney general is. i do  believe that any one person is. matter how competent. skilled. or experienced he may be. the process of debate has the emous advantage of enabling people whose interests are adversely affected to develop an idea which otherwise may never have been received. i welcome it. i repeat what i have said many times. to me. proudest words in the english language are. "i am persuaded." hing would please me more than to find arrangements by which accommodations may be made without destroying the fundamental intent of the bill. i e the presence in the chamber of the distinguished senator from florida . we had a discussion yesterday with respect to untriggering the trigger. it is a fact that as to the particular trigger that i was discussing with the senator at that timethe trigger of less than 25 percent of the negroes or whites registered to vote in a particular areasome question might be raised in the operative sections of the proposed law as to how a county or a state which feels that it should  be covered by the law can get out of it. as things  stand. the construction of a great majority of the committee membersin which construction i have joined. because. as is always true. we must seek some unanimityis that it is possible to untrigger that trigger. that provision is contained in section 4(a) (2). the socalled 60 percent provision. which provides that where there is a demonstration that 60 percent of the people have finally voted and that discrimination is being practiced. that particular county or state can get out from under coverage.
