s to the peopletopeople contacts this era. as other in recorded history. the third great force of change is. of of the peace corps. and of the more than a is the era of sudden and basic change. it course. the scientific revolution which we million individual american citizens who is true. of course. that there have always been characterize loosely as the nuclear age. the are abroad on every day of every year. forces of change. the course of history has discoveries of the past 20 years exceed. in we demonstrate. by this structure of combeen determined by whether such changes their potential impact upon human life. all munication. a constant willingness hoably could be absorbed and therefore came peace- the developments of all the thousands of to negotiate any matter. any time. in the fully. or whether they demanded more flexi- preceding years of human history. the im- interests of peace with justice. bility than the particular society involved plications of the atom alone stagger the since we recognize. however. that good will was capable of showing. in which case they imaginationunlimited. unending power for can in itself safeguard the peace or guarcame violently by war or revolution. this is peace that could create a world without antee our own freedom. we must and do a historic pattern. and is fundamentally want. or unlimitable. allending power. for build strength elsewhere.  different today. war that can produce a world without life. the first place we build is in our own miliwhat is different. however. is that never science has offered us health and old age tary establishment. it will remain an absobefore in history has the ability of com- where formerly was sickness and disease and lute prerequisite to the peace and security munications. transportation. and techogy death. these blessings have come inex- of the world. to the preservation of our nabeen sufficient to permit the forces of change tricably mixed with the new spectre of over- tion and to the success of our diplomacy that to affect more than a relatively small area of population. every triumph in the laboratory our military power continue second to e. the world at any one time. today. the im- spawns new problems in applying it to the our armed strength today. however. is far plications and every effect of the great forces affairs of men. and each one challenges the more than national. and our military estabof change are immediately global. ability of existing social and political in- lishment is charged with a trust for the also. never before has there been more stitutions to meet this everquickening security of many other nations. it is dethan one. or occasionally two. fundamental tempo of change. pendent. in turn. for its effective functionforces of change operating at any one time our first halting steps into outer space are ing upon their cooperation. to alter the fabric of society. today there  less significant for the future. today the means by which we practice this coare at least four which i think are clearly it is mechanical satellites and missiles on operation is our worldwide system of alidentifiable. how well we understand and the fringe of our own worlds atmosphere. liances with morethan 40 other nations. such political and military arrangements have formed the shield to meet. and largely to absorb the shock of overt communist military and political aggression which has provided the major threat of the decade and a half just past. however. these more traditional instruments of foreign policy may maintain peace. but they do  by themselves build peace in the changing world of today. they do  meet the problems of poverty and hunger and illness that beset threefourths of the worlds population. and thereby press upon the stability both of the new nations and of all political institutions. for these reasons. our diplomacy has devised a new dimension of ecoic assistance. we have been hopeful that other peoples might regard with favor and adopt our essential institutions. we have never sought by force or subversion to remold the world in our own image. we have clearly recognized. however. that an interdependent world. the existence of western institutions is imperiled unless the have countries are provided the kledge. the incentive. and the means to choose some route other than that offered by communism to find ecoic freedom without sacrificing political liberty and human dignity. lastly. we are  content with a world where militarily we must strain just to preserve a minimum security and where the cost of maintaining a grim arms balance absorbs our best efforts. consumes our substance and prevasively shadows our future. so we strive for dependable disarmament. it is easy to become discouraged in this search. and it is tempting to seek some progressany progress--by agreeing to just a little more than is safe. but the stakes are too high for us either to stop trying. or to start gambling. the failure to find a sound basis for stopping the nuclear arms race may be as sure a way to end the world as agreeing to a wrong way. we dare  be more than reasonable.  less than hopeful. iv these are the goals of our foreign policy. we seek to achieve them.  haphazardly. but following the clear moral direction of our cultural. political. and religious heritage. it is  always easy. however. to find the course of principle in foreign affairs. in. deed. in the infinitely complex decisions which arise from day to day. it is often next to impossible even to identify what is right and what is wrong. this does  relieve us of the responsibility constantly to try to do soand to act accordingly. morality. fortunately. is  like badtasting medicine. there is  necessarily a difference between our own interests and the dictates of conscience. on the contrary. one of our distinguished statemen has concluded "that in doing good we learn we can also do very well. and in seeking to do well. we find we do much good." this is a simple and lucid way of saying that in a world where survival and success are dependent as much upon the rightness of what we fight for as whether we win. policy will serve the united states which does  also serve the cause of a just peace in freedom for all men everywhere.
