the senator from new york ks that the department of justice has testified in favor of and has supported the bill. i believe that the constitution clearly entitles government departments. pursuant to directions of the president. to express their views upon pending legislation. i have answered the senators question fully by pointing out that in that case the federal government controls the expenditure of money. if we do  like itand congress has done this before in connection with activities of government departmentswe can reduce appropriations or eliminate them entirely. we have such choice in the case of the state of mississippi. which. under automatic federal programs based on the per capita income of its people. receives money from the federal government. and then diverts its own funds to this kind of activity. an activity which we have a right to disapprove because we do  have the same element of absolute control over it that we have over expenditures in the department of justice.
 is entitled to choose a conservative or strict constructionist for the supreme court. but this does  preclude me from making a substantive finding on the qluestion of judge carswells qualifications to sit on the high court. many senators voted against judge haynsworths confirmation for reasons of conflict of interest. or because they strongly opposed his record in labor cases. my opposition. however. was based primarily on his insensitivity to the real meaning of equal protection when it comes to racial segregation. in anncing my decision on judge haynsworth. i stated that i had reached this conclusion because "his views on the application of the constitution to the most critical constitutional question of our timeracial segregationare so consistently insensitive to the centuriesold injustice which we as a nation have caused our black citizens to bear. that i could  support the introduction of his judicial philosophy into the nations highest court." and that is the reason that i annce my opposition to judge carswells confirnation today. indeed. the record in the case of judge carswell also contains statements and actions of the inee as a private citizen which reinforce my impression that he will  as a justice be diligent in extending equal protection of the law to all our citizens in civil rights cases.
s state of the union message says: i also support legislation to strengthen the enforcement powers of the eeoc by providing the commission with authority to seek court enforcement of its decisions and by giving it jurisdiction over the hiring practices of state and local governments. so i think it is important to point out that the administration itself has this feeling about this particular proposition. and we have findings of fact. which i am sure the senator from ohio has discussed.  only of the u.s. civil rights commission. but from our own hearing record. as well. which indicate that this remedial power is needed. so far as actual serious discrimination is concerned. which is of a kind inhibited by the constitution and statute in respect of state and local employment. since we are dealing with an emous number of employees10 million. so it is really a very necessary part of the bill. i am very grateful that we have support of our position by the senator from ohio.
