 of the aflcio. which appears in the current issue of the american federationist. official magazine of the aflcio. in the interest of ascertaining whether there have been any changes from the position as stated in these documents. i took pains to check with representatives of organized labor the past few days and up to this very morning. i find that without a shadow of a doubt the position remains identical  to that which is outlined in both of these documents. there are those of us who may still have an open mind on the subject and would like to feel that we do  doubt the sincerity of the statements by various members of this house up to the present time. there should be question that labor is partisan. it represents one section of the country as against aher. there are lines of difference so far as race. color. or creed are concerned and we feel that this is the one voice that should be heard in the field of civil rights. . i  read that part of the statement of the executive council of the aflcio. statement by the aflcio executive coun-
. the people of vermont are extremely fortunate in having a sanely progressive gover. he is a farmer who ks the needs of the common folks and is serving all the people of the state to their entire satisfaction. he recently made a speech in syracuse. n. y.. at a banquet given in ho of the election of frank costello to the new york assembly. i call attention to a few of the pertinent points made in that address: if the republican party does  appeal to the millions of loyal but partisan citizens of our country. then there will be recourse for those citizens except to organize a new party. it is high time for the republican party to discard the tall hat and get itself a blue shirt. we might as well admit that. although our party is  alone in this respect. we have in some of the high seats those who have . do . and never can represent the ordinary fellow because they do  k how he thinks. we have just got to put in their places conscientious men and women from the ranks of labor and agriculture. men and women who work for a living and k what a days work and a dollar are. and the leaders of the new republicanism must take orders from one but the american people. we must get it out of the heads of the voters that we are the official organization of the holding companies and the speculators. if we do  do this. then tenmillion- or fifteenmilliondollar campaign fund is going to do us one bit of good in 1940. we have this opportunity. we can make the most of it or . i ask that the entire speech be printed in the record.
. the united states and especially new england have been hard hit. in recent years. by a continuing deterioration in the textile industry. because of shutdowns and cutbacks in our new england textile industry communities and many homes have been seriously affected. in those instances where the affected wage earner has spent most of his adult life working in the textile industry reemployment in a new field is exceedingly difficult and in many instances can be accomplished. as a result. large numbers of senior employees are unemployable. in addition to the incentives offered to the textile industry by other states which has resulted in considerable migration. and a tremendous increase in the use of synthetics. one of the important forces adversely influencing the textile industry has been the importation of goods from low wage countries. cotton cloth imports during the 195860 period show an increase of approximately 175 percent while imports of cotton yarn for the same period are up almost 1.500 percent. the 1960s have been called a decade of decisions for the united states. we must soon decide how we are going to save some of our basic industriesindustries vital to our ecoy and essential to our securityor we must be prepared to accept the responsibility for their demise. the flow of foreign imports is critical to many of our industries. american business and labor are looking to this administration and congress for the leadership and direction that is needed. we dare  postpone the hour of decision.
let me give you the question: does the fundamental law require the national labor relations board in unfair labor practice cases to review the testimony adduced before the hearing examiner. and his findings upon exceptions by one of the parties.
. there has been a great deal of discussion in the congress and in the press about the needs of our older citizens. dozens of approaches have been suggested by public and private persons to meet the needs of these men and women. it seems to me that the congress has consistently iged one avenue to greater financial security which is more obvious than any other. i refer to the stringent income limitation  imposed on recipients of social security benefits and which i propose to ease in the bill i today am introducing. the present limitation stifles the initiative of our older citizens. it erroneously presupposes a "rocking chair at 65" attitude which deprives our nation of the skills of many people who still have a great deal to contribute to our ecoy and growth. even more important is that the current limitation. especially for those receiving lower benefit amounts. means real ecoic hardship. the inequity is compounded by the fact that the outside earnings test applies only to earned income. thus. one man will have his benefits cut off because he is fortunate egh to have a job. while his neighbor. whose income is from stocks and bonds. receives all of his social security benefits without question. my bill would permit a social security recipient to increase his outside job income to $1.800 annually without loss of benefits. i am most anxious that my colleagues on the ways and means committee take action on the measure so that senior american citizens can have reasonable security in their retirement years.
 kennedy must continue to be our standard for wage decisions. ideally. we would prefer that government remain entirely neutral in the decisionmaking process that takes place in the private sector. but we must accept the fact that ecoic pressure at home and crises around the world demand the careful cooperation of business. labor. and government. the proposed guideposts will  guarantee wageprice stability and ecoic growth. but in my judgment. they represent reasonable standards to guide private decisionmakers in making responsible judgments in the public intrest. the administration should  use these voluntary standards as an excuse for questionable attempts at enforcement. such recent attempts indicate that we need to review our stockpiling policy. they do  warrant abandonment of the guideposts. labor should  set itself above the national interest in sustaining ecoic growth within a framework of restraint. the times demand responsibility from us all.
s board supported. so the strike continues. whatever settlement is finally arrived at is bound to be even further from the administration wageprice guidelines than the package which was turned down. this kind of irresponsibility clearly calls for immediate action by the congress. i am happy to see that both the education and labor committee and the senate labor and public welfare committee are considering draft legislation. i hope it will be brought to the floor promptly so that the strike can be halted. this is the immediate concern. let us get the planes back in the air. then we can move to an early consideration of the larger issues involved. there have been too many of these strikes. it is the urgent task of the congress to develop the legal mechanism to prevent the interruption of essential public services in the future.
. i am pleased to join with the gentleman from missouri and my other colleagues on this side of the aisle in reintroducing the human investment act. in my judgment. it is one of the most thoughtful and wellconceived legislative ideas to emerge from the 89th congress. and i hope that it will receive the favorable consideration of the 90th congress. this proposal is based on the sound premise that the business community has developed the resources over the years to provide the most effective and uptodate training. the idea has particular merit in that the trainee is assured of employment at the completion of his course. this is the most serious weakness of governmentsponsored programs. too often the trainees are disillusioned when they can find market for their hardwon skills. the changes that have been made in the bill since the last congress have strengthened it and made it even more worthy of full consideration by the congress. when that consideration comes. i hope that we can turn our attention to the possibility of linking the provision of training by private industry to potential reductions in the cost of unemployment compensation program. in a letter to the miity leader. the gentleman from michigan . which i have made available to my republican colleagues. i suggested that we might reduce industry contributions to the unemployment compensation system for every individual in training by that firm. here is aher potential source of needed training facilities. i congratulate mr. curtis for his initiative in this area.
. i am. today. introducing legislation to prohibit discrimination in employment. job placement. and membership in a labor organization on the basis of age. this bill. will. in my judgment. eliminate a glaring gap in the present structure of our labor laws. at the present time. it is estimated that about 27 percent of the unemployed in this country are 45 years of age or older. i can believe that there are  positions that these men and women can fill in our soclety. they should  be prevented from doing so due to an arbitrary insistence on age limitations. this bill would make it a violation of the fair labor standards act for any employer with 50 or more employees to "refuse to hire. discharge. or otherwise discriminate against any person 45 years of age or older with respect to the terms. conditions or privileges of employment due to age. when age is  a bona fide occupational qualification reasonably necessary to the mal operation of the business or enterprise." it would also outlaw the use by an employer of an employment agency which discriminated on a similar basis of age. and. finally. it would prevent labor organizations with 50 or more members from refusing membership. or creating classifications of membership that could hinder employment. for men and women 45 years of age or older. at the present time there are a number of states which. have such laws on the books. they are  always enforced adequately. and many states have such laws at all. the standardization of such an age discrimination ban is as important to enlightened labormanagement relations as standards of wages and working conditions. i hope that the congress will act promptly to correct this situation.
. i want to take this opportunity to join with my colleagues here this aftern in expressing deep concern over the magnitude of the problems facing our american textile industry. we in new england are well aware of the vast impact of this industry on our local and regional ecoies. new england textile mills and plants alone employ over 186.000 people and in the commonwealth of massachusetts. the textileapparel industry includes 1.557 mills and plants. 96.500 jobs and nearly 14 percent of the total manufacturing in the state. finally. and just as striking is the fact that in my own home city of lowell. mass.. nearly 30 percent of the total city employment is related to this industry. viewing the industry across the country. it is quite evident that while some progress has been made in the past 5 years. the outlook is far from stable. prices have been falling while those in most other industries have been rising. at the same time. the number of new orders has decreased and the inventories continue to back up. due to a number of factors. e the least of which is the wage scale. the overall industry is finding it increasingly difficult to compete with foreign imports. this is true with respect to cotton. wool. and manmade textiles. the situation is serious and the time to act is . i want to commend the house textile delegation and the representatives of the industry who have so ably presented the case to the congress. it is my hope that the house will study the situation in great detail and will  hesitate to respond to the problems in a positive. forceful manner.
. i would like to draw to the attention of my colleagues an editorial appearing in this mornings washington post. the editorial. entitled "allvolunteer army." praises our colleagues congressmen stafford. horton. schweiker. shriver. and whalen for presenting an "impressive case for moving toward allvolunteer armed forces within 2 to 5 years." the congressmens book. "how to end the draft." was published earlier this week and contains a compelling 31point program for reducing draft calls down to zero. in focusing on the proposals for raising the initial pay for recruits up to the minimum wage levels. the editorial agrees with the congressmens conclusion thatwe  only compel young men to serve two years in the military forces against their will. but we compel them to undertake a considerable financial sacrifice while they are serving. this is wrong---and should be changed. on aher page of the washington post this morning was a most revealing item in reaction to this proposal. a poll taken by the gallup organization on their own initiative revealed an overwhelming agreement by 80 percent of the public that the proposal put forth in "how to end the draft" to raise the level of pay to the minimum wage should be instituted. there is a natural tendency. however. to concentrate on the level of wages when discussing steps toward an allvolunteer army. it is important to e that the program put forth by the congressmen contains a broad spectrum of reform and ination in such fields as standards for enlistment. recruiting procedures. levels of forces. the quality of a soldiers life. and the overall structure and form of military pay. it should  go unmentioned that many proposals contained in the book. might. in fact. have a more dynamic and longer lasting effect than the removal of the obstacle of low pay. one of the programs suggested. for instance. is a reorientation of the recruiting "quota" system to a system where goals for recruiters are the number of men actually needed and the use of the draft would be as a subsequent manpower pool. the dissemination by the selective service system of a comprehensive booklet prepared by the department of defense and containing a description of the over 40 entry alternatives into military service would go far to developing a meaningful recruiting program. it is programs like these that make the extensive study of "how to end the draft" a meaningful. responsible. and truly important document. i include the post editorial at this point in the record: [from the washington post. . 16. 1967]
. the dimensions of our ecoic dependence on the military establishment are staggering. in terms of our gross national product. our labor force. our federal budget. and numbers of our scientists and engineers. there is a vast involvement in defense and defenserelated activities. this concentration has been telling on our society and on the quality of our environment. the advances of science and techogyfrom detergents and colored tissue to lethal chemicals and the nuclear threatare outrunning our human and physical potential. in both available resources and in priorities for attention. these problems have gone unattended. until  they rival. if  supersede. the traditional issues of "national security" as urgent questions involving our very existence. we have created a vast disproportion which we must  equalize. conversion. in terms of both a rearrangement of national priorities and a shift of our ecoy into peace time production. is necessary to steer us away from the collision course toward which rapid techogical change and rapid social change is taking us. the prospect of ecoic conversion presents complex problems. but also magnificent opportunities. the needs of our cities. our rural areas. for education. health. and the improvement of our environment. present great challenges. a number of years ago i proposed that the united states utilize the demonstrated capacity of systems management techniques in the solution of defense public problems. i have introduced legislation to gear up the much needed longrange planning to enable our ecoy to shift smoothly into peacetime production. i am convinced that we can and must transfer this techogical capacity.  only out of ecoic necessity. but out of the pragmatic recognition that this capacity can be successfully harnessed for the solution of our societys most pressing human needs. we need both the foresight and the commitment to move ahead with this. barbara ward. british author. ecoist and educator. delivered a speech in chicago under the sponsorship of the chicago council on foreign relations. the english speaking union. and the adlai stevenson institute. in which she presented most effectively and compellingly the need for such foresight and commitment. i am hoed to present it here for the careful consideration of my colleagues: [from the new york post. jan. 3. 1970]
. the business community. and the labor community. there can be doubt that this body time and again has criticized the soviet union for its failure to pay its bills to international organizations. it seems to me the least likely way to gain influence is to pick up the marbles. walk away. and become a delinquent contributor.
. i have today introduced two bills and a joint resolution dealing with the problem of industrial and labor relations. subsequently i issued a statement describing their contents in general. i do  wish to take the time of the senate by reading a statement of that kind. i realize we have much business to do. and i do  wish to occupy the time of the senate unnecessarily. therefore at this time i ask unanimous consent that there may be printed in the body of the record the statement which i have prepared.
. in closing i want to say that this bill is being introduced by me in collaboration with my 2687 " very distinguished colleagues the senator from massachusetts the senator from new jersey [mr. snx]. the senator from oregon . the senator from new mexico . the senator from montana . the senator from pennsylvania . and the senator from california . we might have had many more with us in this undertaking. but we felt it inadvisable to delay any longer the introduction of the bill. this measure is typical of the best way to meet great problems which  confront us in.this country. we are dealing adays with great questions involving human relations. these same fundamental questions are involved in the subject matter of the bill i am  introducing. yet more and more people adays seem to be turning to the law. to legal compulsion. to solve these problems. these problems in the final analysis can never be solved by legal compulsion alone. that is one of the things we should remember constantly in dealing with all these questions involving human relations which are before us. our great job in this country at the present time is to make our free society in america work successfully. call it capitalism. call it the society of free competitive enterprise. call it the private profit systemit does  make any difference what we call it. our job is to make the system work. we have heard a great deal about communism on the floor of the senate in recent days. one hates and loathes communism more than i do. but i wish to say that the great answer we should make to communism. which will insure once and for all that there will be communism in this country. is to make our own great system work as effectively and successfully as it can be made to work. this can be done only through the full use of the voluntary processes which should always be available in this country. in the consideration of legislation of the type i am introducing. in the consideration of legislation dealing with labor relations. the basic test should be whether that legislation will permit and encourage the effective exercise of the voluntary processes. so that out of their use can come that understanding. that grasp. that appreciation of the viewpoint and position of one aher which will enable all of us to work together more happily in our own country.
. that i have been dealing with this type of amendment for about 9 years. if the senate will kindly pardon a refereaice to the state of new yorki k there are some who may  like to have us talk about the state of new yorki should like to refer to the experience we had in new york in connection with an amendment on this particular subject. this is  the first time we have had labor trouble in this country. it is  the first time we have had serious labor trouble which has threatened seriously to injure and paralyze our whole ecoy. we have to look back only 12 years to find a condition existing which was  greatly different from that which exists today. it will be remembered that in 1935 the wagner labor relations act was passed. and in 1937 it was declared constitutional. at the same time. in the state of new york an act of similar. nature. patterned after the wagner actwe called it the "baby wagner act"-was enacted. at that time there was everywhere a great deal of resistance to collective bargaining. by that i do  mean that all employers. or even a majority of them. were opposed to collective bargaining. i do  think they were. but there was tremendous resistance. those were the years. it will be recalled. of the sitdown strike. those were the years when. for one reason or aher. the whole area in which management and labor are engaged was a scene of turmoil. just as it had occurred to the authorities in washington. so it occurred to those in the state of new york that something should be done about it. there was dissatisfaction with the working of the new york state labor relations act. there were repercussions from opposition to the wagner act. through legislative procedure. it was determined to go into this area. to find out what could be done. i am telling the senators this. because it has a great deal to do with my own philosophy in this field. it is the story of the experience of a legislative body. to be sure.  the congress of the united states. but nevertheless a reputable legislative body in a large industrial state. i think it can be safely said that new york is as large as any industrial state. and i assume that our industry may be greater than that in any other state. it is the story of the experience of our state legislative body dealing with these same problems which faced us 12 years ago. in 1938. the legislature established a joint legislative committee. the approach in this field was rather interesting. it so happened that at that time the legislature of the state of new york was divided. the senate was controlled by the democratic party. the assembly by the republican party. but there were five american labor party representatives in the assembly. the committee was to be made up of eight members. three from the senate. five from the assembly. i happened to be the leader of the assembly at that particular time. if i may be pardoned a personal reference. that explains how i became involved in this matter. someone had to take charge of it. and the question arose as to who was to do it. i was largely responsible for the resolution by which. in the first instance. the setup had been brought about. and i was expected more or less to go ahead with it. the reason i did so was because i did  k anything about the whole matter. and i decided it was high time that i should learn something about it. the first thing that occurred to me was that under that kind of setup politics would have to be barred. if it became involved in a dispute between the democratic party and the republican party at that particular time. with the legislature constituted as it was. hing- but further harm to labor relations in new york state could be expected. the committee was organized in a rather ingenious fashion. there were three democrats. four republicans. and one member of the american labor party. we met to decide on certain rather fundamental principles. which i expect later to discuss in this debate. because they are very important in connection with what is  proposed. those principles guided the committees procedure for the ensuing 9 years. amazingly. it was then agreed to operate by unanimous consent. and from that time until the present the committee has always operated by unanimous consent. i am stating this background because of its relationship to the first proposed amendment. hearings were begun on a broad program which was supposed to be covered. there was a mandate from the legislature to investigate the entire english system of industrial relations. and the questions of profit sharing and incentive taxation. our final objective was to do whatever could be done to bring about the selfgovernment of industry through selfregulation. the first matter to come before the committee when it began its hearings was the identical proposition which today faces the senate. offhand. it seems like a very reasonable proposal to say by this process that one should be allowed to coerce anyone else. for any purpose. to begin with. that was my thought. i admit i was prejudiced. i admit that i perhaps had a tendency to feel that there should be a rather potent clamping down in this respect. we investigated. and we found. just as has been indicated in part by the memorandum i have read. that that view is  always to be accepted without qualification. if the senators will read carefully the amendment. which is very brief. it will be discovered that there is to be added to the bill the following provision: it shall be an unfair labor practice for a labor organization or its agents(1) to interfere withplease e the words "interfere with"restrain. or coerce an employer in the selection of his representatives for the purposes of collective bargaining or the adjustment of grievances. i have already pointed out the possibility that double jeopardy is involved. there can be question that such a possibility exists. let us consider the words "interfere with." how is a labor organization or anyone. trying to persuade others to join a labor organization. to operate. under the possible interpretation of the words "interfere with". if i. belonging to a union. were to sit down and try to talk with the senator from delaware [mr. bucx]. who does  belong to a union. and if i were to say to him that i think he should join. pointing out to him all the merits of unionization. and the great value of the tradeunion movement. doing my utmost to make a persuasive appeal. perhaps the senator would  like some feature of my appeal. possibly somebody might stir him to angeri k that would never happen in the case of the senior senator from delaware. but something might stir the senator to angerand cause him to decide to challange what i was trying to do. by going to the labor relations board or to one of its representatives. charging an unfair labor practice. because of my interference with what he might consider to be his right.
. in reply. i simply want to point out that circumstances alter cases. and that. very easily. the exact thing i mentioned might occur. supposing it to be the policy of the board at the present time to operate along the lines indicated by the senior senator from ohio. that does  mean it will always follow that policy.  does it necessarily follow that the attitude of the board toward labor organizations would always be such as to cause it to pursue the same course toward such organizations as might be pursued toward employers.
. i do  assume one thing or the other thing. i am pointing out the possibility of what might occur. moreover. as to this particular proposed amendment very easily there might be an interpretation placed on the language which might be exactly opposite to that which we here intend. at any rate. what would happen in this instance would be a definite restrictive influence on the part of all those who might endeavor to organize the employees of a plant or of a company. i do  believe in encouraging that sort of situation. i do  believe in placing ourselves in the position of espousing any course which may be taken to discourage the legitimate organization of employees in the trade union movement. that is definitely what could be construed in this instance. that is why labor over the course of the years has fought so bitterly against a provision of this nature because they had suspicion as to what interpretation sometime might be placed upon it. and as to its devastating effect upon what they might legitimately be endeavoring to do. the senator from minnesota in his remarks referred to a number of cases. i was interested in those cases. because two of them happened to have occurred in the state of new york. i happen to have heard of them. insofar as this proposed legislation is concerned. in at least one of those cases. and very likely in the other. i doubt that this provision or any of the provisions of this measure would apply. i happen to k that one of the concerns is engaged in intrastate business. and therefore this provision would seem  to apply in that case in any way whatsdever. and i assume that it would  .apply in many other cases which might be brought to our attention. if. in the city of new york. or in any other places. "goon" squads enter into a plant to disrupt business. or anything of that nature or character occurs. we can have only complete condemnation for such action. but the answer to activities of that kind is  a proposal such as this. as was pointed out in the memorandum i read. there would be weeks. months. perhaps more than a year before action would be taken under this provision. for such things as "goon" squads. the only answer is immediate and decisive police action. and if the authorities of the city of new york. or of any other place. are ified and do hing about such a situation. then i have hing but condemnation for such authorities. the trouble is that in too many localities people are taking too many of these absolutely unpardonable actions as a matter of course. i am a great believer in home rule. i am a great believer in solving problems which are distinctly home problems right at home. and  calling on the federal government every time something occurs which is to the dislike of the people at home. i certainly do  think that in matters of that kind. which are strictly .police matters. as is also mass picketing. the federal government should be dragged in to clean. up the mess. how is it going to be done. aisuming immediate action could be taken. how would it be taken. is it proposed to deputize under a united states marshal a sufficient number of persons to carry out the purpose and intent of the law. senators k what happened years ago in the coal fields when that was attempted. i do  need to point out what happened. is it proposed to call out the troops. the whole thing becomes ridiculous when it is analyzed as it should be analyzed. yet. those are the possibilities which are opened up by this type of amendment.
the only difference is that in the other cases immediate restraining orders may be issued and in the case under discussion. this is  the case. and a considerable amount of delay results in this particular instance. but that is quite the opposite of what i am talking about. i am talking about the tremendous possibilities for abuses that exist in this case. there is question that they do exist. in the case of strikes involving jurisdictional disputes and secondary boycotts unquestionably the overwhelming public opinion and approval of the people is behind the police power of the federal government. such things as strikes brought about by jurisdictional disputes as well as secondary boycotts. must be eliminated. but the proposed. procedure is a verydubious and questionable one to follow. -when based merely on some charge which might be made. where there may be some kind of prejudice existing somewhere.it is something which to my way of thinking is utterly without justification. so. years ago i came to the conclusion. and i have had occasion to change my feeling since. that the adoption of such a provision which seeks to parallel employees with management. a provision which. insofar as employees are concerned. is the same as the provision governing management. governing employers in their relationships to employees. is wholly out of order. i think we have egh in the bill as it is  presented to take care of practically every situation of the type which is so obious and to which we are referring in this instance. all that is necessary is to examine the provision in the bill with reference to the closed shop to see how well prepared we are to meet the situations which have been cited by the senator from minnesota. i dare say that that very provision alone would eliminate a great deal of this difficulty. when we come to the other provisions which i have mentioned. dealing with the secondary boycott -and jurisdictional disputes. i think the field is amply covered. i see point in placing in the bill something which inevitably will serve  alone to discourage legitimate labor organization. but may later. by interpretation and effect. defeat legitimate attempts at labor organization.
i should like to ask the senator if he does  believe that the provision requiring a majority of all the employees in the organization to affirm a desire to belong to the union before there can be a union shop goes a long way toward eliminating the difficulty of which he is speaking. that provision is something new in labor organization. i realize the vigorous objections which are  being made by organized labor to this provision. i understand some of the reasoning behind those .bjections. however. i wilh to point out that provision was ever placed in the law which would hav a more salutary effect upon the whole labor movement than will the provision dealing with the union shop.  will any provision ever be placed in the law which will place the unions in a position of higher respect than will this provision alone. that is why . have great faith in the provision. i do  believe that some of the other provisions are at all necessary.
i apologize to the senior senator from ohio for interrupting his remarks. but right at that point there is something i should like to get into the record. i think all of us. in viewing this matter. should do so from the overall aspect. we can take it from one corner or one angle and look at it that way. this bill presents an overall approach to the solution of the difficulties with which we are  confronted. in that connection. i should like to point out. in line with what the senior senator from ohio has just been saying. that i do  always agree with the national labor relations board. and i am sure the senator from ohio himself will bear me out in that statement. i did  always agree with the state labor relations board in the state of new york. but i desire to point out. in connection with the pending bill. that it provides for a joint congressional committee. and one of the chief functions of that committee. as it was one of the chief functions of the committee in the state of new york. is  only to follow the laws which have been enacted over a period of years. to ascertain how they are working and what corrections need to be made in them and to make recommendations accordingly. but to study the administration of those laws. one of our great drawbacks at the present time is that there is too little kledge. generally. as to how these laws have been administered. i for one feel that one of the great troubles with the whole labor relations question has been the maladministration which occurred in connection with the national labor relations act in the beginning. and which continued for a number of years. i desire to say for the recoad that right  we have a good national labor relations board. and i think the senior senator from ohio will agree with me in that statement.
we may condemn. or criticize. or find fault with some of the procedures and some of the findings of our national labor relations board. we may disagree with its recommendations made before the committee. i disagree with some of them. and i disagreed at times with the board in the state of new york. but we. as a committee. used to sit down with them and work out procedures. and that is what can be done with the national labor relations board. i do  think congress realizes the infinite possibilities contained in this bill. it will be found that governmental administrative bodies are generally pretty reasonable. and i am sure that can be definitely said insofar as our present national labor relations board is concerned. they welcome suggestions. they do  think they have the final answer to the questions we are considering. so. when it comes to the techniques of administration. the procedures to be followed. i believe firmly that the congress of the united states. the chief legislative body in america. has a responsibility in this connection. we are the ones who pass the laws which are finally enacted. we have that particular basic responsibility. and our responsibility carries beyond that point. it carries to the point where we should k definitely at all times whether the legislation we are sponsoring and passing is working effectively. and as we- intend it to work. i apologize again to the senior senator from ohio for interrupting him but i think this matter is so vital that i should mention it at this point.
a few days ago. in my remarks on this particular. proposal. i pointed out. as my chief objection. my fear of the construction that might very easily be placed on the words "interfere with." they could easily be construed to mean that any conversation. and persuasion. any urging on the part of any person. in an effort to persuade aher to join a labor organization. would constitute an unfair labor practice. that was my principal objection to the amendment offered by the senior senator from minnesota. i am  in agreement with at least some of my friends in the senate. and i think if i may at this time offer an amendment eliminating the words "interfere with" and if the amendment can be adopted. i may be able to go along with the amendment proposed by the senior senator from minnesota. i  offer that amendment.
i am referring to litigation which might ensue. and everything in that connection which might serve as a stumbling block to legitimate labor organization. i believe that was the case which the senator from oregon was making.
by the same line of reasoning are we given to understand that if the attitude of the board changes subsequently. the board itself may employ this weapon to harass. to use the word employed by the senator. legitimate attempts on the part of labor to organize.
i want to make an inquiry of the senator from ohio. i think the senator indicated that a provision such as this would be a protection to the small manufacturer in a given industry or to a small shop owner. and so forth. i think i k what he means by that implication but i am wondering whether at the same time that it would operate in that way perhaps it would also act as a protection to those in the same industry. i mean to say that in some instances the bill will act as a handicap to those who are in the same industry by presumably eliminating the possibility of their getting together and working out a wage scale or a wage schedule which is more or less uniform. i can see very plainly how by the application of this provision a way might be opened for the chiseler and the employer who wanted to have a level of production. so far as employment was concerned. lower than that which would be considered a suitable standard level. i am wondering whether such a provision would open up the situation in such a way that the employer who wants to do a decent job and pay a decent wage would be without the protection he otherwise would have.
i am  quarreling with anything the senator from ohio has to say about the situation in the steel industry. but i do  think that is typical of the conditions which may exist in other large areas of socalled industrywide bargaining in other types of industries. what i have in mind is the possibility. which this amendment presents. of destroying in a given industry a certain amount of uniformity which exists in the whole wage schedule or the whole wage standard or structure. thereby creating such conditions in certain areas or sections that the level of the living standard might be vastly reduced. thereby eventually forcing other employers in the city or urban area to reduce the wages they pay. in order to be in line. which presumably would mean wages which would be commensurate with those paid by their competitors.
a situation similar to that in the stove industry. about which the senator from ohio has spoken. exists in certain segments of the garment industry. i happen to have made a study. some years ago too many years agoof a report that insofar as new york city was concerned. the same overall major parent labor organization which then controlled in new york had been engaged in the process of obtaining locals in the districts on the outside. including areas of connecticut and areas of new jersey and several other sections of the country. i found that as a result of that situation. the effect was most beneficial both in the city of new york and in the areas outside. the wage scale has been raised in those outside areas.  to the level that existed in the city of new york. to be sure. but to a level commensurate with the condition existing in that locality. at the same time the wage scale in the city of new york has  had to be lowered. what i am fearful of is that because of the "ncentive. which inevitably exists in this proposal. to pull away from the parent organization. there will be. at the same time. an incentive for the chiseler and the employer who wants to take advantage of cheap labor. if we wish to call it that. to entice one local union after aher to pull away from the parent organization. until the whole setup. which may have been very satisfactory at one moment. may become completely disorganized and the whole union itself disrupted.
one will argue about that in theory. but let us get down to the practical side of the matter. can the senator imagine for one instant a local in a strong international setup. even though the local might find itself in such a position that its condition would be slightly impaired by an agreement which might be reachedcan the senator imagine a local that would tear itself away for the purpose of a local collective bargaining agreement. when it belongs to a sound. good. international union.
the strange thing is that the senator and i see this problem in exactly the same way. but we are very far apart. in this instance. in finding the answer. what i am afraid of is that in what is being attempted here we are encouraging the local setup. the local organization. to break away. what is proposed would destroy responsibility. which is basic in labor organizations. the senator may say. "yes. the responsibility of the local will be broken." presumably they might all be taken out of international or national organizations. or parent organizations. and the responsibility be placed on the local level also to that extent. but where would organized labor itself. where would tradeunionism in this country wind up on that kind of a basis. and where would our ecoy wind up. with industry organized as it is today.
fully agreeing with a portion of*what the senator has said about the situation which sometimes results from the unreasonable demands on the part of certain labor leaders. i wish to say that it has been my observation that  only do unreasonable demands come from that source. but also extremely reasonable demands. without those labor leaders. and without that type of leadership in labori think the senator will readily agree that. by and large. the big. sound. honesttogoodness labor leaders far exceed in number those who are organized labor. and labor as a whole in this country. never could have made the progress it has made it is that very thing about which i am disturbed in connection with the pending amendment. it tends to tear down that kind of a condition.
when the wagner act was before congress for consideration i do  think the question of industrywide bargaining had been before the country to any great extent. we k that the whole question of contracts goes back 60 years. contracts and agreements were made on that basis in the late 1880s. but the thing which has evolved as a result of the wagner act. through the process of collective bargaining itself and the machinery created by the wagner act for that purpose. is the overall broadening of the approach in collective bargaining. this has come about as a very natural result of conditions which existed. and which in the first instance brought about industrywide bargaining in certain great industries such as the glass industry. the pottery industry. and a number of others. so it is a natural consequence of the growth of our ecoy. the problem with which we are confronted in dealing with that condition. as i see it. is the effect on the ecoy where mooly is concerned. if the purpose behind the amendment is to reach mooly. that is one thing. apparently that is  the purpose. because this amendment would  stop it. it is possible to get around the amendment. because it applies only to collective bargaining itself. on the other hand. if the purpose is to discipline parent organizations and destroy their influence and control over local organizations. that is aher thing. i fear that that would completely destroy the entire plan.
i merely wish to point out one thing. and that is that it was  so many years ago. as i recall. that we were trying our best. in large areas in this country. to encourage industrywide bargaining of the type we are discussing here because it was believed that it would produce a standardization of wages and working conditions which might be desirable. and thereby produce an understanding and a feeling of appreciation on the part of employers and employees of their respective obligations. difficulties. and responsibilities. and of everything else that goes to make up labor relations.  very long ago we were encouraging this very thing. that is aher thing that this type of approach may go a long way toward destroying.
. i join wholeheartedly in the very eloquent statement which has just been made by the senator from michigan. he hit the nail on the head in what he said respecting the effectiveness of legislation. so far as legal compulsion is concerned. something with which we are always faced in matters affecting human relationships. and of course what he said is especially true in the field of labor relations. at the moment it so happens we are considering an amendment which. however justifiable in the results it. seeks to attain. yet is of such a type and is in such form that almost inevitably it will fail of its purpose. the pending amendment would appear to be divided into two main proposals. one would limit collective bargaining units "to the same metropolitan district or county." and the other would prevent any labor organization from exercising authority over a subordinate labor organization in the determination of wages. hours. and working conditions. that. in substance. is the amendment before us. addressing myself to the pending amendment. i desire first briefly to review the historical background of industrywide bargaining. the problem of industrywide bargaining has been given so much attention and so many have the idea that the amendment we are  considering deals primarily with this subject. that i think it should be given consideration in the way in which i am  going to present it. although the fact is  generally kn. -industrywide bargaining in the united states was first instituted almost 60 years ago when the workers in the pressed- or blownglassware industry reached an agreement with an employers association in that idustry in 1888. furthermore. major strike has occurred in the industry within the intervening years. .. it is eworthy that simila r conrdi-" tions have prevailed inthe pottery industry since 1922. i point out that the 1946 contract between the national automatic sprinkler and fire control associations and the united association of journeymen plumbers and steamfitters. a. f. of l.. is largely a revision of the original agreement established in 1915. moreover. the 1946 agreement between the anthracitecoal operators and the united mine workers of america. a. f. of l.. is. for the most part. a compilation of resolutions. revisions. rulings. and decisions which. date back to 1903. i might cite other cases of this kind with significant historical backgrounds. -but the ones i have indicated are sufficient to show that industrywide bargaining is  a new development in the united states. the followingnamed industries. with which i show the percentage of all workers who are covered by agreements with associations and groups of employers. is important in the consideration of this subject. the first group of industriesand in this group i would say that from 80 to 100 percent of all the workers engaged are covered by such agreementsincludes mens and womens clothing. coal mining. laundry and cleaning and dyeing. longshoring. maritime. shipbuilding and boatbuilding. in the second group. with between 60 and 79 percent of the employees covered by industrywide agreements. are baking. book and job printing and publishing. canning and preserving of foods. construction. dyeing and finishing of textiles. glass and glassware. malt liquors. pottery and related products. trucking. and warehousing. in the third group. with between 40 and 59 percent of the employees covered by such agreements. are buildingservice and maintenance. leather products. and. newspaper and periodical printing and publishing. the fourth group. in which between 20 and 39 percent of the workers employed in the industry are covered by such agreements. includes alcoholic beverages. hosiery. hotels and restaurants. jewelry and silverware. lumber. -shoes. cut stock and findings. and other forms of trade. . the follbwing are examples of true instances of industrywide bargaining: the first is the flatglass industry. the pittsburgh plate glass co. and the libbyowensford glass co.. with which organizations. most of us are somewhat acquainted. control .the major part of the production in this industry. they negotiate their agreements jointly. with an a. f. of l. union and a cio union. but each company signs a separate identical agreement. the two companies also collaborate in the administration of the agreement to assure uniform patterns of interpretation.
that is correct. i come  to the rubber industry. a wage increase agreement was signed on march 2. 1947. i think most of us recall it. it was very recent. such an agreement was signed by the four largest manufacturers. and the agreement affected a large proportion of the workers in the industry. in this connection i should like to point out to the senate that i am naming all the examples of industrywide bargaining. i merel point out these three. as good examples. % the third is the basic steel industry. .the united steelworkers of america first signed agreements with the united states steel corp. in 1937. and since then. with a few exceptions. practically all the basic steel industry has been brought under agreement. the following are examples of collective bargaining by gebiiraphical -areas. which i think should be considered in this connection in order to get the true picture: the first is the hosiery industry. in the hosiery industry a bargaining relationship has existed between the fullfashioned hosiery manufacturers of. america and the american federation of hosiery workers since 1927. the employers association. originally covering only philadelphia mills.  covers a major part of the thern section of the fullfashioned hosiery industry. the second is the textile industry. there are association agreements between the textile workers union of america and associations- of "silk and. rayon :nills. in a number of stateg. " the third example is the maritime. workers. the waterfront employers association on the pacific coast. for example. embraces employers of longshoremen along the entire west coast. the international longshoremens and warehousemens union negotiates a general cargo agreement with a coastwide association which signs on behalf of the four local associations. the fourth example is the pulp and paper industry. in this connection. i think it is  inappropriate for me to point out that the other day i received a plea from an industry in my own state against this particular amendment. this particular industry happens to be in the pulp and paper business. in the pacific thwest the pacific coast association of pulp and paper manufacturers deals with the two national unions in the field. the fifth example is the fishing industry. the fishing industry. particularly on the pacific coast. wher. it is well organized. is an example of collective bargaining almost exclusively on an association basis. the employers. however. are organized into a number of separate associations. the sixth example is the meat industry. the national association of retail meat dealers. composed of affiliated state and local associations throughout the united states. negotiates with the amalgamated meat cutters and butcher workers of america. their agreement recognizes that local conditions require local treatment. and that it is  practicable or advisable to include in the agreement questions affecting wages. hours. and conditions of employment. the seventh example is the shipbuilding and boatbuilding industry. most of the shipbuilding and boatbuilding industry on the west coast is covered by a master agreement negotiated by the metal trades department of the american federation of labor. . the above background of industry and regional bargaining over long periods of time goes far toward indicating that stability of labor relations has been maintained to a considerable degree by this particular process. yet many persons think that the first portion of the pending amendment is intended to abolish the many satisfactory industrywide or regional plans which have been established and have been in operation for many years. i think that. question was cleared up pretty satisfactorily in the discussion which occurred on the floor of the senate yesterday between the senator from ohio and myself. i believe that everyone should realize that this amendment has hing to do directly with the type of bargaining of which i have been speaking. but there is a strong possibility that the time may come when it could have an effect upon such plans as i have indicated. industrywide bargaining is working well in the case of pottery. rubber. large areas of the textile industry. mens clothing. ladies garments. maritime shipping. and other industries. the consistent development in the direction of industrywide bargaining shows that this has been a logical path of ecoic development. only through industrywide bargaining can substandards be raised. for example. whenever an industry has been plagued by the runaway shop problem. consisting principally of incompetent manufacturers seeking to compete with new york city producers by escaping to lower wage areas under union conditions. the result of such efforts to avoid industrywide bargaining has been to debase labor standards. both where the industries are principally established and where competitors spring up in other areas. industrywide or regional bargaining avoids the necessity of many negotiations conducted with many different employers. it represents substantial savings in time and effort both to industry and to labor organizations in negotiating contracts. it enables groups of small employersand i want to emphasize thisto protect themselves against the large labor unions by keeping the unions on terms of approximate equality through an employer association. and avoids conditions by which unions sometimes pick off one employer after aher. it enables the union to scale down the demands of any particularly militant group or to raise the demands of any particularly apathetic group of employees who threaten to put certain companies at a great advantage or a great disadvantage in their competitive markets. this matter was thoroughly canvassed. as was pointed out yesterday. when the clayton act was passed. and resulted in the legislative declaration that the labor of a human being is  a commodity. this was a recognition of the fact that wages are  a mere item of cost but represent the living standards of the great mass of the people. furthermore. surprising as it may seem. this condition does  necessarily lead to mooly. employers still compete in production efficiency. worker morale. favorable plant locations. and other factors. by withdrawing labor as an element in competition the problems which have existed in coal and textiles. where benevolent employers have been unable to raise wages because of lowwage competition in other areas. are avoided. the situation in the steel industry which has been cited during this debate is  truly typical. it offers suitable example of prevailing conditions. it rises largely from the fact that the industry has traditionally recognized both the price and wage leadership of big steel. thus the union has had alternative except to refuse to settle until a settlement with the united states steel corp. has been reached. as i have previously stated. the net effect of the incorporation of this amendment in senate bill 1126 would be to place outside the protection of the statute all collective bargaining under all circumstances in units larger than a single employer or covering more than a single metropolitan district or county where employers are involved. in passing. however. i should like to point out that here in the bill is the term "metropolitan district" defined. and that in defining it administratively the national labor relations board might well be faced with an impossible task. i have been rather curious. myself. about what might be construed as a metropolitan district. during our discussions in the committee on labor and public welfare there were a number of different ideas expressed as to just what might be meant by this term. personally. i had a feeling that if anything of this type were to be incorporated it ought to provide something which would include trade area. i think trade area far more nearly expresses the idea which many of us have when we talk about metropolitan districts. however. the matter is left as it is. and i can very well see an opportunity in the future. if it is ever incorporated in the statute. for a vast amount of litigation in trying to determine in some section of the country exactly what is intended to be included in the term. looking for a moment to the administrative difficulties which would be encountered let us consider the following-
i think we can assume that the definition in the census report would always be the final definition of a metropolitan district. my problem. as the senator will recall. is the fact that i thought a metropolitan district limitation was altogether too small. i do  think it is truly realistic. presumably. we do  k whether the tradearea approach is realistic. but certainly. to my way of thinkingand i think the senator will agree that this is merely a matter of opinionthe term "trade area" far more nearly approaches what i have in mind than does the idea of a metropolitan district. as a matter of fact. going into this matter and being realistic about it. instead of using the word "county." we might properly use the word "state." the state of new york. for example. has a provision in its labor relations act covering multipleemployer unit bargaining. that came about very definitely because under the state labor relations act of new york state there are many requirements in the state for that type of bargaining and that type of approach. consequently. we found it necessary to provide in the statute a permissive section to allow that type of bargaining. multipleemployer unit bargaining is hing new in this country.
oh.  as was pointed out so well by the senator from ohio yesterday in explanation of this matter. it would still be possible to have agreements. contracts still could be drafted. but the matter of collective bargaining -and the certification of units would be absolutely outlawed. so to a certain extent a definite limitation will be placed in the way of the arrival at such contracts or agreements. there is argument about that.
it would depend upon the area. in the first place. and it would also depend upon the kind of bargaining they were doing. if it is a question of certification. if it is a question in which the national labor relations board is concerned. if it is a question of area or limitation of area. and if the area does  conform to the limitations prescribed under the bill. yes. i think the bill would interfere. but if it is a matter of agreement or contract. that is something else. in that particular instance i do  think the bill would interfere.
because of the fundamental difficulty attached to the principle of permitting a local to withdraw from a parent organization. in any way. shape. or manner. thereby to a large extent destroying the responsibility of the parent organization. i recognize the problem. the senator from ohio and i are in full accord in recognizing the problem. that is  where our difficulty arises. our difference is in the manner of approach. which developed yesterday aftern to some extent. i do  feel that our country is going to wrack and ruin between  and next winter if the pending amendment shall  be adopted. i mean that the adoption of the amendment. even its enactment into law. would  be the cause for any such condition. as i see it. a great deal of trouble can come aboutand i shall develop that later in what i have to sayif the amendment shall be adopted. it will be very harmfulor could be in some instancesto a satisfactory. happy labor relationship -between management and labor. we should  be adopting provisions which are  going to improve that relationship. and that is what i am fearful of in connection with the amendment. i think an answer can be found. and in assuming a position on this question i did  take the negative. i did  merely obstruct and say. " this is wrong. the dickens with it." the answer is in the bill. but is  in the bill in the form of a provision for compulsion by law. it is in the form of a provision for the creation of a joint congressional committee one of the chief functions of which. by mandate of the bill. is to go into this whole industrywide relationship and determine. if possible. what legislation can be proposed .which will meet the problem as we k it to exist and other problems which we .may find to exist. or which the committee may find to exist. and come back to the congress next february 15. or before that time. with a legislative proposal for this purpose. the problem with us today is one the answers to which we simply do  have.
the senator from new york. will have more to say on this subject in his subsequent remarks. but the answer he would give to the question is that it is  primarily a question of local autoy. as the senator from west virginia himself has so well pointed out. the authority to act and the right to act rest basically at present with the local labor union. the labor union can act at the present time. it is the other things that creep into the picture to which i particularly object. and i shall in due course discuss them. looking for a moment to the administrative difficulties which would be encountered by the adoption of the amendment. let us consider that the national labor relations board might have to carve up certain existing. longestablished units. operating under satisfactory collectivebargaining contracts. certain companies  operate as a single business enterprise with direct control of labor relations vested in a single place. in certain cases. employers engaged in the same industry have voluntarily formed trade or employer associations. to which they have delegated the right to bargain collectively for all the members. the practice of successful collective bargaining in these industries might be seriously impaired. unless all the plants involved happened to be within the same "metropolitan district or county." it has been said. moreover. that in the shipping:ndtistry. which i cited. where the men work for one employer one day. and for aher. the next. and where employers and employees have identical interest and problems. and have bargained on a broad basis historically. abandonment of the multiemployer collective.bargaining idea or policy might prove.. disastrous. .. .. . .. ..... the provision in question--would be likely to increase substantially the number of. cases coming before the board. the processing of such cases would be at times extremely difficult. if  impossible.
if there were question of certification. yes. but. of course. under those conditions. the employer himself. or the group of employers. could refuse to acquiesce. employers. in order to be certain they were bargaining within the new law. would be likely to request board certification before bargaining or continuing to bargain with any union. that is. in any case in which doubt existed. only by a board certificate of recent issue could an employer be sure that the union had been expanded beyond the employets of the particular employer or the metropolitan district or county. the board might thus be faced with a hundred. perhaps thousands. of representation cases. whenever contracts were to expire. in each such case. as well as in cases arising under the refusal to bargain. under section 8 (a) (5) of the national labor relations act. the board would have to determine whether the -union also represented employees of other employers. and. if so. whether they were all located within the same metropolitan district or county. the board would also have to decide in each such case what the geographical limits of the metropolitan district were.
i fully agree that that at least is a definition. i think it might become the subject of much litigation. if it were ever incorporated within the amendment. but we would at least k in some degree where we were. obviously. the necessity for making determinations of the kind i have mentioned interfere with the processing of all board cases. i may remark in that connection that i do  think that the new definition we have listened to would completely eliminate troublesome questions. such as some of those i have already indicated. at this point i should like to quote from a statement in the new york times magazine section of january 12. 1947. by dr. sumner h. schlichter. lamont university professor at harvard university. entitled "to end strike in essential industries": the proposal to prohibit industrywide bargaining would obviously  reach the problem presented by electric light and power companies. gas companies. and telephone companies. in these cases there is usually only one company in the market. even in other industries the prevention of industrywide bargaining would  prevent industrywide shutdowns. the united steelworkers have industrywide contracts. and yet the union shut down the steel industry last winter by the simple process of terminating all of its contracts simultaneously. the prohibition of industrywide bargaining could impose a grievous burden on employers because it would help unions pursue the policy of picking them off one by one. employees who sought to protect themselves against this tactic by organizing and bargaining as a unit (as they have in many instances) would be halted by the prohibition of industrywide bargaining. many large employers. it is true. are strongly opposed to industrywide bargaining. but for many small employers bargaining as a group is their only hope of gaining some rough equality with large and powerful unions. i have already pointed that out. the proposals that unions be limited in the proportion of men or plants in an industry which they may organize have  been carefully worked out. occasionally one meets the suggestion that unions be limited to a single company. this would mean over 150.000 unions in manufacturing alone. a less extreme proposal is that any union be prohibited from controlling more than a given fraction (say onefourth or onethird) of the employees in an industry or an occupation. breaking up unions into several in each industry would  prevent the public from being completely deprived of service in such industries as electric light and power. gas. or telephone. where one company ordinarily serves an entire city or region. even in railroading. breaking up the unions would fail to protect many thousands of communities from being completely deprived of railroad service because many towns have only one railroad. in other industries. three or four unions would be a headache. the unions would be either in competition or in collusion. competition would make them tough customers for employers. because each union would be afraid that its rivals would accuse it of being "reasonable" or "soft." hence competition between unions for prestige and influence would produce bad industrial relations and would tefid to increase strikes. competition in the course of time would probably lead to collusion between the several unions. if that occurred the purpose of the policy of breaking up the unions would be defeated. collective bargaining to a large extent has grown up over the years to meet the needs  only of the employer and unions negotiating the agreement. but also the characteristic problems of the industry involved. industrywide bargaining in some industries has been both desirable and helpful. in a few industries it has retarded negotiations and proved inappropriate. some of those cases have been brought up during this debate. in many industries both employers and unions have considered it to their common advantage to negotiate contracts which cover only local areas or single plants. in other industries the bargaining unit and the terms and conditions of employment have been handled on a larger area basis. the process of collective bargaining by its very nature should be as free as possible. if it is to be successful. and the employer and the union should be given sufficient latitude in which to reach a mutually satisfactory agreement. it seems to be generally recognized that collective bargaining should never be placed in a legislative straitjacket. our ecoy is dynamic in character. as we all k. and our means of transportation. communication. marketing. and production are constantly changing. to deprive employers and employees of the opportunity to adapt their bargaining procedures to these changes in our ecoic life would promote and  reduce friction and dispute. the philosophy that strikes can be prevented by localing negotiations is without foundation in fact. as i have already indicated. employers have frequently been handicapped by the technique used by some unions of playing one employer off against aher. thus obtaining particular advantages or better terms in one plant than in aher. regardless of the circumstances of the individual company or industry. bargaining on a larger area basis tends to prevent these frictions and pressures on employers and to stabilize industrial conditions. in this connection it should be observed that standardization of wages and working conditions reduces these factors as cost items in the field of competition. this condition. however. does  mean absolute uniformity in wages and working conditions. there are at the present time wage differentials for particular areas. even though bargaining may be on a national base. i spoke about that yesterday in connection with one of the questions which was raised during the discussion over the agreements which have been reached through the international lady garment workers union. and i think the amalgamated in some instances. where they have plants in connecticut and in new jersey as well as in the city of new york. it does  pull the wage level in the outlying areas up to the new york city level. where it has to be reasonably high because of the cost of living there.  does it reach a condition where it would perhaps pull the new york city wage level down to the level in the outlying areas. where the cost of living is  so high. what it does is to protect the new york city level and at the same time assure the outlying communities of a reasonably high standard of living for all those employed in the particular industry. moreover. as i have already pointed out. wages and labor costs are  identical. for example. two employers in the same line of business may pay the same wage rates. but there may be wide differences in their labor costs due to differing types of machinery. methods of production. labor relations. and other factors.  a recent study by lester and robie. of princeton university. indicates that relative stability was obtained in the several industries they studied. which include pressed and blown glassware. pottery. stone.- fullfashioned hosiery. silk and rayon dyeing and finishing. flat glass. and the west coast pulp and paper industry. inasmuch as the general conclusions reached by the princeton study are of importance in the consideration of this subject. i cite them. they are as follows: 1. under national or regional bargaining. wage decisions are likely to be more sensible and farsighted. taking into consideration the ecoic interests as a whole. than is the case where.the wage pattern for the industry is established by local bargaining. with the union playing one firm against the other. 2. generally speaking. wage and earning levels do  appear to have risen more rapidly under national and regional bargaining than for manufacturing as a whole. levels of wages in the industries studied are  high in comparison with similar occupations in other industries. 3. wage patterns under national and regional collective bargaining apparently have  served to place any additional restraint. on techogical improvement and new investment. 4. moolistic or collusive practices with regard towages and ecoic changes have  characterized any of the industries studied. *to the contrary. elimination of wage cutting has tended to stress efficiency of management as the most important factor in competition. 5. local interests and the interests of smaller firms have generally been well represented in wage negotiations under national or regional bargaining in the industries studied. 6. judging from the experience in these industries. friction and labor strife was reduced through national or regional bargaining. concentration of change in wage rates in one industrywide determination has avoided the labor unrest and series of strikes that often accompany competition between the firms in the timing of wage changes. or competition between rival unions in exacting concessions from employers. turning to the second part of the proposed amendment. which its proponents state is aimed at providing more autoy for local unions. i point out that this provision would tend further to resist industrywide bargaining. although some of its proponents appear to insist that this is  its real purpose. contrary to the position of some advocates of this portion of the amendment. it could actually prevent industrywide
. after listening to the debate on the amendment  under consideration. i have become more and more convinced that it can have little or beneficial effect on industrywide bargaining. aimed ostensibly. we are told to provide local autoy for tradeunionism. actually in operation. if effective. it could tear tradeunionism apart. what we should be seeking  are means to curb moolistic tendencies which may exist as a result of industrywide bargaining. this the pending amendment would  do. the bill itself. however. in its present form and without further amendment offers adequate safeguardsi am talking  about the bill itselffor the protection of the individual worker and insures the exercise of appropriate responsibility where labor organizations are concerned. by attempting more in the present instance we can accomplish little that is good. and we may do much that is harmful. in these circumstances it would appear most inadvisable at this time to agree to the pending amendment. the terms of which at best are devious and dubious. with overwhelming reasons for its rejection. the amendment should be defeated.
the senator from new york appreciates the courtesy shown him by the senator from florida.  hoover. and i think the senate would do well to keep that in mind. i deplore a condition which in any way. shape. or manner will revive the flagrant abuses which brought about the enactment of the rislaguardia act. i. think the pending amendment opens the door. it is the entering wedge. second. in his very effective statement outlining the contents of the bill. af the beginning of its consideration by the senate. the chairman of the committee. the senator from ohio. indicated that the unfairlaborpractice procedure provided by the bill would be sufficient without the injunctive procedure proposed by the senator from minnesota. in the first place. a priority is given this particular type of case. if i k anything about the workings of the national labor relations board. i am absolutely convinced the board will have to set up additional machinery to take care of cases of this particular kind. i am furtherconvinced that the board will do so. and that the priority referred to will insure almost immediate consideration of cases of the kind prescribed.
in line with the thought of the senator from minnesota. which is so well expressed. i should like to raise the question whether our real purpose in what we are doing is  to pave the way for the day when labor law and labor board will be necessary. and all the difficulties will be settled by the voluntary approach. by which. by the way. more than 90 percent of them are handled at present.
. that is the way we go forward in this country.. if we always had the way clear. if we always knew where we were going. we would  be living in this world. we have to take things as we find them. this type of legislation is the only type of legislation with which to approach and. finally. to solve the problems of labor relations which face us.
. the attitude of the critics of the legislation. causes me to wonder: is there going to be a definite attempt to sabotage this legislation if it is enacted. i come to the point which i think is one of the three most important in connection with the bill. namely. will the national labor relations board. and the administration under that board. seek to sabotage the legislation. i do  believe so. i have faith in the chairman of that board. he may  agree with the bill. he may  like it. but he is the type of man who will do his utmost to see that its provisions are carried out faithfully. there may be sabotage in other places. that is what has to be watched. it must be definitely understoodand this is the second most important thing in connection with this legislationthat we should have an appropriation sufficient to permit the board properly to administer the law. let one deceive himself about that. failure to appropriate a sufficient amount of money can in itself bring about the sabotage of this act. i trust that the congress of the united states. in its wisdom. will see that sufficient funds are provided for this purpose. third. and finally. and most important of all. is the question of the joint congressional committee whichhas been referred to in the discussion today. too little attention has been paid to the importance of that joint committee. however. i think its significance is  beginning to be realized. the joint committee itself. through its own operations and activities. can pave the way for the removal of any undesirable situation which may develop as a result of this legislation. that may sound like a rather extreme statement. i have had experience in this field. with this type of committee activity and this type of approach. i am  afraid of this bill. with the type of joint congressional committee which i assume will be established under itseven members from the senate and seven members from the house. this joint committee will have a grave responsibility. presumably. its members will be named at the time the law goes into effect. which i assume will be 60 days after the enactment of the bill. the joint congressional committee has two areas of responsibility in. the very first instance. first. it must see that there is sabotage in the administration of the law. that is one task which. above all others. it must assumeto see that the administration is as we intend it to be. that there is fairness and justice under the law and that the new law is interpreted as it is our intention that it should be interpreted. the second main function of the joint committee this year will be the job of ascertaining those parts of the bill which may  be perfect. which may  work satisfactorily. there may be a few provisions which will  work as intended. but that should  be permitted to destroy the whole piece of legislation. the task of the committee will be to ascertain those unsatisfactory parts. to prepare appropriate amendments. and to see that these amendments are offered and properly supported at the next session of the congress. as i stated in my remarks 2 weeks ago. this bill is  an end product. this is  final legislation on this subject. that was the mistake which had been made in connection with the national labor relations act. when it was first passed. and ever since. this type of legislation is subject to constant change and correction. if it were perfect today. 5 years from today many imperfections would very likely have shown up. in view of intervening circumstances. there can be end product. final legislation. in this field. with that understanding. the joint .congressional committee can go forward. looking for corrections which must be made. and helping uaanagement and labor to get together and to work together. these things they can do. and i k it. the joint committee should act in part to help formulate administrative policy and procedure as well as to perform its functions as a strictly legislative agency at the inception of the new law. these things the committee can do. and. i k it. if the committee will go forward with the idea of helping to get labor and management together. the idea of correcting the defects in the legislation. and. finally. the idea of having a law which is absolutely fair and as nearly perfect as possible then i predict that the bill passed todayas i believe it will bewill prove to be of great benefit to the country.
. i am doing  what i have failed to do thus far. and i believe one of the subcommittees of the committee on labor and public welfare is still standing in suspense because i have forgotten to do this. the subcommittee on health of the committee on labor and public welfare. which is  in the process of holding a hearing on senate bill 545. asks the consent of the senate to continue the hearing during the rest of today. or so much thereof as may be necessary for that purpose.
i am very sorry that the senator has so construed my remarks. what i am referring to in my statement is the position of a state or any small group of states. in connection with a project affecting the whole united states. the senator spoke about the amalgamated clothing workers of new york. i spoke about the state federation of labor of new york. let me point out that those are state of new york organizations. to be sure. the amalgamated clothing workers extends beyond the limits of new york. but most of the members of the organization are in new york. i am trying to keep local interests out of the discussion. that is what i was referring to. and  that the rank and file of citizens should  be permitted the right of petition. of course. they should under all circumstances.
. from the committee on labor and public welfare. i ask unanimous consent to submit a report ( 951) to accompany the bill to prohibit discrimination in employment because of race. religion. color. national origin. or ancestry. heretofore reported by that committee. ate 1957
. as one who is deeply interested in helping to obtain peaceful and happy industrial and labor relations for the nation. and particularly for new york state. i am disturbed by the controversy which continues to exist -between the remington rand co. and the united electrical. radio. and machine workers of america. it seems to me that misunderstanding and stubbornness have led to the present unfortunate impasse. on the one hand. the company has seen fit to refuse to bargain collectively with the union. relying on its interpretation of the law. which it feels proscribes its obligation to bargain with the representative of its employees. on the other hand. it should be pointed out that the union has  complied with the filing requirements of the labormanagement relations act. which is a condition precedent to the utilization of the boards process. but  a necessary prerequisite for the continuation of collective bargaining. i would point out in this connection that. as stated by mr. robert denham. the general counsel of the national labor relations board. in a letter to mr. lee pressman. then the general counsel of the ciothe act does  prevent remington rand from entering into any contract they may desire to with the ue. but if they incorporate a union security provision they *111 do so at their peril. and. of course. the closedshop contract is specifically forbidden by the law. in the interests of sound and constructive industrial and labor relations and industrial peace in new york state. i am hopeful and sincerely trust that the remington rand co. and the united electrical. radio. and machine workers of america will enter into constructive bargaining relations. as encouraged and permitted by the law.
. the purpose of this amendment is obvious. it is to provide that e of the socalled welltodo states shall receive less than $5 per child for children between the ages of 5 and 17. my reason for offering the amendment was fairly well explained the other aftern when i spoke in general about the need for a minimum dollar provision in the bill. on checking the effect of the bill as it  stands. i find that. so far as the more welltodo states are concerned. the minimum is substantially below the $5 figure which ostensibly has been set in the bill. as will be ed. this amendment affects the language in paragraph (d) of section 4. in line 21 on page 16 of the bill. as the language  stands. it provides that in order to obtain.the full amount of federal aid which would be allotted under the formula provided in the bill. at least 2.5 percent of a states income must be devoted to public educational purposes in the state. through the medium of local and state taxes. it so happened that in a substantial majority of the states this is  the case. i readily agree that such an objective is desirable as an ultimate objective. at the same time. i feel equally positive that there should be a definite minimum of which every state should be sure at all times. that is why i am offering this amendment. it simply provides that. regardless of any other provision in the paragraph. every state shall receive a minimum of at least $5 per child within the age limits previously mentioned. to indicate what i mean in connection with the more. welltodo states. i point out that by the latest figures. maryland is raising only 1.2 percent of its tax income for public educational purposes. delaware and rhode island. 1.4 percent. connecticut and nevada. 1.5 percent. california. illis. and ohio. 1.6 percent. massachusetts and new york. 1.7 percent. michigan. new hampshire. pennsylvania. and washington. 1.8 percent. new jersey and oregon. 1.9 percent. and indiana. 2. percent. i point out in connection with indiana that of the 17 states which can possibly get anything back in the way of a balance of aid in their favor out of the proposal  before us. indiana would receive the highest allowance. which would be $4 instead of $5 per pupil. maryland would receive slightly more than $2 per pupil. this seems to me to be altogether wrong. a minimum of $5 is  out of order. as i stated the other day. the more welltodo states are entitled to a reasonable return. they are entitled to be assured that they will have a minimum return. and that is why i am offering the amendment which is  before the senate.
i merely want to point out that acceptance of the report will have a rather devastating effect on the state of new york in the two services involved. it would mean that beginning with may 15. or the day after. 900 employees would have to be dropped in the state of new york. this would come at a time of big rush in the recruitment services. and it would  only be demoralizing there but would be almost paralyzing. . i hope that the report will  be adopted.
. in what i have to say i want it distinctly understood that i intend in way to be critical of the able senator from california or of his committee. i believe that. faced with the circumstances with which they were faced. they have done a very good job. i k very well that the distinguished senator from california did his best to retain such items as the appropriation for the womens bureau. and to keep intact appropriations for the unemployment compensation and the uses functions of the government. leaving them where they were placed by the senate. i am well aware of that. i merely wish to point out that i feel there is ample justification for the funds which were requested for the womens bureau. and which were agreed upon by the senate committee and by the senate itself. i should like to emphasize what has already been said in connection with the merging. as it were. of the uses and the unemployment compensation services of the government. it seems to me that in dealing with such subjects. before there is any radical change in policy. we should await the report of the commission  studying the whole governmental organization. i refer to the hoover commission. at the same time. while i realize that there is still money left with which the womens bureau can function. i also realize that if it is to accomplish many of the purposes for which it was originally intendedand still is carrying out. i believeit is necessary that most of the branch offices be left in operation. i gather from what the able senator has said that most of them are to be closed as a result of this reduction.
i think that is a most unfortunate situation. when it comes to the question of the merging of the uses and the unemployment compensation functions of the government. i fully agree with what has already been said by senators who have preceded me in discussing this subject. i myself opposed reorganization plan  1 primarily because i felt that we should await the report of the hoover commission. i feel that that same reason applies equally in this instance. i agree with what has been said about attaching riders of this nature which would place substantive matter in appropriation bills. such procedure is entirely out of order. i regret very much. . that there is hing which can really be done about these matters at this particular time. apparently the hour is too late for their reconsideration by the conferees. as the distinguished senator has indicated. were such reconsideration to be had. the bills themselves might be in jeopardy. and that situation certainly would  make such reconsideration worth while. again i wish to say that while i do  agree with certain items in these two bills. as i have indicated. at the same time i do  want to level criticism at the able senator from california. however. i feel that aher year when these questions are again before us. greater consideration should be given them.
. i have desire to object to passage of h. r. 6818. earlier in the session. i introduced legislation to amend the social security act to provide more adequately for the blind persons of our nation. i am thoroughly sympathetic with the purpose of this bill. and at this late day i have wish to jeopardize prompt action upon it. it is my sincere regret. however. that the bill is so limited in scope. the present law deters blind people from becoming selfsupporting because it requires that the amount of income earned apart from the socialsecurity benefits be deducted from the aid received. h. r. 6818 improves this unfortunate provision. but h. r. 6818 must  be considered an adequate solution to the problem of assuring the blind that they may engage in satisfying and appropriate work without limiting their income by doing so. of the 65.000 persons under the federal program. it is estimated that only 300 to 400 will gain from the provisions of this bill which permits a blind person to earn $40 per month without reducing his benefits from the socialsecurity program. when i introduced s. 2590. i felt that a substantial revision in the method of determining socialsecurity payments to the blind should be made. although i am in favor of h. r. 6818. i still feel that the law should be further liberalized either by the formulas in my bill or by the method which study will show to be most workable. fair. and liberal. this measure is a short step in the right direction. and i would  imperil the chance of passing it by seeking to amend it when time is so short and human hours are at a premium. i do want to make it very clear for the record. etheless. that at the earliest opportunity i intend to press for further liberalization in the law so that blind persons may have every encouragement to be selfsupporting.
let me point out to the senator that the time i referred to. in saying that the hearings should have begun on the 14th. was  during the inaugural period. there was ample opportunity on the 14th and 15th. at least. and perhaps on the 17th and 18th. i wish to point out to the senator from arizona that we already have an excellent precedent for saturday hearings because of what is going on before the committee on labor and public welfare. to my mind. the delay which occurred in this case was inexcusable. and it may eventually prove to have been disastrous.
. i present for appropriate reference and ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the report and recommendations of the new york state bar association committee on labor law and social security legislation dated february 26. 1949. which deals with the associations legislative recommendations with respect to the labormanagement relations act of 1947. while i may  agree with all the conclusions contained in this report. i believe it to be of sufficient merit to take this means to call it to the attention of the senate and have it referred for the consideration of the appropriate committee.
if the senator will kindly look at the table to which the s~nator from illis is referring. he will e that the percentage of income paid per capitathat is. the percentage of current expenditures to average income paymentsin the state of iowa is 2.71. in the state of minnesota. 2.57. in the state of montana. 2.84which. in those instances. is substantially higher than the corresponding percentage figures for a number of the states which presumably are going to receive above and beyond the $5 provided as a minimum under the pending bill. although  one of these three particular states is to receive more than the $5 minimum. so it seems to me that the variation to which i have referred is at least one indication of the inequitable basis on which the formula of the bill seems to have been established. i wish to say here and  that my name is on this bill. in fact. as i recall. the able senator from utah invited me to become associated with this proposed legislation because of my interest in this matter last year and because of my support of the proposed legislation on this subject last year. however. when i received that invitation from the able senator from utah i pointed out that i had  been satisfied with the formulai think the able senator from utah will remember thatand i said i wished to reserve the right. if i could find something more to my satisfaction. to support it. in lieu of the formula provided in the bill. the particular percentages to which i have referred and the remarks made by the able senator from massachusetts in referring to texas and oklahoma. particularly texas. point to one of the things about the formula with which i am  satisfied. i do  think the real formula has yet been found. . do  misunderstand me. i am in way opposed to federal aid for education. but i am pointing out that i do  think the formula contained in the bill is the actual formula which should be adopted. and i am turning more and more to the idea that a flat per capita basis for distribution. while this matter is being worked out. may be a sounder approach than the one  proposed in the bill.
i recognize the point which the able senator from ohio has just made with respect to there being formal or final concept of net income. and yet there is a general one which is accepted. it has always seemed to me that net income represents far more clearly the income of the individual. apparently the senator is  including corporations. so far as being unfair is concerned. i see difficulty there. because net income in one part of the country would be. presumably. on the same basis as net income in aher part of the country.
. and other related matters which might come before itthe congress would  be surprised. would  be taken off guard by a situation of this nature. ample opportunity would have been afforded to k the facts. to k the background. to become accustomed. acclimated. if you please. to the situation which might confront the congress. so i have apprehension regarding a situation of this nature. as i see it. with this procedure operating as it should. the congress definitely would be in a most desirable position to enact legislation of a temporary nature applying only to the immediate dispute in question. then. in. the fourth placeand this is something wh:ch must  be forgotten. because it is so vital in all that we are contemplatingthe free play of mediation. conciliation. conference. and persuasion would be given the greatest possible latitude with the least possible restriction. finally. in the fifth place. the opportunity for reaching a peaceful settlement of the labormanagement dispute should be at a maximum and interference with such settlement should be at a minimum. and there should be a far greater chance that a settlement thus reached would be durable. as devices for helping to achieve industrial peace and to bring about a satisfactory agreement under conditions such as those we are  considering. either seizure or the injunction is. at best. of most dubious value. where the injunction by indirection would seem to reflect against labor. seizure by the same line of reasoning would appear to be an indictment of management and ownership. furthermore. seizure opens up avenues of encroachment by government into private enterprise. which are  pleasant to contemplate. the proposal i make through my amendment would prevent undue interference by government. either in the activities of labor organizations and workers. through the injunction. or in the operation of industry. through seizure. it should be productive of a better feeling between management and labor than can be realized by any possible device which would force labor to work against its will. or force industry to operate by government edict and under government direction. most of all. as a means to prevent a work stoppage. the plan i propose. as i have already emphasized. should prove fully as effective as seizure. or the injunction. or both.
the junior senator from new york would like to point out to the very able senator from missouri that such a situation would  under any conditions fall within the purview of the statute to which we are  directing our attention. that would come directly under the railway labor act.
the senator from new york does  wish to delay the activities or operations of the senate. but the senator from new york would like to point out that we have been 3 weeks considering the labor question. and have covered only one aspect. one title. of the bill. the residue and remainder of the bill is substantially larger in its extent than that which has already been covered. and it seems to me there is a good deal of controversial material and substance in that part of the bill which has  been covered. which the senator from new york feels also should be given some consideration.
the senator from new york felt that there was a point which the senate should consider. the new labor statute on which the senate is working is  going to be perfect. any more than the tafthartley law was perfect in some respects. if any senator is under the delusion we are going to enact a perfect statute at this time. he had better think that over twice. i recognize it is going to contain provisions with which i do  agree. i do  like what happened this aftern. but that does  make me turn against the entire effort to make changes in a statute which demonstrably has  proved to be perfect. in the effort to make these changes i should like to do what i can to make some constructive contribution.
the senator from new york has an important question. a question has arisen as to whether the secondary boycott provisions of the tafthartley act or of the substitute which is before us. and which has been offered by the distinguished senator from ohio. were intended to apply to ecoic pressures exerted by a labor union against union employers in the ladies garment industry who operate under a jobbercontractor system of production. let me put a typical case. a jobber is engaged in the manufacture of dresses. he buys piece goods. he employs designers to design the garments and perhaps cutters to cut the goods. but the dresses are  sewn and finished in his own shop. instead the jobber sends out the cut goods or sometimes the uncut goods. to contractors whose workers sew and complete the dresses according to the jobbers specifications. then the contractor sends the finished dresses back to the jobber who sells them to the trade. this is a typicalexample of jobbercontractor production. governmental investigations have established. and the collective agreements in the industry have long recognized. that under this system the jobber is in ecoic reality the virtual employer of the workers in the contractors shops. that he must be responsible for their wages and labor standards. and indeed that the contractor is hing more than the jobbers outside agent to obtain his required production. of the 300.000 workers employed in the ladies garment industry in the new york area alone. more than 80 percent of them are employed in contractors shops. . let us suppose the jobber is a union jobber or that he employs union contractors. suppose. too. that the international ladies garment workers union. the union which functions in this industry. attempts to organize the jobbers workers or the contractors workers or both groups of workers simultaneously. in this organizational drive the union may attempt to persuade the jobbers workers  to design or to cut goods to be manufactured in the shops of the union contractors. or the union may try to persuade the contractors workers  to manufacture dresses for a union jobber. it has been suggested that this might fall within the ban of the literal language of section 8 (b) (4) and section 303 of the tafthartley act or of section 8 (b) (4) and sections 16 and 17 of the taft substitute. i am sure this was never the intention of the sponsors of the act or of the congress. the jobber and his contractors are obviously engaged in a unified and integrated production effort. and they do  stand as neutrals with respect to one aher in any labor dispute against the other. rather. they are allies because they are engaged in a common enterprise. it seems plain to me that they are  to be deemed separate employers. but. rather. a single unified employer of all workers engaged in every phase of the manufacture of the garments. matter on whose premises the workers are located. ecoic pressure exerted against either jobber or contractor can be construed as secondary action against either. but must be deemed primary against both. the secondary boycott provisions of the act and of the taft substitute therefore have  the slightest application. does the senator from ohio agree that it was never the intention of congress to have the secondary boycott provisions of the act apply to this situation.
i think probably the federal security agency. in its attitude of opposition to experience rating. has gone as far as it can go. but i should like to bring out this point: we do  k what the position of the department of labor might be. we have idea. but we do k that the department of labors chief interest rests with the worker. as it should. we k that any viewpoint which might be expressed by the department of labor presumably would be in favor of the worker. as it should. that being the situation. i doubt that it could be hoped that the attitude of the department of labor would be any more favorable toward experience rating than that of the federal security agency. as a matter of fact. i think the employers attitude in this connection with regard to the federal security agency is founded on the idea that. as nearly as may be possible. the federal security agency itself is a neutral body. it may be prejudiced in this way or that way with regard to the work it is doing. but it is  tied in to any parent group which definitely has a prejudice under the law. that is why. as i see it. presumably a.great number of employers are fearful about this possible change.
 i do  think that could very well be derived from the statement i have made in my presentation. i have thought considerably about that particular point. i think the unwillingness on the part of the secretary of labori do  like to bring personalities into these matters. but in this particular instance i think i mustto indicate his attitude with respect to experience rating. at the time of the hearing. shows that presumably he is  too favorably inclined. i say that advisedly. after all. he was  appointed secretary of labor yesterday. he has been there quite a number of months . he ks something about labor statutes and labor law. from that experience he has at least some definite kledge withregard to unemployment insurance and experience rating. if he did  derive it from that experience. he certainly should have derived it from his experience as gover of the great commonwealth of .massachusetts. it would really be impossible for any chief executive of any state of the union within the past 10 or 12 years. at least.  to k what unemployment insurance is and what experience rating is. especially when. as i indicated. all states have experience rating at this time. consequently. i could only construe his reluctance in that instance as indicating or presumably showing on his part a basic opposition to the idea of experience rating.
in reply to the statement of the senator from- louisiana . i think the senator is familiar with the provision in section 1602 of the internal revenue code. subsection 1. which reads as follows: reduced rate of contributions to a pooled fund or to a partially pooled account. is permitted to a person (or group of persons) having individuals in his (or their) employ except on the basis of his (or their) experience with respect to the unemployment or other factors bearing a direct relation to unemployment risk during  less than the three consecutive years immediately preceding the computation date. in that connection. i should like to ask the able senator from minnesota if he does  believe. in the light of that provision in the law which quite obviously leaves full discretion with the administering agency in regard to the interpretation of the act itself and the formulation of plans under the act. that it would be possible for the administering agency to create a formula whereby experience rating as such would virtually cease to exist. insofar as any state of the union is concerned. which might be operating under it.
so long as we have built up the idea of scurvy to a glorified position. the senator from new york would very much like to ask the senator from minnesota if he does  remember that at time during the hearings did anyone in high authority. either the secretary of labor or anyone else who came before the committee. insist or promise. or even hazard a guess that this plan would insure ecoy or reduce cost. the best we could get out of them was that they thought we might get more efficiency. here did we find that there was going to be any reduction in actual cost of operation.
that is absolutely correct. there can be argument about it. the fact still remains that. rightly or wrongly. a large portion of the smallbusiness men of the countryi am  talking about the big fellows. i am talking about the little fellowsare definitely worried because they do  k what the attitude of the department of labor may be regarding the matter. they feel reasonably certain as to what may happen. so far as the present agency. the federal security agency. is concerned. perhaps their idea is  justified in either instance. but that is the way they feel.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the body of the record at this point as a part of my remarks a very useful document which has been drawn up after a considerable amount of work. it is a comparison of the principal provisions in (a) the present fair labor standards act. that is. the wage and hour law. (b) the new lesinski bill. (c) the new lucas bill. and (d) senate bill 653 as reported by the committee. which is  before the senate.
i do  wish to prolong the debate. but the point the senator from arkansas is making was raised earlier today by the distinguished senator from louisiana. namely. that the several states which have imposed minimum wages have minimum wages which in most instances are substantially less than the 75cent minimum wage provided by the pending bill. i should like to point out. inasmuch as i had something to do with the establishment of the minimumwage level which  obtains. in the state of new york. that the principal reasonin fact. almost the sole reasonwhy the minimum wage in new york is  higher than it isand i assume the same is true of the other states which.have minimumwage lawsis that it was realized that it might be found to be utterly impractical to provide by state law for a minimumwage level so far out of line with the federal minimumwage level. that is why the new york minimum wage is at the point where it has been fixed.
. in reply. i should like to point out that although the wage level or wage mean in the state of new york is presumably higher than that in the state of arkansasand the senator from arkansas already has given figures indicating thatnevertheless. the fact remains that in some areas in the state of new york. there is a comparatively low wage level. i should like to point out that the state of new york is made up of almost all phases. all types. all segments of the total ecey. in some sections of our state we have very high wages. unfortunately. in other sections of our state we have much lower wages. my point is that. regardless of the level of wages in arkansas or regardless of the variation of wages in the state of new york. the fact still remains. presumably. that had the federal minimum wage level been higher than the 40cent level presently existing. the minimum wage in the state of new york would be substantially higher than it is today.
they had equal salaries. the understanding definitely was. and i am sure the able senator from ohio will bear me out. that the counsel actually was a part of the setup of the national labor relations board. although the board itself was supposed to be superior.
ial proclamation or concurrent resolution of the congress. the joint resolution (s. j. res. 68) to provide burial and hospitalization benefits to certain persons who served in the armed forces on and after june 27. 1950. introduced by mr. ives. was read twice by its title and referred to the committee on labor and public welfare.
. i merely wish to point out that i have had several conversations with mr. eric johnston on this question. apparentlyand this is something i had  myself realizedthere are quite a number of businesses whose prices were held down in the fall. their prices did  rise materially during the fall and early winter. prior to the socalled price freeze on january 25. if rollback should occur. the prices which have been in force in those businesses would be left as they were. presumably. unless the administration permitted them to rise in line with other prices which had previously been raised. if that is  permitted. those particular businesses. both from the standpoint of competition and from the standpoint of their relationship with others in industry generally. will find themselves at a great disadvantage. i am very sure that the administration is  going out of its way to try to raise prices unduly at this particular time. or at any other time. in all fairness to the particular businesses which would be adversely affected. as i have indicated. mr. johnston stated that the average increase in manufacturers prices would probably have to be somewhere between 5 and 6 percent. which in turn would necessitate aher round of wage increases. i am dealing with that subject in remarks i shall make later. but i wish to bring out the point in question at this time.
 did  take early advantage of the authority thus bestowed upon him by the congress. more than 3 months elapsed before he establishedthe ecoic stabilization agency. during this -period many pricesespecially food pricesskyrocketed. belatedly. the administration called upon the public voluntarily to keep prices down and urged the workers to be reasonable in demands for wage increases.
the senator from new york would like to ask the junior senator from arizona. the distinguished majority leader. a question. in all sincerity. the senator from new york is  criticizing delay in the procedure of the senate. the delay in getting things done this year. and the senator from new york realizes the causes of that delay. the various and sundry investigations which have hold up committees so that they could  function as mally as they would otherwise. the senator from new york feels that there has been provocation for the delay. and he can well understand how the session this year will have to continue into the fall. perhaps into the late fall. the smator from new york also feels that the members of the senateand. for that matter. members of the house. too. i assumeare under a great strain as the result of this continuous session. which is proceeding without letup. and it has occurred to the senator from new york that. as a favor to members of the senateof course the members of the house can follow whatever procedure they desire as a favor to the members of the senate who like a little letup  and then from the awful grind in the heat of the city of washington. it may be well to have fridays and jondays considered as days upon which there will be votes of any kind. so that our voting would be confined to tuesdays. wednesdays. and thursdays. i am talking  for the period between  and labor day. inclusive. and  thereafter.
. i submit for appropriate reference an amendment which i expect to propose to the bill to provide revenue. and for other purposes. the amendment provides for a grant of certain tax exemptions for income contributed to approved retirement plans by members of business. professional. agricultural. or labor associations. or similar organizations. and for other purposes. i have prepared a statement relating to the amendment. which i ask unanimous consent to have incorporated in the body of the record. at this point in my remarks. i wish to point out. however. that i am submitting the amendment in order that it may be given appropriate committee consideration.
. i. too. join in the words of tribute being paid to mr. carlson. one of the most faithful public servants ever in the employ of the senate. all who knew him were aware of his devotion to his country. his fidelity to duty. his great ability in his profession. and other fine qualities. which made him outstanding. there are many who will mourn his passing. and feel the loss of a real friend. i join in the expression of sympathy which has been extended to his widow. to his family. and to those with whom he was closely associated in the work of the senate.
 properly to administer the defense production act. in this connection. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the body of the record at this point in my remarks the texts of an editorial entitled "the public loses." which appears in todays washington post. and an article entitled "the deadlock on steel wages and prices." by elie morehouse herrick. which appears in todays new york herald tribune.
. it seems to me that involved in the matter of seizure are much more than the question of constitutionality. much more than the question of increased compensation and benefits for the steel workers. much more than an increase in the price of steel itself. for the sake of argument. i am willing to concede that this kind of action by the government is constitutional and that the increase in wages and benefits demanded by the unions is justified and proper. however. i do  concede that. the constitutional aspects of the situation being whatever they may be. the government has the moral right to determine profits for any private enterprise by any other process than through the medium of general taxation--specifically. the excessprofits tax. i do  concede that. the constitutional aspects of the situation being whatever they may be. the government has the moral rightwithout the consent of both labor and managementto grasp and perform the function of collective bargaining. thereby acting as dictator over labor and management alike and abandoning its traditional and fundamental role in this very sensitive field of human relations. the traditional role of government in dealing with human relations in a free society is that of establishing and enforcing rules of conduct by which the parties in dispute may have the opportunity voluntarily. and therefore more happily. to reach agreement. applying this principle to labormanagement relations. we can well be guided by the following rule long ago adopted by the new york state legislature. i quote it because it is so pertinent at this time: the chief function of government. in dealing with workeremployer relationships. should be to promote good will. to encourage cooperation and. where resort is made to intervention. to be impartial and just. demanding obedience to all law by both parties concerned. in the final analysis. only good will and.  laws can assure peaceful and stable labormanagement relations. i have felt always that mutual confidence and respect must be the basis for sound and satisfactory labormanagement relations. my philosophy is best summed up in a declaration by the new york state joint legislative committee on industrial and labor conditions. which i quote: the most satisfactory and happiest human relationships are the product  of legal compulsion. but rather of voluntary determination among human beings to cooperate withone aher. though we may legislate to the end of time. there will never be industrial peace and harmony without good faith. integrity. a high degree of responsibility and a real desire to cooperate on the part of all parties concerned. without this spirit of good will. all of the social. ecoic. and labor laws of man will prove eventually to be in vain. continual dependence on government to make the decisions in the solution of problems. which can be handled better through the use of the voluntary processes and without the intervention of government. can result only in placing further restrictions on personal freedom. such procedure. moreover. can only place new limits on freedom of action and association. evidence of the growing tendency to abdicate to government in matters pertaining to labcrmanagement relations became very apparent during world war ii when both labor and management continually were seeking decisions by the war labor board to settle misunderstandings or differences. most of those questions should have been resolved voluntarily or through the utilization of governmental agencies. whose purpose was to help in settling disputes by way of voluntary processes and procedures. conference. conciliation. persuasion. mediationthese efficacious media for reaching peaceful agreements were largely iged and neglected. inthe name of speedregardless of basic motivethe iron hand of government was sought and obtained. so . in the present defense emergency. there is a demand that government invade the field of labormanagement relations by stepping into disputes. taking sides. making decisions. and throwing collective bargaining into the ashcan. there seem to be some. in fact. who are determined that labor and management shall take one more step along the fateful path leading to a destination of desrotism. from which return may be impossible. let us remember that that kind of government which can deny to management the right of collective bargaining. can deny the same right also to labor. let us remember that that kind of government which can destroy the profit motive and force business into bankruptcy also can force labor into a condition of virtual slavery. over the long pull labor stands to lose more than does management if the governments action with respect to the steel industry is to stand as a precedent and seizure is to become permanent government policy to be exercised promiscuously and according to the whims and prejudices of any chief executive who may happen to hold office. herein is a definite threat to the freedom of american labor. therefore. i favor the fergusonbridgesklandcapehart amendment. which i understand is soon to be called up. an amendment which would place a needed check on an irresponsible or powermad chief executive. though differing in its procedural provisions from the terms of a nationalemergency amendment to the tafthartley act. which i offered in 1949. its purpose is nevertheless very similar to that of my amendment. it would provide protection for the rights and interests of labor. management. and the public. insofar as it is possible to do so at any given time and with respect to any particular situation. to attempt to do more would be  only superfluous. but perhaps unwise. to do less would leave freedom in america in jeopardy.
that could be done. of course. if coordination were required. but it would  necessarily have to be done. coordination as i understand it means the recognition of a relationship between the wage authority and the price authority to the extent that they pay attention to one aher.
. i think it would be hard to deny that there is a relationship between wages and prices. from the standpoint of ecoics. i have never kn of that theory having been questioned. we all k that wages have a strong and direct bearing on prices. therefore. there is a relationship between wages and prices and that relationship. it seems to me. should be recognized in any measure pertaining to wage control and price control. that is the sole purpose of this amendment. that is. to have the wage stabilization board and the ops so related in their activities that one will k what the other is doing. at the moment. one of them at least apparently pays attention to what the other is doing. anyone who thinks that an agency may set a price in utter disregard of the wages which may be determined and paid is. from an ecoic standpoint. completely in error. the sole purpose of this amendment is to stabilize wages and prices so that their relationship will be recognized and so that the results of the efforts to preserve that relationship will be satisfactory.
. once more. on my own time. i merely wish to point out that the amendment does  do what my distinguished colleague seems to think it does. it does  provide that the wage stabilization board is to fix wages and prices. it does provide. however. that the ecoic stabiliza.tion agency. which is the overall and top agency of which both the wage stabilization board and the ops are operating units. shall in and of itself coordinate the activities of the subordinate agencies. so that the relationship between wages and prices shall be taken into consideration. i think everyone ks that. in some cases. wages constitute practically 80 percent of the cost of production. so the purpose of the amendment is to provide that this relationship shall be recognized and that as a result we shall  have prices which utterly disregard the wage scale and the wage factor and we shall  have a wage scale utterly disregarding whatever price may finally be fixed. it is a question of coordination.
that is correct. what i do intend is to make sure that the ops and the wage stabilization board shall pay attention to one aher. so that when one takes action in connection with a product the other will take action in connection with wages. which are a part of the product.
that is why the senator from new york inquired previously. i thank the chair. because of its importance in our ecoic structure. however. this board does possess the power to do much goodor much harmto our ecoy. recommendations it apparently is allowed to make are. to be sure. without the force of law. but they can and do have a farreaching effect through their influence upon the thinking and action of all with whom they may be concerned. especially has this influence been iceable when the boards recommendations have  been confined to matters pertaining to wages. salaries. and other compensation. i do  question the authority or the propriety of action by an appropriate governmental agency in dealing generally with questions and issues and controversies arising in the course of collectivebargaining negotiations. permanent agencies of this type and for this purpose already exist. but i do question seriously the general and unrestrained invasion of the field of labormanagement relations by a governmental agency whose sole function presumably should be to set. or at least recommend. wage. salary. and other compensation ceilings. and otherwise to act in an effort to stabilize wages. salaries. and other compensation. i believe firmly that such an agency should  become involved in extraneous controversies arising during the course of the consideration of wage cases. which. of course. fall naturally and properly within the agencys jurisdiction. however. to the extent that agency action may occasion a dispute between labor and management over wages. salaries. or other compensation. it seems to me most essential that the agency involved should be granted sufficient power to seek to effect a reconciliation between the parties in dispute. but only after the regular and permanent governmental agencies. which have been established to aid in resolving labor disputes. have exhausted unsuccessfully their own efforts to settle the dispute. in other words. before a wage stabilization board should be permitted to attempt to mediate or arbitrate a labor dispute pertaining to wages. salaries. or other compensation. the federal mediation and conciliation service should have been fully utilized and its director should certify that its efforts have been futile. therefore. i have prepared the amendment i have just offered. which amounts in effect to a substitute for section 106 of the pending bills. 2594. this amendment. it will be ed.  only specifies functions of the wage stabilization board in line with the recommendation i have just made. it also changes the nature of selection of the boards membership. it seems to me. in truth. that. although the existing provision in the law under which the wage stabilization board has been created may have lent and may lend itself to unwise interpretation and even abuse. the pending bills provisions. to which i am referring. would tend to stir up and increase. rather than reduce. labormanagement controversy and strife. when i make this statement. in way do i cast a reflection upon the purpose or motive of the authors and sponsors of section 106. indeed. i join in their feeling that the board in question is so vital to the countrys welfare that it should have statutory status. with definite functions assigned to it. and  be the product solely of executive whim and flat. nevertheless. i can. in the present critical circumstances. accept the idea that a wage stabilization board. consisting only of public membersregardless of how able and fairminded they may bebut deprived of the cooperation and support of either labor or management. can possibly accomplish as much or act as efficaciously as can a board that is equitably tripartite in character and structure and favored with the wholehearted backing of both labor and management. after all. the present emergency does  require the application of any ideal theorymatter how beautifully and perfectly conceived. rather it calls for a plan wlich can bring about the greatest possible cooperation among labor. management. and government in an effort to stabilize the ecoy and in the interest of all the american people. it would appear that. under prevailing conditions. there is need for the formal and specific representation of both labor and management on any board dealing with wages. salaries. and other compensation. it seems to me immaterial whether or  the public members constitute a majority of the total membership. in any case and under any condition of real controversy between labor and management. the ultimate decision would have to be made by the representatives of the general public. if direct representation on such a board by labor and management will induce greater cooperation by either of them. then. by all means. both of them should be thus represented. if an equal division of representation among labor. management. and the general public will induce still further cooperation on the part of either labor or management. then most certainly such equality in representation should be provided. so it is that under the terms of my amendment. a tripartite wage stabilization board would be established. and its members would be representative equally of the general public. labor. and management. all the members would be appointed by the president. and the appointment of the members representing the general public would require confirmation by the senate. in this connection it should be ed that both in section 106 of the bill and in my amendment. the requirements pertaining to the compensation and qualifications of members representing the general public are the same. under my amendment. however. the members representing labor and management would receive $50 a day while engaged in the performance of their duties. together with their actual and necessary travel and subsistence expenses. in both section 106 of the bill and in my amendment the chief functions of the board are substantially the same. with the exception of my amendments. mediation and arbitration provisions. which conform to recommendations previously stated in these remarks. these provisions would permit the board to act as a mediation or arbitration agency in labor disputes involving wages. salaries. or other compensation. if the parties to the dispute should desire or agree to that kind of arrange-. ment. in both section 106 of the bill and in my amendment the boards jurisdiction is confined wholly to this type of case. i believe the terms of my amendment would remove the danger inherent in section 106. as  written into the bill. i believe my amendment is workable and wholly practicable. and i urge my col-. leagues in the senate to consider it favorably.
earlier in these proceedings we have adopted an amendment which calls for coordination between the two subdivisions of the ecoic stabilization agency. that being the situation. if there is proper coordination. which there must be if the entire setup is to work satisfactorily and effectively. the whole case load will be taken care of adequately. i would assume that for the sake of that very objective. the appointing officer. who would be the president of the united states. would name to the board the same persons who  are on the existing wage stabilization board. that should automatically take care of the present case load. they could take care of it as they saw fit. it would be a question of administration only.
for the reason that the members representing the general public. as named in my amendment. and also as proposed in section 106 of the bill. could do other kind of work. but would have to confine their activities exelusively to the work of the board. whereas the labor and management representatives. time permitting. would be able to carry on their regular work elsewhere. all the members would be fulltime members. insofar as the requirements of the board are concerned. but the public members could do hing else.
i have never favored. as a matter of principle. the idea of tripartite boards. they are  a satisfactory way of handling controversial questions which arise in cases in which labor and management are concerned. although  merely cases of this particular nature. after all. the national labor relations board is  tripartite or anything like it. neither is the mediation board tripartite. although their functions are  identical to those of the board here proposed. they correspond in a general way. in this case i am trying to do something which will gain the cooperation of the parties in interest. what is the point of setting up a public group if it is  to receive the cooperation of one of the great parties in interest in this case. namely. labor. and i understand that labor will  go along with a board which is constituted entirely of public members.
i do  think it is proper to have a wage stabilization board. whose primary function presumably is to deal with the wage structure. given authority to expand its operations and to deal with everything under the sun.
the present law is a little vague in that respect. the amendment already adopted this morning will do a great deal to clarify that situation. i do  think it was the intent of the congress to have the wage agency deal with every kind of labor dispute under the cay of heaven. i do  believe that was the congressional intent. and i am sure it was  the intent of those who drafted the law itself.
i think section 106 as presently written will  be acceptable to all parties in interest. and will be  only useless but. perhaps. worse than useless. as i expressed it in my prepared remarks. i am sure it would create greater labor strife than would otherwise exist. and i look upon it with grave apprehension. i believe my amendment is so fair to all parties concerned that one can direct a legitimate. reasonable criticism at it.
i should like to ask the distinguished senator from illis if he does  appreciate the fact that there is a vast difference between the authority which would be granted to the board where mediation and arbitration are concerned. and the authority given to and exercised by the national labor relations board. the functions of the two boards are wholly different.
the senator from illis mentioned the national labor relations board. i am pointing out that there is relationship whatsoever between the unctions of the national labor relations board and the functions which would be given the wage stabilization board by my amendment.
the senator realizes that the union shop issue as such could  be handled by the national labor relations board. under my amendment. any more than it could be handled by the wage stabilization board under his provision in section 6.
the senator from new york would like to inquire of his distinguished colleague from ohio if he does  think that a public board. a board consisting entirely of public members. which would  be recognized. which would  be utilized. which would be absolutely iged or boycotted by either labor or management. could  possibly be more effective than a tripartite board. even though one of the parties should refuse to cooperate.
i am sure the senator from illis would agree with me that it would be perfectly futile to refer to the wage stabilization board. for mediation or voluntary arbitration. any dispute to which one or the other of the parties to the dispute absolutely was in disagreement about the reference and absolutely refused to have the board undertake such an assignment. and absolutely refused to cooperate with the board in such a matter. there would be purpose in that.
i should like to inquire of the senator from illis whether he really thinks a wage stabilization board could have a legitimate offspring which would have hing to do with wages. salaries. or other compensation.
yes. i am very serious about it. i should like to inform my distinguished colleague. the senator from illis. that i am  trying to set up a dual piece of machinery. i am only trying to set up one thing. namely. the exact jurisdiction and function for the wage stabilization board. the other matters to which the senator from illis is referring should be handled by some other agency. i did  see fit to include the other agency in section 106. i should like to point out that there is implicit in the proposal made by the senator from new york that either the ecoic issues will  be settled at all or. if they are settled. they will have to be adjusted by some other board. in that way there would be a dualism which would wreck the structure. 
i believe that the senator from indiana will agree. however. that it was  our fault at the time the legislation was formulated that a board which might be established to deal with wages should consist wholly of public members.
that is the point to which i was coming. of course. . on that basis we would have a choice as between an amendment to be adopted to the defense production act and an amendment or measure of a similar nature which would be in effect only during the life of the emergency. personally. i think the measure we enact should go further than that. furthermore. i would have the measure we pass confined to the emergency existing in the steel industry itself and the controversy existing in connection with that situation. in 1949. as may be recalled. i submitted an amendment to the tafthartley act. in an effort to meet such a situation. in respect to the amendment  before the senate. let me say that i think all of us agree that at least the public members of the board. as proposed in my amendment. should be confirmed by the senate. i believe it would be a serious mistake to take away from the senate the power of confirmation. question has arisen. in connection with my amendment. in regard to the socalled fringe benefits and the amount of territory the amendment covers. i read  subsection (e) of section 702 of the defense production act. which is very brief. and defines the term "wages. salaries. and other compensation": (e) the words "wages. salaries. and other compensation" shall include all forms of remuneration to employees by their employers for personal services. including. but  limited to. vacation and holiday payments. night shift and other bonuses. incentive payments yearend bonuses. employer contributions to or payments of insurance or welfare benefits. employer contributions to a pension fund or annuity. payments in kind. and premium overtime payments. that is the end of that particular subsection. i think everyone who has been listening to the reading of that subsection will agree that it covers a great deal of territory. and that a large part of all the disputes which might arise would have some bearing insofar as that particular subsection is concerned. as a consequence. i firmly believe that the dispute powers which. under my amendment. would be given to the wage stabilization board are sufficiently broad. i do  believewe should extend them beyond that point. they would. in my opinion. enable the wage stabilization board to resolve a great many questions which might be in dispute. in relation to wages. salaries. and other compensationquestions which it is most necessary that the wage stabilization board be permitted to resolve. in submitting an amendment of this particular type. i wish to say that the provision for the particular function here provided was derived from our experience in new york state in connection with the new york state labor relations board. at one time or aher so many disputes arose over questions involving collective bargaining. which could have been mediated by the new york state labor relations board. but which under the law could  be mediated under that process. that finally we amended the law. so as to permit more or less this same type of function on the part of the new york state labor relations board. as a result of that change. which proved to be salutary. many controversies which otherwise might have arisen. never developed. so the amendment is submitted for the purpose of confining the activity to the wage stabilization board. and  to permit of a broad undertaking with respect to disputes generally. if. as i suggest. such an undertaking is to be made. we should have for that purpose a strictly emergency type of setup. but that endeavor should  be undertaken by the wage stabilization board.
. i have discussed this matter with the distinguished senator from louisiana. who has offered the amendment. i appreciate very thoroughly the attitude he has expressed. and his argument has- merit. but i point out that the very reason for making a tripartite arrangement with equal representation on behalf of labor. management. and the public. is that there should be a continuance of the general idea which  exists. namely. that labor should have representation equal to the representation of the general public. on the one hand. and of management or industry. whatever it may be called in the bill. on the other hand. i doubt very much whether the proposal of the senator from louisiana would provide a satisfactory arrangement in the final analysis. and therefore i personally. shall have to vote against his amendment. i can see its merits. though i can also see its demerits. i think it would be a great deal better than to have equal representation on the part of labor and management with a representation.on the part of the public greater in the aggregate than the number of representatives of both labor and industry combined. certainly i would  agree to anything of that kind.
i agree with the senator as to that. i agree that his amendment would prevent a tie of any kind in any controversy in which the representatives of labor and the representatives of industry were divided.
. by and with the advice and consent of the senate. after all. the members representing the general public do hing else. they can get other remuneration of any kind from any other source. in return for which they devote their time to the work of the board. in consequence of their occupying a slightly different roll and being in a slightly different statu s. i thought it advisable to have them confirmed. if. however. the senate feels that it is desirable to have all the representatives confirmed. i have objec.-. tion. i admit that. so far as labor and management are concerned. if they were to be confirmed by the senate their own representatives would thereby have greater dignity in the positions they held than they would otherwise possess. there can be doubt about that.
granting that there is considerable provocation for the type of amendment with respect to prices which the senator is in this instance supporting. i should like to inquire of my able colleague from ohio what plan he has with respect to wages in those industries where price controls would thus be rermoved.
i think there is aher side to this question. i think section 415. dealing with profits. should also be taken into consideration in connection with the item just referred to by the distinguished senator from tennessee. in other words. if we are to consider ceilings or recommendations of the wage stabilization board. consideration should also be given. so far as prices are concerned. to the limits set by the ops. efforts should be made to control profits in an unfair way.
the senator from new york would like to ask his distinguished colleague from illis if he does  feel that under the terms of section 414. as written. management and labor would be empowered to reach any kind of agreement which the two might desire on the subject of the union shop.
assuming that all the senator from oregon says is trueand for the sake of argument i will assume it to be true. so far as his own attitude is concernedand understanding that he believes the majority in the senate should control committees. does the senator from oregon think that he himself should be placed in a position where he. in turn. in the final analysis. may. under certain circumstances. control the activities of a committee as between the two major parties. in this particular instance. i am  talking about combinations of democrats and republicans. which frequently occur in all committees. and frequently occur in the senate chamber. i am talking about committee responsibility and party responsibility in any setup wherein he himself is the odd number as between those who are members of the committee in the twoparty system. for instance. there are 13 members of the committee on labor and public welfare. six would be republicans. and six would be democrats. the senator from oregon would be the deciding factor in any party issue that might arise. does the senator. believing in party responsibility. as he himself says he does. think he should be placed in a position in which he personally would make the decision as between the two parties.
. i introduce tional. neither would there be opporfor appropriate reference a bill to amend tunity for a work stoppage or a lockout title ii of the labormanagement rela- of sufficient duration to endanger the tions act. 1947. with respect to the set- health and safety of the nation. tlement of labor disputes resulting in na- at this point in my remarks. i ask tional emergencies. i ask unanimous unanimous consent to have printed in consent to speak briefly on the bill. the record the text of the bill i have
 would be apt to be very careful  to proclaim a national emergency of this character unless he were reasonably certain that the emergency was truly national in scope. in the next place. labor organizations would be likely to hesitate considerably before occasioning a work stoppage in industries involved in such an emergency when they considered that such work stoppage would bring the whole matter immediately before the congress for action. in the third place. the congress should  be taken by surprise when a crisis of this nature might arise and it should be in a position to pass ad hoc legislation geared appropriately to meet such an immediate situation. in the fourth place. the freeplay of mediation. conciliation. conference. and persuasion would be given the greatest possible latitude with the least possible restriction. finally. in the fifth place. the opportunity for reaching a peaceful settlement of the labormanagement dispute should be at a maximum and interference with such settlement should be at a minimum and there should be a far greater chance that a settlement reached under these conditions would be durable. although this proposal contains certain guaranty by which to prevent a work stoppage. it almost surely would prevent undue interference by government. either in the activities of labor organizations and workers. through the injunction. or in the operation of industry. through seizure. or in the fields of both labor and management. through compulsory arbitration. it should be productive of a better feeling between management and labor than can be realized by any scheme which would force labor to work against its will or would require that industry be operated by government edict and direction or would resolve a labormanagement controversy by government decreeregardless of the attitude of the parties to the controversy. this proposal offers a means by which. insofar as possible. to prevent national emergency disputes without granting to the chief executive a dangerous amount of authority and without burdening the congress with an excessive obligation. i believe it offers a better procedure for the prevention and cure of this kind of national emergency than does any other plan thus far proposed. it offers a powerful incentive to management and labor alike to reconcile differences between themselves by the use of the socalled voluntary processes and without legal compulsion. it should provide all of the benefits to be derived from the sections dealing with national emergencies in the tafthartley act without retaining the undesirable features of those sections.
. i introduce for appropriate reference a bill to amend title ii of the labormanagement relations act. 1947. with respect to the settlement of labor disputes resulting in national emergencies. i ask unanimous consent to speak for 2 minutes on the bill.
 following his proclamation declaring that a national emergency is threatened or exists because a strike or lockout has resulted or threatens to result from such labor dispute. i have  introduced this proposal as an amendment to s. 1026 because i feel that it should be considered on its own merit and simultaneously with the consideration of s. 1026. i believe that somewhere within the scope of these two bills lies a proper solution to national emergencies which are * occasioned by labor disputes. the objectives of the two bills are identical. in answer to those who very appropriately insist that the first consideration in national emergencies resulting from labor disputes should be the public interest. i would point out that i. too. have always believed that the public interest should be of first concern wherever crises of this nature occur. this * is exactly why i have proposed s.-1026 and am  proposing the bill which i have just introduced. under the terms of both of these bills the public interest automatically is paramount. at this point in my remarks i ask unanimous consent that the bill be printed in the record.
. recently chairman paul m. herzog. of the national labor relations board. appeared before the house committee on education and labor and made a statement which is worthy of thoughtful consideration by all who are interested in labormanagement relations. without at this time going into its substance or even the recommendations it contains. i would call to the attention of the congress two editorials concerning this statement. which appeared in the february 26 issues of the new york times and the washington evening star. at this point in my remarks..i ask to have printed in the body of the record the texts of the new york times editorial entitled "nlrbs case" and the washington evening star editorial entitled "give the states a chance."
. i introduce for appropriate reference a bill to clarify the authority of the states and territories with respect to the question of jurisdiction under the tafthartley act. the bill was prepared by my staff in collaboration with the new york state labor relations board and i believe. if enacted. it will clear up largely the confusion and difficulties with which the federal government and the states have been confronted in their effort properly and adequately to resolve the question of jurisdiction over cases which can come within the purview of the functions rf either one of them. in this connection and at this point in my remarks i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the text of a memorandum on this subject. which was prepared by the new york state labor relations board in support of the bill i have just introduced. and the text of the bill itself.
. there appears in this mornings issue of the new york times an editorial entitled "wage and price freeze." which analyzes succinctly and most effectively the present ecoic controls situation where wages and prices are concerned. it is so excellent that i ask to have it incorporated in the body of the record at this point in my remarks.
. i send to the desk for introduction and appropriate reference a bill which carries out specifically the recommendation of the national association for the advancement of colored people and which would make discrimination by an employer or a labor organization against a worker because of race. religion. color. national origin. or ancestry an unfair labor practice under the tafthartley act. besides myself. the sponsors of the bill are the senator from new jersey . the senator from vermont . the senator from nebraska . the senator from connecticut . the senator from arizona . the senator from montana . the senator from west virginia . the senator from illis . my colleague the junior senator from new york . and the senator from massachusetts . all members of the committee on labor and public welfare. the bill constitutes a new approach to solving the problem of discrimination in employment because of race. religion. color. national origin. or ancestry. although important in itself. it should  be regarded as a substitute for s. 692. which is a far more comprehensive and effective approach in our overall effort to meet the problem of discrimination in employment.
. having been appointed a delegate to the forthcoming international labor organization conference at geneva. switzerland. i ask the consent of the senate to be excused from attendance at sessions of the senate commencing at 3 p. m. on friday. may 22. 1953. and continuing until my return to washington sometime in early july 1953.
. some of my fellow senators may recall that late last may. i was excused from sessions of the. senate for the purpose of serving as head o2 the united states delegation to the 1953 annual conference of the international labor organization at geneva. switzerland. upon my return in early july. i found the senate to be immersed in activities aimed at adjournment by the end of the month. . had expected at that time to make a report to the senate on my work and experience at the conference. because of the situation to which i refer. however. i felt that such a presentation on my part would then be inappropriate. and i decided to delay my report until the convening of the present session of the congress. i have prepared a statement on thesubject. which may be of interest to. those who have been or are active in the field of international relations and to those whose attention has been attracted to the field of labor relations at the international level. because of the length of the statement. i shall  consume the time of senators by reading it into the record. accordingly. i ask unanimous consent to have it inserted at this point in my remarks.
. in rising to pay tribute to our beloved colleague. dwight griswold. there is little i can addto the splendid eulogies spoken by other senators. it has been my privilege to serve with him on the committee on labor and public welfare. where he displayed a diligence and a capacity and an understanding and a tolerance for all to emulate. he will be sorely missed. both in that committee and in the senate. in his passing. we have lost a truly distinguished member. and the country has lost a great citizen and an outstanding american. i extend heartfelt sympathy to the members of his family.
. from the committee on labor and public welfare. i report favorably. without amendment. the bill to prohibit discrimination in employment because of race. color. religion. national origin. or ancestry. and i submit a report ( 1267) thereon. the report includes miity and individual views. i wish to point out that. on page 10 of the report. where the individual views of the senator from new jersey and the senator from arizona are set forth. the name of our late colleague. senator dwight griswold. should be added. and i think it would be appropriate to have it included with the signatures to the report because senator griswold did sign it. i ask unanimous consent that the report. together with the miity and individual views included therein. be printed.
. i submit amendments intended to be proposed by me. and which i may offer to the bill to amend the labormanagement relations act. 1947. and for other purposes. one series of amendments would exempt building service employees from the scope of the tafthartley act. just as farm laborers are  excluded. and would permit labor organizations whose membership is substantially limited to buildingservice employees to represent guards. the other amendments would make discrimination by an employer or a labor organization against a worker because of race. religion. color. national origin. or ancestry an unfair labor practice under the tafthartley act. i ask unanimous consent that the amendments be printed and lie on the table. and that they be printed in the record following these remarks.
to the bill to amend the labor management relations act. 1947. and for other purposes. viz: on page 12. strike out lines i and 2 and insert in lieu thereof the following: "that (a) section 2 (3) of the national labor relations act. as amended. is amended by inserting after the words as supervisor a comma and the following: or any individual employed as a building service employee." (b) section 2 (13) of such act is amended to read as follows: "on page 12. between lines 9 and 10. insert the following:". (c) section 2 of such act is further amended by adding at the end thereof the following: "(14) the term building service employee means any individual employed to maintain. heat. or service buildings owned or operated by a person engaged in the business of renting offices. rooms. or other space to occupants of such buildings." on page 15. between lines 16 and 17. insert the following: "sec. 9. section 9 (b) of such act is amended by inserting before the period at the end thereof a comma and the following: unless the labor organization applying for certification is a national or international organization whose membership is substantially limited to building service employees. or is a subdivision of such an organization." renumber section 9 to 23. inclusive. as sections 10 to 24. respectively. amendments intended to be proposed by
to the bill to amend the labormanagement relations act. 1947. and -for other purposes. viz: on page 12. between lines 24 and 25. insert a new section as follows: "sec. 4. section 8 (a) of such act is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new subparagraph: "(6) to discriminate in regard to hire or tenure of employment or any term or condition of employment on account of race. religion. color. national origin. or ancestry: provided. that hing in this act shall be construed to bar any religious or deinational institution or organization operated for charitable or educational purposes which is operated. supervised. or controlled by or in connection with a religious organization from limiting employment to or giving preference in employment to persons of the same religion or deination or from making such selection as is calculated by such organization to promote the religious principles for which it is established or maintained." on page 13. between lines 20 and 21. insert a new section as follows: "sec. 7. section 8 (b) of such act is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new subparagraph: "(7) to cause or attempt to cause an employer to discriminate against any of its employees in violation of subsection (a) (6). or to discriminate against any member or applicant for membership with respect to admission or retention of membership or any other right. privilege. or condition of membership. or to classify or segregate any member or applicant for membership. because of race. religion. color. national origin. or ancestry." on page 12. line 25. strike out "sec. 4." and insert "sec. 5.". on page 13. line 19. strike out "sec. 5." and insert "sec. 6.". and renumber sections 6 to 23. inclusive. as sections 8 to 24. respectively. amendments intended to be proposed by
to the bill to amend the labor management relations act. 1947. and for other purposes. viz: on page 12. between lines 24 and 25. insert a new section as follows: "sec. 4. section 8 (a) of such act is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new subparagraph: "(6) to discriminate against or agree to discriminate against any member of a labor .organization or member of the class or craft of employees represented by a labor organization with respect to hiring. upgrading. promoting. tenure of employment. or any term or condition of employment on account of race. religion. color. national origin. or ancestry: provided. that hing in this act shall be construed to bar any religious or deinational institution or organization - operated for charitable or educational purposes which is operated. supervised. or controlled by or in connection with a religious organization from limiting employment to or giving preference in employment to persons of the same religion or deination or from making such selection as is calculated by such organization to promote the religious principles for which it is established or maintained." on page 13. between lines 20 and 21. insert . a new section as follows: "sec. 7. section 8 (b) of such act is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new subparagraph: "(7) to cause or attempt to cause an employer to discriminate against any of its employees in violation of subsection (a) (6). or to discriminate against any member or applicant for membership with respect to admission or retention of membership or any other right. privilege. or condition of membership or to classify or segregate any member or applicant for membership because of race. religion. color. national origin. or ancestry." on page 12. line 25. strike out "sec. 4." and insert "sec. 5.". on page 13. line 19. strike out "sec. 5." and insert "sec. 6.". and renumber sections 6 to 23. inclusive. as sections 8 to 24. respectively.
 eisenhower stated in a message sent to the meeting to which i refer: free trade unions are  possible under the communist regimes that have seized power in the countries of the exiled labor leaders. however. mans unquenchable yearning for freedom will eventually triumph over these alien rulers and restore to the nations of central and eastern europe the opportunity freely to develop in a free europe. at this point in my remarks i ask unanimous consent to have inserted in the body of the record the may 1 manifesto to which i have referred.
i wish to have one point made clear in my own mind. the distinguished senator from arizona does  insist. does he. that his amendment is necessary in order to meet emergencies which have been occasioned in states by labor disputes. or threatened labor disputes. i think the language of the bill as  written takes care of them. does it .
. and also because there is the question of constitutionality with regard to the matter of cession. i would point out. however. that the present act does provide for cession in certain cases. insofar as i am aware. the constitutionality of this provision has never been questioned. i would point out also that under the wagner labor relations act it was common practice for the board to cede to the state agencies which were qualified to assert it. jurisdiction over industries which were essentially local in character. hing in that act authorized such cession. and this procedure was followed for the convenience and benefit of all the parties concerned. and to assure expeditious action on labormanagement disputes. i k of reason why the present statute can be amended in such a way as to provide for that kind of procedure. if so. such an amendment should take care of the basic situation the junior senator from arizona presumably is seeking to correct. if his main purpose is something else. i am  in sympathy with it. in any event. for the reasons i have indicated. i can support the amendment he proposes.
. i send to the desk an amendment which may be offered by me to the bill to amend the labormanagement relations act. 1947. and for other purposes. the amendment would empower the national labor relations board. in its discretion. to cede jurisdiction over labor disputes and matters of representation. which it might otherwise process. to any state or territory or appropriate agency of such state or territory. this provision would be a substitute for the inflexible proviso contained in section 10 (a) of title i of the labormanagement relations act. 1947. which permits the national labor relations board to cede jurisdiction to the several states and territories only when the applicable provision of the state law is consistent with the corresponding provision of the federal act. as i stated yesterday. this amendment would go a long way toward clarifying the statefederal relationship with respect to labor disputes. as the national labor relations board could again return to the states jurisdiction in labormanagement relations over industries which are essentially local in nature. i ask unanimous consent that the amendment be printed and lie on the table.
 that mediation seems hopeless we do so reluctantly and with misgivings. and only because the results of further delay might be disastrous. if we were required to make such certifications with respect to disputes generally. we would find ourselves in an impossible position. a position which would endanger our existence as an effective agency. if we refused to certify. we would be castigated by unions as a promanagement agency engaged in defeating the right to strike guaranteed by law. is we certified too freely or too quickly. we would be requiring strike votes and perhaps precipitating strikes which might otherwise be delayed or prevented. whichever horn of the dilemma we took. the federal mediation and conciliation service would lose its reputation for impartiality. and would thus completely lose its effectiveness. certifications during world war ii to the war labor board are  real precedents. for those certifications were in furtherance of continued mediation.  prerequisites to strike action. in that connection. i wish to point out that i wholly disagree with the proposal made by the junior senator from connecticut during colloquy that the federal mediation and conciliation service take on a new function and that for performing this new function a new kind of service be established in that agency. in my judgment. it would be the same as having the federal mediation and conciliation service do the work itself in the first instance. salutary result could come from any such plan. in the end it would wreck that particular service of the government. in the second place. this amendment would necessitate a sizable increase in the national labor relations board personnel. requiring a substantial increase in appropriations for the purpose in question. i realize that estimates with regard to this cost may vary and that there has been an inclination to minimize them. as was done in the statement just made by the able junior senator from connecticut . but i point out that it is impossible actually to anticipate what the additional cost would be. i understand that over the past.number of years there have been approximately 5.000 strikes a year in the united states. a sizable percentage of which would fall within the purview of the amendment. i understand also that last year the number of strikes approximated 4.700. it is obvious that supervising a major portion of secret strike ballots in so large a number of instances would require added personnel who could  be employed in other operations of the agency. only experience could serve as a guide in estimating the cost of this undertaking. and there has been real experience in this field. a very serious factor which might confront the board in complying with the provisions of this amendment would be a lack of adequate appropriations. that is something to which the junior senator from connecticut did  refer. judging from the past record of the congress in dealing with matters of this nature. there is assurance that sufficient funds would be made available. in this connection. i have in mind the continual failure of the congress to allow adequate funds for the administration of the unemploymentcompensation laws in the several states. were such a condition to obtain where strikes are threatened. i doubt that it would be possible many times to prevent the strikes. regardless of the secretballot requirement. in any event. under the conditions i cite. bad situations might be greatly aggravated. and. instead of serving as a remedy to meet the problem demanding solution. the proposal of senator purtell might actually make the problem more serious. i realize the amendment provides that state or local governmental agencies could be enlisted in the supervision of socalled secret strike ballots. but i point out that even by such procedure the federal government itself would have to foot the bill and federal appropriations would be required for such purpose. as i see it. it matters little whether this government supervision were to be conducted at the federal. state. or local level. so long as it must be financed by the federal government. the net result with respect to expenditures would be substantially the same in any case. and the disastrous effect of inadequate funds would be clearly evident regardless of the level of government to which might be assigned the actual supervising of the balloting. in the third place. for the first time government would be interfering in the internal affairs and operation of labor organizations. that is  done under any provision of the tafthartley law as it is  on the statute books. it is something new. i feel that such a policy is entirely unwise and without justification. moreover. it is contrary to the philosophy proclaimed by the present administration. which has called for less and less governmental interference in the private affairs of the american people. to those in management who may be supporting this or any similar proposal i would suggest a word of warning. should the plan proposed by the junior senator from connecticut be placed in operation. it definitely would constitute an entering wedge by which government might engage also in the internal affairs of ownership and management. if government is to act as a sort of policeman in charge of one of the more important functions of labor organizations. is there any particular reason. by the same token. why government should  act as a policeman with respect to the stockholders and directors meetings of corporations. certainly such intrusion in the conduct of labor organizations would set a precedent for comparable intrusion in the conduct of corporations. in the fourth place. it seems to me extremely doubtful. even with sufficient governmental personnel. that the procedure provided in the amendment could be effectively or satisfactorily carried out through administration. presumably a vote would be taken at some hour. date. and place after due and sufficient ice would have been given and upon an employers last offer. but what would be the employers last offer when the hour of balloting might actually arrive. that is the question that was raised by the distinguished senior senator from minnesota . we all k that in the course of negotiations over matters at issue in a labor dispute where a strike may threaten. the employers last offer is frequently wholly uncertain until the last moment prior to the final breaking off of negotiations. between the date on which due and sufficient ice would be given with regard to the time and place of balloting and the substance of the employers then stated offer and the actual hour on which the balloting would be scheduled to commence. a substantial difference in the employers attitude and position might take place. as was pointed out by the distinguished senior senator from minnesota [mr. thyei. and actually the workers might be asked to vote upon a proposition or propositions which were  in existence at the time of balloting. in short. the pure mechanics of this proposed operation would make its effectiveness almost impossible in many cases. i am sure the distinguished senior senator from minnesota will agree with me in that statement.
i thank the senator from minnesota for his comments in this connection. . in the fifth place. even if it were possible always to obtain a vote on an employers actual last offer. there is every indication that in a substantial majority of instances the workers would support their union leadership. this was the record under the smithconnally act. which required a similar procedure. and reason has been advanced to cause one to doubt that the same situation would exist under the terms of the proposed amendment. i listened with great interest to the comment of the junior senator from connecticut on this point. and i do  think he established his case at all. we all k that when it comes to a showdown between labor and management. where the position of the union leadership is involved. the members of the union support their leadership at least 9 times out of 10. in a controversy between a labor organization and management the workers are  inclined generally to desert their own leadership. in the sixth place. whenever workers voted in favor of a strike by the proposed processand this is something which has  been discussedtheir action would. in effect. have the blessing of government because it would have taken place through government edict and supervision. this condition many times would have the effect of increasing the impasse between labor and management and making it still more difficult to settle the dispute. over which the strike would have occurred. in other words. instead of serving as a medium by which to bring labor and management into agreement. this proposed governmental intrusion might have the effect of driving labor and management even further apart. in the seventh placeand this is probably the most important of all from the standpoint of labormanagement relationsthis proposal. if adopted. might prove very destructive of sound and satisfactory collective bargaining. most definitely. during the period after the ice of the strike ballot would have been issued. the union leaders. instead of continuing negotiations with the management. would be actively engaged in securing support for the strike. in other words. in that period of time the negotiations would completely break down and a bad situation would become considerably worse. it could  avoid being that way. this activity would occur always at a most critical moment in the negotiations and. instead of serving to remedy the bad conditions then existing -between the management and the union. could only make those conditions decidedly worse. far from serving as a vehicle by which to bring about agreement and restore harmony in the controversy. this kind of procedure generally would tend to intensify the controversy and delay a settlement of the dispute. all the procedure which i have indicated and all the difficulties which i have cited. instead of improving labormanagement relations. would have the effect of causing them greatly to deteriorate. in my judgment. i think such a proposal is a step backward in our efforts generally to improve relationships between workers and employers in the united states. for the foregoing reasons and for other reasons i might mention. i can support the amendment which has been offered by the senator from connecticut.
as the distinguished senator ks. i would strongly favor such an objective if the government itself could be kept out of the procedure. in other words. if it could be done directly and independently by the labor organizations without the supervision of the government. i would favor it. the minute we put government into the internal affairs of labor organizations. as this or any other similar proposal would do. we shall be opening a pandoras box with respect to the whole ecoy. i think the idea the senator has expressed is a wonderful one if it can be translated into a workable plan. but i would  want anything like government supervision of it. so far as i am concerned.
in my judgment. the way to handle it. in the first instance. if we want to make sure. so far as we can at this time. that secretstrike ballots are taken. is merely to put a mandatory provision in the law stating that they shall be taken under the supervision of the labor organization. as pointed out in part by the senator from connecticut . a large percentage of labor unions already have secretstrike ballot procedures. although  anywhere nearly egh. so let us provide definite language. let us include a mandatory provision in the statute. calling for secretstrike ballots under the supervision of labor organizations themselves. then let us see what will happen. if that does  work. it will then be time to take some other approach.
i thank the very able senator from new jersey. i. too. wish to pay tribute to his leadership as chairman of the senate committee on labor and public welfare. on which he has been handling the work so splendidly and to the advantage of the democrats and the republicans on the committee. i am certain the democratic members of the committee will join me in my tribute to the chairman of the committee.
while that might be definitely true in connection with treaties. which i do  believe should be ratified on the consent calendar. i k of objection in the world to this proposal. e whatsoever has ever been raised. as a matter of fact. what is proposed to be accomplished by the joint resolution is already in effect. as i have previously stated. from my viewpoint. because of the action of the other members of the international labor organization. i think it is important that the united states speed action on its part. because the ilo will be convening for its next conference within a couple of weeks. and if the senate does  act promptly. it will be difficult to have the measure acted upon by the house in time. there is objection whatsoever to the proposal. it merely provides a numerical increase in the governing body. and hing more.
. the amendment would exempt from the provisions of s. 3706 bona fide labor organizations whose loyalty to the united states has been proven on innumerable occasions. i am in full sympathy with the purposes of s. 3706. as i k that certain socalled labor organizations have been and are being used by the forces of international communism to destroy free trade unionism and our democratic form of government. on the other hand. organizations such as the american federation of labor. the congress of industrial organizations. and the railroad brotherhoods deserve a great deal of credit for their unceasing efforts to weed out subversive influences in labor organizations. it is common kledge that the communists have infiltrated into labor organizations in every country which has succumbed to the domination of soviet russia. because free trade unionism is the greatest bulwark against any form of totalitarianism.
i do  think it is the purpose to destroy them. i have thought whatever that the sponsors of the bill intend to destroy labor organizations. i do  think that is their intent. i think that is furthest from their intent. but under the bill. as it is drafted. i believe a great deal of damage can be done to bonafide labor organizations. that is why i fear the bill.
i shall construe the senators statement as a question. i do  think senators who vote for the bill tend to destroy labor organizations. i do  think that is their purpose. and i never would construe a vote in favor of the bill to be a vote of that type at all.
that could be done. but i do  think that is the chief purpose of the bill. i believe the chief purpose is the elimination of communism from labor organizations. and therefore an amendment of the type i have proposed-
it is offered to page 2 of the bill. in line 14. following the words "armed forces." the amendment is offered to section 2 of the bill. and it would insert the following words: provided. however. that any labor organization which is an affiliate in good standing of a national federationand let me emphasize again the importance of the words "in good standing." because all of us k that the great federations of labor. the great labor organizations. have been doing their utmost to get communism out of their affiliates. out of their internationals. and out of their locals. that is why the important words here are "in good standing." i shall start again at the beginning of the amendment: provided. however. that any labor organization which is an affiliate in good standing of a national federation whose policies and activities have been directed to opposing communist organizations. any communist foreign government. or the world communist movement. shall be presumed  to be a communistinfiltrated organizaticn.
what i am trying to do is to have the government cooperate in the efforts being made by the great labor organizations which are trying to clean house. and at the same time preserve the necessary protection to the government itself and to the country itself.
it is  my intention to discriminate against other labor organizations. in order to avoid any such possibility in the amendment which i am proposing. i suggest that the amendment be modified. after the words "national federation." by adding "or other labor organizations."
the united mine workers would be covered in the amendment as it was originally submitted. it is a national organization. as i proposed to modify the amendment. the united mine workers and similar organizations would be covered. i shall read the amendment as it is modified: provided. however. that any labor organization which is an affiliate in good standing of a national federation or other labor organization whose policies and activities have been directed to opposing communist organizations. any communist foreign government or the world communist movement. shall be presumed  to be a "communistinfiltrated organization." i think that takes care of every situation.
yes. the amendment reads: any labor organization which is an affiliate in good standing of a national federation or other labor organizationthat is inclusive. it covers any independent labor organization or other labor organization.
on page 2. in line 14. after "armed forces". i propose an amendment as follows: provided. however. that any labor organization which is an affiliate in good standing of a national federation or other labor organization whose policies and activities have been directed to opposing communist organizations. any communist foreign government. or the world communist movement. shall be presumed prima facie  to be a communistinfiltrated organization.
 it does  apply at all. that is definitely implied in the amendment. i should like to read the amendment as it  is. finally. and to ask unanimous consent that it may be so modified. on page 2. in line 14. following the words. "armed forces". add the following: provided. however. that any labor organization which is an affiliate in good standing of a national federation of other labor organization whose policies and activities have been directed to opposing communist organizations. any communist foreign government. or the world communist movement. shall be presumed prima fadie  to be a "communistinfiltrated organization."
i have checked the situation rather carefully. and i learn that. so far as the senate is concerned. any debate on this subject which may have occurred in the past never showed that it was the intent of the senate to have the national labor relations board intervene in hotel cases. i do  think there was ever much debate on that particular subject in the senate. i have in mind a st. louis case. the only debate on the particular point raised occurred in the course of the debate in the senate in 1949. there was some discussion of the subject at that time. senator taft. who happened to be the sponsor of the bill with which i did  agree. made a statement to the effect that it was never the intention of the congress to have the labor relations board assert jurisdiction over hotel cases. i quote from what he had to say: the tafthartley law did  change in any way the language providing for the jurisdiction of the board. or the general definition of interstate commerce * * * it was  my intention in 1947.  do i believe it was the intention of members of the committee on labor and public welfare. to broaden or extend the jurisdiction of the board in that respect. in fact. i feel very strongly that it should  be done * * * a hotel performs its service within four walls. it ships hing into commerce. it produces goods for commerce. in my opinion the act was never intended to cover the hotel industry. in its decision in the st. louis case. which was rendered at that time by a majority of the board. the following statement appears: this expression of senate views coincides exactly with the views set forth by those members of the house of representatives who recently had occasion to inquire into and comment officially upon the same subject. so far as i am aware. that is the only debate in the senate which has ever occurred on this question. i will stand corrected if i am mistaken. it is the only debate that has come to the attention of the board. in any event.
i wish it distinctly understood that i am in way opposing the bill which has been introduced by my colleague from new york. it would be a very salutary thing to have the whole matter cleared up once and for all. however. we should  condemn the national labor relations board as it exists today or as it has existed at any time in the past. ever since 1935. when the wagner labor relations act was enacted. the board has held that the hotel industry does  come within the purview of the act. and the board has so ruled in every case considered by it. furthermore. it should be definitely understood that opposition to having the national labor relations board assert jurisdiction over disputes of this character has  come exclusively from one side or the other in a dispute. both the hotel employers and the major labor organizations representing hotel employeesand this is true of the latest case decided by the board. namely. the one from which i quoted. which is the st. louis casehave opposed the assertion of jurisdiction by the national labor relations board in such cases. that has been true throughout the years. the time has come when this policy should be fully reviewed. i have always had grave doubt as to whether the question should be left strictly to the determination of the locality which may be affected. in many areas it is a local question. in other areasand i believe presumably florida is one of such other areaswhere so many of the hotel guests are from outside the state. presumably the question should be handled by the national labor relations board. however. it should be understood that in the past when questions of this kind arose in new york state. the board or state agency which first took jurisdiction retained jurisdiction. under an understanding between the state agency and the national labor relations board. if florida had such a state agency. presumably the same procedure would have been followed in that state. furthermore. i should like to point out that i. too. and as early as my colleague. got in touch with the national labor relations board and urged it to review the whole matter and to reconsider the action which it had taken in the past. with the idea perhaps of reversing itself in the present instance. i am  a great believer in precedent when precedent is  sound. i think the time has come when probably a board should reverse itself. but. in the first instance. the board must review the decision of the regional director. it is on appeal to them at the present moment. they have had it less than 2 weeks. i understand on the best authority of which i k that they will render a decision within the next few days. so we shall k where we stand and shall k better where we stand with respect to the bill which my colleague has introduced.
it occurs to me at this point in the debate that it might be well to read the subdivision or paragraph which was deleted and for which the paragraph which has just been quoted by the senator from indiana was substituted. i  read that language: (3) any person appointed under the authority of this subsection shall file. under oath. with the head of the employing agency at the time of employment a full and complete report of his outside connections. listing all personal and financial relationships which he has or had within 12 months prior to his appointment with any person. firm. corporation. or other entity. or any trade organization. labor union. or similar organization. and he shall file monthly thereafter. under oath. so long as his appointment shall be in effect. any changes in such outside connections. if the senator from indiana will let me comment for a moment-
my emphasis was  on the chamber of commerce of new york state. although that organization happens to be in favor of private development.  was my emphasis on the associated industries of new york. although. as i stated. they favor private development. too. i was merely pointing to a group of organizations in the state which are very powerful in their membership and influence throughout the state. among those organizations is the federation of labor of the state of new york. whose influence in the state i feel certain my colleague will  belittle. and from whom i read a letter this morning during the course of my remarks before the senate. it was from mr. harold c. haer. secretarytreasurer of the federation of labor of the state of new york. that organization has consistently opposed public development. i have  agreed with them on that. i think my colleague is a little off the track when he assumes i am taking the position that these organizations have taken with respect to private development.
. on behalf of myself and the senator from connecticut . i submit the resolution for appropriate reference. the resolution (s. res. 13) providing for an investigation of labor racketeering by the senate committee on labor and public welfare. or by a subcommittee thereof. submitted by  of the committee.
yes. i can answer definitely and affirmatively. but i wish to point out that we have been in consultation  only with the senators named by the distinguished majority leader. but also with the ranking republican member of the committee on labor and public welfare. who also has been joining with us. all persons concerned have been in agreement as to the proper course of procedure in this matter. the importance of having fiftyfifty representation4 democratic senators and 4 republican senatorsis equally obvious. politics should be involved in such an undertaking. . i hope very much indeed that we can proceed by unanimous consent. because that will make it much easier for the chairman. and also will make the committees work much more effective. and that is the proper course to take in this matter. as i see it. if in this undertaking we proceed in such a spirit. it should go a long way toward resolving the matter of labor racketeering.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to amend title ii of the labor management relations act of 1947. with respect to the settlement of labor disputes resulting in national emergencies. in this connection. and at this point in my remarks. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the body of the record the text of a statement i have prepared. which deals with this matter. and also the text of the bill itself.
. i introduce for appropriate reference four bills designed to help correct abuses disclosed by the investigations thus far of the select committee on improper activities in the labor or management field. one of these bills would insure democracy in labor organizations. aher would prevent misappropriation and misuse of union funds. the third would eliminate abuses resulting from socalled stranger picketing. the fourth would extend criminal liability for certain unfair labor practices to middlemen retained by employers in labor disputes. as well as to employers and representatives of employees. these four bills. in conjunction with previously introduced measures to require the registration and reporting of pension and welfare funds. and to eliminate the jurisdictional mans land between state and national labor relations agencies. constitute a constructive and reasonable legislative program. corrective rather than punitive in its intent. i ask unanimous consent that explanations of the four new bills. and the texts of the bills. be incorporated in my remarks at this point in the body of the record.
i have had a little experience in dealing with bipartisan committees. for 8 years. when i was a member of the new york state legislature. i was chairman of a committee compcsed of four democratic members and four republican members of the two houses of the legislature. we never got into jams. when we disagreed. we worked out the disagreement. . i shall state exactly why the impasse with the chairman of the committee developed: it was because four of us agreed unanimously that we did  want . i wish to state my position regarding any proposal to make labor relations a partisan matter in the congress. which is what the senator from oregon is proposing. by means of his resolution. the democratic members would be responsible for everything pertaining to labor relations done in the committee: i want part of it. and if that happens. i will resign from the committee.
i wish to point out that when the impasse arose. it was  at all in regard to a matter of procedure. it was primarily in regard to a question of policy.  procedure. our viewpoint on labor relations had something to do with the matter. but it was  a question of procedure at all. i am sure the senator from oregon will agree with mefor he ks that i am utterly impartial and utterly partisan when it comes to labor relations. and i always have beenthat procedure had hing to do with that situation. i simply stated what my thought was. and stated what my belief was. and acted accordingly that was his right instead. he could have proceeded to hold the hearing just the same.
time and time again i have sat as a member of the miity when i felt the majority was cramming something down my throat. that is why i wanted a bipartisan committee. that is why we had an impasse. more than procedure was involved. a policy was involved. labor relations were involved.
i do  have that alone in mind. because i have always questioned the advisability of the tripartite approach. which always means the public member does the deciding. what i am referring to primarily is the keeping of politics out of labor relations. it seems to me i recall a time when i understood the senator from oregon felt that way. too.
i so understood. practically automatically. when a question arises. the department of labor can secure the information almost immediately. i have spoken with some of those who are opposed to the amendement. they say it would cause delay. but automatically. almost overnight. the department of labor can ascertain the prevailing rate in any section of the country. so project would be held up. over the years i have had something to do with the subject of prevailing wages. since i have been in the senate. i have participated in getting such a provision into several bills. i commend the senator from new jersey for leading the way in putting the prevailing wage provision into the pending bill. i hope it will prevail. i feel certain it will. the provisions of the bill do  make a grant. i will admit that. they do  propose anything of that type. whereby the government might feel it had a right to say how the money was to be used. but i leave it to the senate to decide whether. when the government lends money to anyone. the government does  have the right to say how the money shall be used. that is all that is involved. we are  giving the money away. so we do  have any control over what it shall be used for. but even though we do  have such control. i think we have a right to determine how the money shall be used. because we provide the money. i thank the senator from new jersey.
i should like to comment on that statement. and then get back on the subject matter. i think we ought to bear in mind that the bill before the senate is a bill on pension and welfare funds. s. 2888. we have gone far afield in this discussion. i wish to say. in defense of my friends on the other side of the aisle. that i k of coalition existing on this matter between the democrats and the labor people.  of the united states. - congress has merely followed out the idea he has expressed in the creation of several subcommittees. this is  a partisan matter. this is  a labor matter in any way. shape. or manner. labor may have its ideas regarding it. labor has every right to have ideas regarding it. but this is  a labor matter. this is a matter regarding the welfare of the people of the united states. and particularly the laboring people whose funds are concerned.
i think that is very far from the purpose of those sections. and far from the purpose of the bill itself. as i stated in my prepared statement. at the present time. under collective bargaining agreements. unions can obtain full information regarding the financial standing and financial condition of the companies with which they are negotiating.
. i send to the desk an amendment and ask that it be printed and lie on the table. on page 26. line 17. the amendment would strike out "this" and insert in lieu thereof "sections 1 to 18. inclusive of this." at the end of the bill it would add a new section. i do  wish to read all of it to the senate this evening. briefly. the amendment i propose would make discrimination because of race. religion. color. or national origin an unfair labor practice under the tafthartley law.
i do  want to take up too much time of the senate. i k there are many amendments to be considered if we go through them all. i wish to state my position. so that it will be definitely understood. regarding this and the other amendments which are  at the desk and which number. i believe. almost 40. after all is said and done. i probably am as much interested in seeing enacted into law legislation of the type represented by the pending bill as anyone in this chamber. including my distinguished friend. the senator from california. back in 1956 i submitted a resolution calling for an investigation by the committee on labor and public welfare. or a subcommittee thereof. into the racketeering influence in labor unions and other places where labormanagement relations are concerned. subsequently. because the permanent subcommittee on investigations of the senate committee on government operations was already in the field in the fall. dealing with the matter. and because of the attitude of the distinguished senator from arkansas the present chairman of the select committee. which is doing the job. we got together. and out of that came the select committee. made up of 4 senators from the committee on labor and public welfare. and 4 senators from the committee on government operations. that is how the committee was organized. by the same token. at the same time that was done. 4 of the 8 senators named were democrats and 4 were republicans. we have kept a pretty bipartisan attitude throughout. when one considers the partisanship incident to an election year. i think we have done pretty well. . the select committee has made certain recommendations. the distinguished senator from california has stated them. and i have stated them myself on the floor. so i shall  repeat them. however. i desire to tell senators how we arrived at them. they were the least common deinators of the feeling in the committee. they were the things we could agree on. by the way. they do  specify any particular bills. they are simply statements of principle or ideas. that is all they are. the bills which will implement those ideas have already been introduced. i. myself. had a program ready last ember 20. the bills were ready. they were prepared at that time. i introduced them as soon as i could after the present session of congress convened. that was the first session when the bills could be introduced. i dare say i was the first member of the senate who had a program dealing with this subject. i do  k. all told. how many bills dealing with this matter we have before us. we have quite a number to consider. i would say at least a halfdozen senators have introduced such bills. i wish to point out that the tafthartley act has been mentioned in the debate time and time again. for the simple reason that the amendments prepared by the distinguished senator from california are amendments to the tafthartley act. i observe that the senator from indiana is  present in the chamber. i desire to recall something in connection with the formulation on the tafthartley act. we did draft much of the tafthartley act on the floor of the senate. and. believe me. the act shows it. there was a good deal of "monkey business" in setting the conference committee together on the matter. because the two houses were then very. very far apart. and the act shows it. as a result. we have had a great deal of trouble with the administration of the act. and the act is desperately in need of amendment.  merely the amendments offered by the distinguished senator from california. but a multitude of amendments. are needed. amendments which would keep the senate busy for an entire year taking care of them if we attempted to do so. because so many of them are controversial. in the proposal of the senator from california. the proposal of the senator from new jersey. and other proposals which will be made by way of amendment to the bill. what it is sought to do. on a much broader scale than was done in 1947. is literally to write a labor relations act on the floor of the senate. i predict that if one of these amendments should by any chance be adopted. the door would be wide open. if that should happen. half a dozen or a dozen more would be adopted. what would happen. the result would be to make a hodgepodge of the bill. when the bill reached the house the chances would be a thousand to one that the house would take action upon it at this session of the congress. i believe the committee is endeavoring to handle the situation in a highly intelligent manner. the distinguished senator from massachusetts has indicated what actually happened when the proposed legislation was before the committee. i was the first senator to bring forward any proposals. they were before the committee early in january. i should be entitled to complain. if anyone is. and yet i do  complain. because i k what has happened. it is highly important that all such legislation be considered by the committee. i do  care so much about hearings. i think the distinguished senator from massachusetts can limit the hearings. i believe that is what he intends to do. so that there will be relatively few persons present at the hearings. that is all that is necessary. so long as we get a cross section of opinion. it is necessary that we sit down together and try to devise a comprehensive program of legislation. the senator from indiana made the statement that we were 3 weeks writing the tafthartley law. or the version which came before the senate. that is correct. but senators must bear in mind that that measure was. written from scratch. it was a brandnew version of labor relations legislation. when it was writtenand the senator from oregon will bear me outwe had idea that it would be the final version. we intended that in 1948 there would be a revision. what happened. a great many individuals decided to play politics with the subject. my own party was  entirely free from guilt. so the tafthartley act stands today substantially as it was originally passed. there have been 1 or 2 mi amendments in that period of time. and that is all. i appeal to my colleagues. particularly those on this side of the aisle. i am in sympathy with the amendment of the senator from california. i do  like the form in which it is written. i question whether it is in the form in which he would want it. i think it should be revised. i myself have an amendment very similar to it. i have pride of authorship. i never have had. i do  care whether any of my bills is accepted or . i want to see the best legislation we can write in connection with this program. so that it will stand up and be susceptible of successful administration. that is one of the difficulties with the tafthartley act. we must consider this program in committee. we must go through it in committee. step by step. if we open the door wide on the floor of the senate. we shall have such a hodgepodge that the bill will never become law. the house will drop it if we pass it. and i would  blame the house either. in conclusion. i appeal to my friends again. i say to them: please do  go along with any one of these amendments to the extent that it will be adopted. i have predicted what would happen. i am in favor of much of the legislation which will be proposed by way of amendment. i will stand for it. and i will stand for what i said about action by the committee. i have great confidence in the senator from massachusetts and the senator from alabama . i k they mean what they say when they say. "we will take action." i assure senators that all three of us who have said what we would do with respect to moving to discharge the committee will do just that. there is question about it. so there will be a bill before the senate on which it can act. i do  wish to put the distinguished majority leader on the spot. he has told us that he will bring the bill to a vote as soon as possible after it is reported. does that mean by june 15.
 but they have as much right to be here as anyone else. this man gave me every indication that labor leaders favor a substantial part of this program. i was  kidding. either. they do  kid with me on this subject. because they have never supported me.
. i resent very strongly a comment of that kind. it refers to me as much as to anybody else opposing the proposed legislation. i want to say  i have never received one penny from any labor organization source or any labor people at any time. as a matter of fact. i have at time had their support. always. ever since i first campaigned for the senate. when some of the labor people were neutral. labor has been opposed to me and fought me bitterly. the comment is utterly wrong. there is basis in fact for it whatever. i have served on the committee with senators in whom i have absolute confidence. i do  think they are in any way. shape or manner subject to that kind of control. i do  believe it for an instant. i certainly k -member on this side of the aisle is subject to that kind of control. i want to repudiate the whole statement by david lawrence.
i should like to comment briefly on what has just been said. for several reasons. in the first place. i believe i am the member of the senate who first introduced a bill on the various subjects to which reference has been made. i introduced my bill on january 9 of this year. also. i released for publication on ember 20 the various bills which had been prepared. i desire to inform the senate briefly what the situation is and what has happened. because i believe senators should be made acquainted with what has occurred. if anybody should be clamoring for consideration of his own legislative proposals. it is i. i have had in mind proposed legislation in the field ever since i have been a member of the senate. and that  covers a period of 12 years. yet i k what it takes to write legislation in this field. and what it takes to have it considered. i have  been clamoring on this subject. and i will tell the senate why. in the first place. the socalled mcclellan committee has been investigating rackets. that came about through a recommendation in the form of resolutions on the part of the senator from arkansas and myself. which were combined in such a way that a single committee was created. i k how the distinguished senator from arkansas feels about this matter. i rise in part to speak in his behalf. to say things which he would  say himself because of his modesty. in my judgment. the distinguished senator from arkansas. who is chairman of the select committee. is indeed. a great american. he has done a magnificent job in the work and chairmanship of the select committee. i am sure the members of the committee recognize that in the consideration of legislation in this field. as chairman of the committee he has carried a certain amount of responsibility. i k i realize that. the chairman has produced certain results which are most valuable. on which the report we are discussing is based. i am referring to the report of the select committee.  the report on the particular bill  before the senate. the chairman has asked that the senate  take action on the amendments to the pending bill. the regular committee. the standing committee on labor and public welfare. could  consider these matters and report a bill. if we had any respect for the chairman of the committee. until he set forth his own program and we knew what it was. because of the heavy load he was carrying as chairman of the committee. he was  in a position to prepare proposed legislation and introduce it until after the report of the select committee. that was made clear at the end of march. because we all had to play a part in it. we all k what a job it was drafting that report. recommendations in that report were discussed yesterday between the miity leader and myself. i wish to say to the senate. and particularly to my friends on this side of the aisle. that if we have any respect whateverand i am sure we all havefor the distinguished senator from arkansas. we will heed his warning and advice with regard to this proposed legislation. i heard the senator from arkansas stand on this floor yesterday and literally plead with the senate  to take action on amendments of the nature proposed until after such matters had been considered by the standing committee on labor and public welfare. with all due respect to my good friend from californiaand he and i are good friends. and have been friends since i came to serve in the senate. when the senator from california was already servingi must point out there are defects in the draftsmanship of the amendments he is proposing. we have been plagued egh in the matter of draftsmanship with respect to the tafthartley act. as the distinguished senator from indiana pointed out yesterday. that act was drafted in part on the floor of the senate. to be sure. some of the bad draftsmanship which was the result of framing the bill in that manner was eliminated in the conference committee. but we could  eliminate it all. and it has been plaguing us ever since. let us  repeat that experience. i desire to see passed a good bill dealing with this subject matter. i am just as strongly in favor of the amendments in principle.  the particular amendments as framed. but the amendments in principle. as is anyone else. a good many of them have been covered in the measure i have proposed. in principle. i am as strongly in favor of the suggested provisions. as my good friend. the senator from california. or any other member of the senate. i favor them exactly as much. i think we all favor them. there is exception in regard to racketeers. we want to clean out the racketeers. the thugs. the goons and criminals who have penetrated the labor organizations. we must do it. otherwise. the future of our country may be in considerable doubt. i am very fearful with regard to this subject. we can take action too soon. but the process being advocated by my good friend from california will result in exactly action. we should follow the advice of the distinguished senator from arkansas. and consider the pending bill as it has been reported. we should dispose of the one bill. keeping it in the shape in which it  appears before the senate. i have confidence. whether anybody else has or . in the distinguished senator from massachusetts . the distinguised senator from alabama . and the distinguished senator from arkansas . i have already indicated my confidence in the distinguished senator from arkansas. i have confidence in the distinguished senator from oregon . i might say i think i have some confidence in my own integrity.
i thank my colleague. i think it is very important that we avoid getting into such a situation that repressive labor legislation might be enacted. i k my good friend from california has more thought of enacting repressive labor legislation than i have. he never has had any such purpose. and i do  think he will ever have. he and i have discussed these questions many times in years past.
let me comment on what my friend from california has said. i agree with him fully in his attitude toward the legislation per se. he and i do  quarrel on that point. i do  believe that we have ever quarreled. particularly. with respect to labor relations legislation. i think he has received about as much labor support as i have. too. we differ only as to the method of handling the problem. i assume that the senator from california would like to see enacted the particular bill  pending. he has been for it all the time in its present form. he has voted against amendments which were offered to change it. when they dealt with the bill itself. and i assume that he would like to see it enacted. this is a question of judgment. in my judgment we have a far better chance of at least having this bill enactedand i think it will be enacted if we pass it  and get rid of itthan if we were to make a hodgepodge of it by adding many extraneous amendments. every time there is a unanimousconsent agreement in the senate relating to a limitation of debate. there is a provision in such unanimousconsent agreement that hing extraneous shall be offered by way of amendment. so we officially recognize that there is such a thing as extraneous matter. even though that term is  to be found in our rules. nevertheless. we use it in connection with many of the things we do. i am honest about this issue. as is the senator from california. if the bill has added to it a great deal of extraneous matter. or any substantial part of it. i do  believe that it will have half the chance of getting through the house that it would have if it were let alone. i believe that amendments to the tafthartley law should be placed in one bill. i think we can pass an omnibus bill in the senate if one is reported from the committee on labor and public welfare. if amendments to the tafthartley are placed in one bill. then if any senator wishes to offer amendments to the bill. he may do so. i have objection to that. i believe that such a bill would have a great deal better chance of getting through the house. if it passed the senate. than would the combination which the senator from california is offering.
i do  believe that they are as eager as all that to see this particular bill enacted. this is a bill to protect the workers themselves from anything which may be wrong in the management of their funds. i do  believe that the leaders of organized labor are that eager to have this kind of legislation. let me say to my good leader that it has required 4 years for us to produce this bill. i grant that it is  perfect. legislation in a controversial field is ever perfect in the first instance. that has been the trouble with the tafthartley act. as i said yesterday on the floor. we should have amended it very thoroughly in 1948. instead of that. we kicked it around as a football of politics. that is what happened. after all the time we have spent on this kind of legislation1954. 1955. 1956. 1957. and  it is almost the fifth yeari say the pending bill is the best we can do under the circumstances. i predict that better bill in the first instance can possibly be passed in this particular field. therefore. i say let us stick to it and hing else. because we have it with this background.
this bill was  prepared by the aflcio in any way. shape. or manner. as a matter of fact. it contains two very substantial amendments which were suggested by the secretary of labor. the bill was approved by the secretary of labor in its present form. that is why i can understand why he has given approval to various sundry. and extraneous amendments which are being offered. it does  make any sense.
i point out that again we are considering a proposal which is  to the bill. the amendment  before the senate is to the tafthartley act. in that connection. i point out that i myself have had a bill before the senate on this question ever since 1953. the provision in the omnibus bill of 1954. which was recommitted. was taken from my own proposal. it is very interesting to e that two paragraphs in the amendment  offered by the senator from utah constitute the first two paragraphs of my own bill. and to that extent. i am all for it. in fact. i think the amendment should be adopted. although  in this way. i shall shortly again tell the senate why. i think the senate will consider the matter. but this proposal shows what we are up against in trying to write this kind of legislation on the floor. the third paragraph of my bill is  contained in the language of the senators amendment. the third paragraph should be considered in the consideration of the proposed legislation. i read paragraph (3) of my bill: the board. in its discretion. may. by agreement with any agency of any state or territory. cede to such agency jurisdiction over labor disputes involving (a) unfair labor practices or (b) controversies concerning representation. in any industry or portion thereof. even though such labor disputes may substantially affect commerce. that is why. in the draft of the bill. we left out that particular paragraph. we thought it went a little too far because it involved interstate commerce and allowed the states to take jurisdiction of actual cases in interstate commerce. in the light of the evidence which has been presented to the mcclellan committee. i wonder if it might  be advisable to include that paragraph. i think the committee ought to be very careful in its consideration of the matter. i predict that when the committee reports the omnibus bill. which will be reiorted on june 10 or earlierwe will take action to report such a billthis matter should have further consideration. i am  talking about hearings. we do  need hearings on this question. we have had them. one disagrees on this question as a matter of principle. everyone agrees that it is absolutely essential. there can be doubt about that. the paragraph in the recommendations. or the socalled recommendations. of the mcclellan committee. which the distinguished miity leader read. i myself prepared. that indicates my feeling on the subject. but i again point out that i do  think we should be legislating in this way on a question which has  been finally decided. the third paragraph in my own bill comes from the labor relations board of the state of new york. i think we should reconsider that in the light of the mcclellan committee disclosures. for that reason. and because the amendment is  germane and will have the effect of wrecking the bill. i shall oppose the amendment of the senator from utah.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the body of the record an editorial entitled "for action on labor laws." which appears in todays issue of the new york times. i believe the editorial provides an excellent analysis of the legislative situation in the congress. as it pertains to labor legislation. and i commend the editorial to the consideration of all concerned.
the amendment offered by the senator from new jersey certainly would clear up the matter. since it would delete the whole subsection from the bill. but it would also place in the department of labor a great deal of additional work. is the senator offering the amendment at the request of the department of labor or at the request of the administration.
i will accept the amendment as a modification. it is my understanding. as i believe it is the senators understanding. that his proposal represents the desire of the department of labor and the administration.
my good friend from arizona is a man of deep convictions and thorough integrity. it is with genuine regret that i can agree with him in his attitude toward the bill. although the junior senator from arizona. as an employer. has had a great deal of experience in the labormanagement field and is widely kn and highly regarded as an enlightened employer. i suspect that his experience with organized labor is somewhat limited. moreover. i am advised that there are only about 32.000 organized workers in the entire state of arizona. is that correct.
. i have  seen any partisanship whatever in connection with the handling of the bill by the committee. the situation which has existed there has been in the best interests of the country. i desire to congratulate the chairman of the labor subcommittee for the way he has handled the bill. without his bipartisan attitudesome persons may talk all they want about his being a candidate. but i say  that he is about the most bipartisan person i have seen around here-
i commend the senator from kentucky for what he is  saying. and also for the work he has been doing on the committee on labor and public welfare. contrary to what he might try to make people think. he has been a very valuable member of that committee. the ideas which he has expressed have helped us through a great many of our difficulties. i commend him for that. i k that the other members of the committee will agree with me in that statement. on the question of the legislation about which he is speaking. an eminent democrat one time made a very sound statement. he said: "we are dealing with a condition.  a theory." the democrat came from new york state. i always had great admiration for him. that man was grover cleveland. so in this instance. in touching on the proposed legislation. we are dealing with a condition. legislation is needed. we want a bill. and we want a bill which can be passed under the present conditions. but. as the senator from kentucky has said. if we load the bill with a great many controversial matters. it is doubtful if it will pass the senate. and i doubt very much. even if it passes the senate. that it will pass the house. that is the condition which faces us. some statements were made a while back about threats being made. it has been said that we must vote for this and vote for that. vote against this. and vote against that. i do  make threats. when i say i will vote against the bill if it contains certain things which i myself can approve. i will vote against the bill for those reasonsand i do  say that lightly. that is  a threat. that is a promise. i hope the bill will be in such shape that i can vote for it.
. i should like to suggest the absence of a quorum. inasmuch as i am about to offer an amendment in the nature of a substitute for the pending amendment. i think it would be a good idea to have as many senators as possible present to listen to the discussion. we are faced with a very fundamental question. and i think senators should k what is going on. we are dealing with a very vital part of the tafthartley act. a very vital element in connection with labor relations. therefore. if i may do so without losing my right to the floor. i ask the privilege of suggesting the absence of a quorum.
. i wish the senator from utah. who is the author and sponsor of the pending amendment. were on the floor while i am speaking. it so happens that he and i for a number of years have been dealing withthis particular subject of the "mans land." civ700 it also happens that i myself am just as much interested in having the question resolved as is the senator from utah. perhaps i am more interested. at least. i am the one who introduced the first bill on the subject. it also happens that. so far as the interim report of the select committee is concerned. from which a quotation has been read in the debate. i myself wrote the recommendation in that report concerning the "mans land." i wrote in longhand the part which has been quoted from the report. i shall read it . because it has been quoted only partly. it is the last sentence. this is the actual recommendation: to solve the mans land problem. therefore. it is recommended that the nlrb should exercise its jurisdiction to the greatest extent practicable. and. further. that any state or territory should be authorized to assume and assert jurisdiction over labor disputes over which the board declines jurisdiction. in that connection. i point out something about the amendment which the senator from utah has offered. i shall read the language of his amendment. it is short. it can be seen exactly what it does and how it fits into the recommendation made in the report of the select committee: hing in this act shall be deemed to prevent or bar any agency. or the courts. of any state or territory from assuming and asserting jurisdiction over labor disputes over which the board by rule or otherwise has declined to assert jurisdiction. that amendment. as the senator from utah has proposed it. deals with only a part of the recommendations of the committee. it deals with the last part. the senator has hing whatever in the amendment which touches on the first part. which calls for the nlrb to exercise its jurisdiction to the greatest extent practicable. that is particularly serious when we realize that in proposing the amendment he is striking out what is in the bill itself. i myself do  wholly approve of what is in the bill. it is  so strong as i would like it to be. it does  do what i would like it to do. that is why i am offering a substitute amendment. in other words. i am dealing with the question in the bill as i would deal with the question if i were in the committee. the proposal in the bill. section 602. at the bottom of page 36. it will be ed. is a little vague. it does  authorize the board to do anything. theoretically. it calls upon the board to do as much as it can. but the question of how far the board will be able to go is left to the boards discretion. i like language a little stronger than that. and i think we are obligated to provide something stronger than that. that is why i am offering this substitute.
of course. i recognize that in new york. for example. much racketeering of that sort exists. we must deal with it. and we must eliminate it. the first part of the amendment deals with that question. in the second part of the amendmentthat in regard to turning over to the states. and so forth. the authority to act in these mattersthe language which follows the proviso is exactly the language of the proviso in section 109 as it  stands. there is difference whatever. therefore. the question which has been raised here. namely. as to the effect or result of the amendmeit of the senator from utah. if it were enacted into law. is eliminated. in other words. if a company has plants in. let us say. half a dozen or eight stateswhich is  at all unusual in the case of some of the large companiesand if each of those 8 states has a law which deals with this question. but which is very different from any other law. confusion will develop. because the provision of the tafthartley law which is being repealed and replaced requires the cession of jurisdiction over any cases in any industry as to which cession can be made. even though such cases may involve labor disputes affecting commerce. unless the provision of the state or territorial statute applicable to the determination of such cases by such agency is inconsistent with the corresponding provision of this actthat is to say. of the tafthartley actor has received a construction inconsistent therewith. in other words. the cession of jurisdiction must be to agencies which are operating under laws which in this particular instance deal with the particular subjects involved. and are identical with or closely egh identified with the tafthartley act so there will be substantial difference. that provision will eliminate the problem the senator from kentucky has suggested as to many different interpretations.
we are in that condition . that is why i am saying the state of new york would much prefer the amendment proposed by the senator from utah. because new york still operates under the little wagner act. we do  have the tafthartley act in new york state. our people in new york state. particularly our labor people. would much prefer the one we have.
with the national labor relations board. and it would be forced to act. if the board wants to state that it can take all the case. let it come to congress and say so. and then the congress can pass the kind of bill it should pass dealing with this question. and it would have information on which to act.  we do  have the information. i have learned that much in the time i have been studying the problem.
that was the kind of language i intended to use. the situation would be simply this: the national labor relations board itself would have to assume jurisdiction. this is the important thing: if the national labor relations board can assume jurisdiction. it will have to explain to the congress -the reason why it can. so we can enact -legislation which will permit that area to be covered. that will be the mans land.
the recommendation reads as follows: it is recommended that the nlrb should exercise its jurisdiction to the greatest extent practicablethat. i point out to my distinguished friend from utah. is  considered in his amendment. his amendment completely iges that point. then follows the part that his amendment does cover: .and. further. that any state or territory should be authorized to assume and assert jurisdiction over labor disputes over which the board declines jurisdiction. that is what the senator covers in his amendment.
i had  expected to speak. but during the discussion i have heard many statements made. and i think i should make a brief statement. in the first place. i want to congratulate the very distinguished chairman of the subcommittee on labor who has handled this particular job so sensibly. his leadership has been superb. he has displayed fine qualities. i predict for him a very great future. i am sorry i had to put the chairman of the subconnittee ahead of the distinguished majority leader. but i think he deserves it in this instance. i  come to the majority leader. who has shown. as usual. his great ability as leader on the floor. there is question about that. in this matter. more than perhaps in others. i have had the opportunity to observe the way in which he operates. while i thought i knew something about operating on the floor. i have learned a thing or two.  i come to my own distinguished leader. the senator from california. i congratulate him for the way he has handled his own position in this matter. i remember. when we were discussing s. 2888. and he proceeded to offer his amendments. i turned to him in the first instance aghast. i turned to him with amazement. but said. "i am glad that you are doing this. because you accomplished exactly what you intended to accomplish." today the fruit of that effort is before us. we have had the results of his effort. i should like to congratulate. in turn. every member of the subcommittee and the committee as a whole. but i do  want to spend that much time. they have all contributed. even those who were opposed to the bill have contributed to perfecting it. the wonderful thing about this is that the united states senate as a body. at least during the time i have been here. has  risen to a little higher level than it has ever before attained in the consideration of any measure since i have been a member of the senate. there has been a feeling of brotherhood and understanding among us. there has been ill will during a debate which has continued the last 5 days. everyone has kept his temper. we had one great objective. and that was getting the best bill we could. it may  satisfy all of us completely. it does  satisfy me completely. but it was the best product we could get in this instance. we have gotten a bill. and we shall send it to the house. i only hope the house will take action on it. the house has a right to change it. it may improve the bill. i hope it does. but this year we are leaving a sort of monument.  only in what is provided in the way of labor legislation. but in the way in which we have arrived at the bill.
 to seek in federal court the appointment of a receiver to operate struck facilities to the extent necessary to protect the national health and safety. . it is increasingly clear that the nation can sustain crippling and grave national emergency strikes resulting in massive layoffs and serious disruption of the ecoy. this legislation would certainly enhance the powers of the bargaining table and requirefor at least 30 daysthe parties to the dispute to bargain within the framework of responsible recommendations. the final bill would amend the fair labor standards act to increase the minimum wage of $1.25 to $1.50 per hour. the present minimum wage of $1.25 provides a wage below that which is considered minimal in the ecoic opportunity act and the elementary and secondary education act. i believe that it is far better for the free enterprise system to provide a living wage than the federal government to institute makework programs.
the chairman ks that i voted to report h.r. 77. the repeal of 14(b). out of the committee. in anticipation of repeal of 14 (b) i introduced five bills. along with senator jacob k. javits in the other body. to keep union responsibility abreast of any enhanced union authority. i would ask the chairman specifically whether assurances can be given today to this house with regard to prompt hearings and a serious effort to report these bills to the house. the bills in question would amend the labormanagement relations act to give the federal courts jurisdiction to enforce provisions of collective bargaining agreements containing trike. ockout clauses if such jurisdiction is specifically accepted in the contract. amend the national labor relations act to insure. when requested. a secret ballot election in union representation cases. give the president new powers to protect the public health and safety in national emergency strike situations. and amend title vii of the civil rights act of 1964 to give the equal employment opportunity commission administrative enforcement and investigatory powers and to stress equal opportunity access to apprenticeship programs with quarterly reports to the congress thereon. which the distinguished chairman reported from his committee today.
. the repeal of section 14 (b) permits freedom of contract between employers and employees with regard to collective bargaining agreements following a majority determination and approval of management. it permits: first. a union shop contract. c -1173 second. a maintenance of membership contract. third an open shop contract. fourth. employment where there is union. a union shop contract requires only uniform payment of dues and initiation fees. which may  be excessive or discriminatory. a maintenance of membership contract requires those in the union to remain members thereof only for the life of the contract. by law a union which represents a majority of employees is the sole bargaining agentbut the contract need  contain a provision requiring membership in a union. this is an open shop contract.
. across the nation there are currently 19 states with righttowork laws. efforts to secure approval of righttowork laws by public referendum have been made and failed in california. colorado. idaho. maine. massachusetts. new mexico. ohio. oklahoma. and washington. righttowork laws. once in effect in delaware. hawaii. indiana. louisiana. maine. and new hampshire. have all been repealed in recent years. in terms of the principle involved. one quotation from the general board of the national council of churches is worth ing: it is the opinion of the general board of the national council of churches that union membership as a basis of continuing employment should be neither required  forbidden by law: the decision should be left to agreement by management and labor through the processes of collective bargaining. in terms of hardcore unemployment and standard of living in the south. a study of prof. vivian w. henderson. of fisk university. and a visiting professor at th carolina state college of the university of th carolina. is worth considering: in only one southern state. florida. have the earnings of negro male workers gained in relation to those of white male workers. in each of the other 10 states.  only did the dollar gap increase. but negroes also lost percentage ground ranging from a 6percent negative change in virginia to a 25percent negative change in arkansas for all male workers. and a negative change in the income of all persons ranging from a low of 7 percent in georgia to 21 percent in tennessee. in other words. although negro income between 195060 increased sharply. the gap between white and negro income was growing.
i think the gentlemans question clearly answers itself. finally. i have long been on record against proposals which seek to abolish or diminish labors right to selforganization and collective action. unions have been largely a force for good in our society but objective person can fail to recognize the need for keeping union responsibility abreast of any enhanced union authority. along with senator jacob k. javits. i introduced in june a series of five bills to strengthen the collective bargaining process. bolster union democracy and equal employment opportunity and improve machinery to deal with national emergency strikes. specifically. the bills in question would amend the labormanagement relations act to give the federal courts jurisdiction to enforce provisions of collective bargaining agreements containing trike. ockout clauses if such jurisdiction is specifically accepted in the contract. amend the national labor relations act to insure. when requested. a secret ballot election in union representation cases. give the president new powers to protect the public health and safety in national emergency strike situations. and amend title vii of the civil rights act of 1964 to give the equal employment opportunity commission administrative enforcement and investigatory powers and to stress equal opportunity access to apprenticeship programs with quarterly reports to the congress thereon. which was reported as h.r. 10065 from the full committee yesterday. in two colloquies with the distinguished chairman of the education and labor committee during debate on the resolution on july 26. i received assurances that prompt and immediate consideration would be given to hearings on one or more of these pending bills. the distinguished chairman also indicated that he would be prepared to act under the 21day rule if legislation along the lines i introduced is reported out of the committee on education and labor. accordingly. i intend to vote for repeal of section 14(b) to support responsible and free collective bargaining. and i will fight for new legislation to insure union democracy and to further safeguard the public interestwhich is paramount.
. today i am introducing a bill to amend sections 8 and 9 of the national labor relations act to provide for the holding of an expedited election in lieu of recognition on the basis of authorization cards or other evidence purporting to show that a majority of an. employers employees wish to be represented by a union. a similar bill has been introduced in the other body by senator jacob k. javits. this bill is a revision of a previous one. h.r. 9060. which i introduced covering the same general subject. the present bill differs from h.r. 9060 in that it revises and clarifies the procedures to be utilized for an election in lieu of recognition on the basis of a card check. it has become increasingly clear that the nlrb has resorted to card checks as a basis for compelling union recognition. as the law presently stands. if a union presents an employer with cards signed by 51 percent or more of the employees. the employer is legally obligated to recognize and bargain with the union. unless the employer has a good faith doubt as to the authenticity of the unions showing a majority. under this rule. an employer can be effectively deprived of his right to present his arguments against the union and then have the employees decide. the employees likewise can be deprived of the right to a secret ballot. even though section 9 of the act provides machinery for conducting such a secret ballot election. a racket posing as a union has a much better chance to get in. on the other hand. it is sometimes argued that the ordinary election procedures of the act. except in organizational picketing cases. may in some cases unnecessarily delay the process of determining the wishes of the employees. this bill. however. would neither be a vehicle for delay  limit the right to a secret ballot election. the bill makes two changes in existing law: first. section 1 of the bill would create a new section 9(c) (6) of the act. and thereby would provide that an employer faced with a card check of more than 50 percent may file a petition and get an election. if he files such a petition. unfair labor practice proceeding based solely upon refusal to recognize the card check will be processed unless the employer dissipates the majority by other unfair labor practices or so poisons the air by unfair labor practices that it would be futile or unfair to hold an election at all. any petition for an election filed under this amendment would be followed by an expedited election under procedures comparable to those  in use under 8 (b) (7)-the highspeed election in cases of organizational or recognition picketing. established by the landrumgriffin act. under the expedited election procedure. all determinations of bargaining unit questions. eligibility of voters. objections to the conduct of the election. and so forth. would be resolved by the regional director with only discretionary review by the board. under this procedure. the time lapse between filing the petition and issuance of a certification would rarely exceed 30 days and often be much shorter. second. section 2 of the bill would create a new section 8(g) of the act. under which. if a card check is presented. the employer is given a reasonable time to verify whether the signatures on the cards are genuine and whether the cards have indeed been signed voluntarily by the employees and have  been revoked. thereafter. if he has good faith doubt as to the authenticity of the unions majority showing on the basis of cards. the employer is obligated either to recognize the union or else file a petition for an expedited election as provided in this bill. if he has good faith doubt and fails either to recognize the union or request an expedited election. he is guilty of an unfair labor practice. in short. these changes cure the main defects in the card check procedurethat it is inaccurate and deprives the employer of the right to tell his side of the storywhile at the same time definitely improving the existing certification procedure by providing a union with a quick procedure heretofore available only in strange picketing cases.
. i am today introducing an amendment to the ecoic opportunity act of 1964 which will mandate the secretary of labor and the director of the office of ecoic opportunity to coordinate the activities and programs administered under this act with those of the u.s. employment service. this amendment is a beginning. if we are to truly break the vicious cycle of poverty. we must have maximum coordination of all federal programs from the time the individual is initially interviewed through the various stages of. training and retraining to final placement in a lasting job.
. the basic provisions of this bill are sound. they respond to the needs of our ecoy and of the working men and women who make it viable. however. inclusion under the act of establishments whose annual dollar volume is as low as $250.000 carries with it the potential danger af forcing out of the ecoic pipeline many americans whose employment depends upon the ability of the retail or service enterprise to maintain a yearround work force. particularly in the retail trade. many americans are able to supplement other income of the family unit by part- or fulltime work under wage or hour conditions  in conformity with the provisions of the fair labor standards act. often this additional income means that the family can afford to send to college a son or daughter who otherwise might  have the benefit of a higher education. if retail and .service establishments are required to impose stringent operational ecoies. many of these workers may be displaced. the point is that we must beware lest the virtues of extended coverage be outweighed by the danger of increased unemployment in this vital sector of our ecoy. i do  propose that we abandon today the second step of extended coverage. i do propose that we insure adequate time for full and comprehensive study of the impact on our ecoy of the initial extension of coverage. if. after such study. the secretary of labor finds that increased unemployment is  likely to result from further coverage. additional legislation will be needed to implement the second step. we will have made certain. however. that our legislative intent in broadening the coverage of the fair labor standards act is carried out.
therefore. there are a number of single establishments. such as a .bookstore. a pharmacy. or a small retail outlet. that are presently  under the coverage of the fair labor standards act and would  be covered until you get down to $500.000 or $250.000.
the gentleman raised two questions. as i recall it. one was the existing experience. section 13(a) (2) (iv) of the present law exempts from coverage an establishment that is part of a $1 million enterprise if it does less than $250.000 gross annual sales. in other words. the law  covers $250.000 establishments only if they are part of a million dollar enterprise. or chain. it is my understanding the legislation before us would cover a single establishment which has  been presently covered and. therefore. there is  any certain experience. second. i am  trying to assume one way or aher with regard to the impact of the legislation. but there is a presumption that it could affect some retail and other establishments. what we are trying to do is to make certain that the congress ks what that impact will be by requiring that the secretary of labor make a careful and thoughtful study prior to the extension of coverage. the thought is that we should have a very careful examination because there are some stores in retail and other outlets that will be affected by the fair labor standards act for the first time by reason of the lower dollar volume test. they are concerned that this could affect their hiring and could. perhaps. result in some curtailment of certain parttime and fulltime employment that is often a necessary supplement to other income of the family unit.
. i am pleased to join my republican colleagues today in introducing the national home ownership act. which has been developed by senator percy and representative widnall. through a national home ownership foundation. this legislation would encourage private enterprise and profit organizations to generate mortgage moneyusing private capitalthat would be available to lower income families to enable them to own their own homes. the foundation would also encourage the local organizations to render the technical assistance that is necessary to make actual ownership a reality. the federal government would contribute financially in terms of an interest subsidy but private effort is the principal thrust of the measure. it is important that we make every opportunity available to those americans who have been denied the chance to participate in our tradition of pride in homeownership. a tradition that brings with it a community spirit and sense of participation in local affairs. often. because of the difficulty in obtaining mortgages through the usual channels or inability to meet the necessary credit requirements. many lower income families have never thought it possible to own their own homes. this measure. in my judgment. represents a significant republican initiative in dealing with expansion of individual homeownership. however. assisting disadvantaged americans to live in their own homes will  solve the problems of the ghetto and the need to rebuild our inner cities as a whole. these are multifaceted problems and require comprehensive solutions. including more and better schools. adequate recreation facilities. and lasting job opportunitiesas well as decent housing. in addition to my endorsement of this proposal. i will continue to support strongly such programs as rent supplements and model cities which are attempting to provide the other types of assistance that our urban areas require.
. i am introducing today the day care act of 1967 which was developed by senator javits and has already sponsored by a number of members of both the house and the senate. this legislation will provide day care for children of lowincome families in order to enable their parents or relatives to choose to undertake vocational training. basic education. or employment. far more than merely providing additional daycare facilities. this measure is designed to attack the problem of growing welfare rolls by encouraging parents to find vocational training or employment once they are assured that their children will be well taken care of during the day. the increasing number of americans receiving public assistance is staggering. in new york city alone. the monthly average of recipients rose from 531.000 in 1965 to 621.000 in 1966. nationally. some 7.5 million people are aided by the four federally sponsored welfare programs. in dollar terms. the total cost has risen from $4.2 billion in 1962 to $6.1 billion in 1966 and these figures provide assistance to only onehalf of those americans whose income level is below the national poverty standard. however. a considerable proportion of the 900.000 mothers receiving assistance under the aidtodependentchildren program are anxious to undertake training and employment if they can place their children in adequate daycare facilities. these mothers want their children to grow up with parents who are working. participating members of the community. and who are  dependent on the monthly relief check. there is a second important way in which this daycare program would reduce the cycle of dependency. the large number of personnel needed to staff and maintain the daycare centers can. to a great extent. be drawn from among the mothers who children make use of these facilities. several existing manpower training programs can assist in training these women for such subprofessional positions. the headstart program has already indicated that parents and neighborhood residents actively participating in their childrens experiences add meaningfully to the entire program. there are a number of other significant features to this legislation which i believe are worthy of special mention. provisions are included in the program to make it selfliquidating. the secretary of health. education. and welfarewhose department will administer the programmay require at least partial payment for the daycare services in the case of those families who. through employment or otherwise. are able to make a contribution. coordination at all levels of government and between all similar programs is mandated by specifying certain mechanisms of program administration. finally. evaluation requirements are written into the bill so that congressional oversight will be a meaningful. concurrent procedure. the bill would authorize $60 million for 1 year as a new part b of title v of the ecoic opportunity act. this should provide about 50.000 new daycare slots nearly egh to meet the need but certainly a meaningful start with possibilities for expansion. and hope for selfconfidence and selfsufficiency for many families who  k only a future of despair.
. i rise in strong support of h.r. 13054. the age discrimination in employment act of 1967. americans between 45 and 65comprise some 27 percerit of the unemployed. their talents and experience can be put to productive use in our communities. many of our ablest citizens are in their senior %years and they have yet to make some of their most valuable contributions to meaningful jobs and in service to their country. in my judgment. we mustand we are   fully--doing everything possible as a nation to forget the word "aged." to recognize that chroogical age has very little to do what the capacity to make a useful. indeed frequently a more important. contribution in many areas. legislation such as this is an important corollary to the older americans act amendments. passed earlier this year. it has the potential to make real the job opportunities that that act is designed to encourage. in february of this year. i introduced legislation. along with senator javits. that was similar to the age discrimination bill that was sponsored by the administration. i am pleased that one of the principal provisions in our bill has been incorporated into the bill reported by the committee. rather than utilizing enforcement procedures patterned after the national labor relations act. h.r. 13054 adopted the recommendation of our bill to follow essentially the welltested compliance mechanisms of the fair labor standards act. this approach emphasizes conciliation conference and persuasion before permitting the secretary of labor to move directly to the u.s. district courts in a civil action. further. i believe that in lowering the age at which this bill becomes effective from 45 to 40. the legislation will provide an additional measure of assistance to those 24 states which  have some sort of age discrimination law and will make even more widespread the application of this policy in states which will afford this basic protection for this first time.
. i greatly commend the gentleman from indiana for his remarks. i support in the most definite terms the amendment offered by the gentlewoman from oregon which would restore funds to the education professions development act. the shortage of teachers in america is serious and getting worse all the time. and it involves literally millions of childrenespecially the disadvantagedand may well involve millions of teachers before much longer. the need for teacher recruitment and for training of teacher aides on a major scale is clear. and can longer be partially funded. i strongly urge support of the amendment.
. i rise in strong support of h.r. 15095. the social security amendments of 1969. i am delighted that the ways and means committee and the house and the senate are finally taking action to compensate the 25 million beneficiaries of the social security program for recent increases in the cost of living. which has been rising at a rapid rate. the inflationary spiral curtails the spending power of all consumers. as my colleagues are well aware. but it most seriously penalizes those who live on fixed incomes. it is high time we took this action to increase social security benefits by 15 percent. effective january 1. 1970. and thus to provide our retired citizens with a more reasonable income. there are. of course. other changes which must be made in the social security law if it is to be equitable to all. specifically. the $1.680 limit on annual earned income should be removed or. at the very least. increased. increases should be made in the benefits provided under the program of aid to families with dependent children. and we should do more for the 3 million poorest aged. blind. and disabled persons in this country. as the gentleman from california
 and the committee on ways and means. who have respectively introduced a good bill. and made a good bill better. and together worked to propose what may well be the most constructive and original initiative i have seen over the past several years. this is a positive program. it is a program which keeps families together rather than splitting them up. which induces ecoic independence rather than humiliating subservience. which provides daycare centers and manpower training programs. and which makes of what was once a stifling and even counterproductive system an open and productive one. it is a program through which a recipient can see the light at the end of the tunnel. where all too often the life cycle of an afdc recipient was from dependency to stagnation.  it can be one of independence and dignity. the precedents that this bill sets are invaluablefirst of all. it has been recognized that family security is the responsibility of the federal government. and matter how important states rights are. it is basically wrong for a family in mississippi to get $39 a month while a family in new jersey gets $263 a month. poverty happens to be national in scope and in originit should indeed be national in solution. and the concepts of national minimus and a federal income floor are progressive steps in this direction. second. been certified as deserving of federal assistance. and third. it is the responsibility of the federal government to help people who want to work but can. by providing daycare centers and job training facilities. this is  to say that i think that the program. as outlined in this document before me. is perfect. i come from a state which has served its poor relatively well. benefit levels in new york are presently the second highest :in the nation. yet. this new plan threatens to substitute new inequities for the old. for instance. although new york state bears 15 percent of the national welfare caseload. under this plan it will get only about 6 percent of the funds. and new york city. which alone bears 10 percent of the national caseload. will get only 1 percent of the fundsa mere $40 million out of more than $4.4 billion in the program. it is indeed unfortunate that the formula as presently stated in the bill appears to penalize new york and the wealthier states which have been progressive egh to institute decent benefit levels. to remedy this and to guard against this possible new inequity. i therefore would urge that the formula be changed and. as the national govers conference has recommended and as both gover rockefeller and mayor lindsay have recommended. that within 3 to 5 years the federal government assume all benefit costs and all administrative costs. federal matching funds should be provided for costs above the $1.600 floor. and they should be increased annually so that within 5 years all costs would be federalized. : am concerned also about the eligibility requirement which precludes childless couples and single persons from receiving assistance under this plan. to deny benefits to people because they are unmarried. though they may be just as poor. just as destitute. as the families around them. is discriminatory. and to penalize a couple who chooses  to bear children. though they too may be jobless and homeless. is unjust and unreasonable. in new york state. for example. there are at least 93.000 poor people who would fall into these categories but who are excluded from benefits under this bill. i would strongly urge. therefore. that the eligibility definitions be reconsidered to provide assistance based on need.  on numbers. second. i believe that the concept of. let alone the funds for. daycare facilities. should be broadened to be more than a welfare benefit. families in a middleincome bracket who desire or need day care for their children should have this opportunity. and could pay for the services according to their ability. although i will of course support the daycare authorizations in this bill for the poor. in new york state alone we need 300.000 to 400.000 daycare places. so i warn against limiting our horizons in this area. i urge broadening both the concept and the funds to include quality educational care as well as custodial care. and funds for construction as well as reation of facilities. third. although i applaud the manpower training program and the work incentives. statistics differ as to the number of persons actually able to work. let alone the availability of jobs for them. it is important that the training be related to the local employment market. and that a decent job will be available upon completion of the training. finally. i am  at all sure that a mother with schoolage children should be required to work. as she is in this bill. if she is. then the state is in fact dictating that her child must be cared for by a daycare center rather than by herself. possibly it is old fashioned of me to suggest this. but i am inclined to believe that to involuntarily deny a woman the option of caring for her own child is wrong. i am under circumstances saying that "a womans place is in the home." but i am saying that she should be given the free choice of working or staying at home. as she would in a assistance family. i submit these reservations basically as a cautionary e that this bill in and of itself may  end all poverty. and as a reminder that we must remain open to suggestions. despite these reservations. however. i consider this legislation a monumental breakthrough. and although i will continue to urge that the federal government take a still larger portion of the responsibility by broadening eligibility. authorizing greater day care funds and employment responsibilities. and reconsidering the mandatory work provision for mothers. i continue to believe that this legislation represents a vital and historic step toward lifting the poor from dependency to dignity.
. i rise in strong support of h.r. 17550. the social security amendments of 1970. while i regret the decision of the ways and means committee  to adopt the administrations proposal to tie future social security benefit increases to rises in the costofliving index. i am heartened by the 5percent increase in social security benefits. effective january 1. 1971. which is included in this bill. we have ll felt the pinch of inflation in the past few months. but the rising cost of living has been hardest on those living on fixed incomes such as that provided by social security. the legislation before us today would provide additional benefits for 26.2 million americans who will be on the social security roles at the end of january 1971. when the first increased checks will be issued. and for all those who enter the program thereafter. for example. a retired worker who  receives $112 per month will have his benefit increased to $125. a retired couple who  receive $195 monthly will receive $218. an aged widow who  receives $101 will receive $123. clearly. these increases are vital if our older americans are to be able to survive in todays ecoy. and i urge that they be accepted by my colleagues. in addition to increasing monthly payments by 5 percent. h.r. 17550 would increase from $1.680 to $2.000 the amount a social security beneficiary can earn in a year and still receive his full benefit. i have urged for years that this limitation on earnings by social security recipients be removed completely. and i will continue to work for that ultimate goal. however. if the earnings limitation is to be retained. i am glad to e that it is at least being increased. with this liberalization of the socalled retirement test. about 900.000 persons will receive additional benefits in 1971 and about 100.000 persons who would receive benefits under present law will receive some benefits. under present law. a widows or dependent widowers benefit applied for at age 62 or later is only 821/2 percent of the primary insurance amount of the wage earner. under the bill before us. a widow or widower would be entitled to a benefit equal to 100 percent of the primary insurance amount. if first applied for at age 65 or later. this measure will result in additional benefits for about 3.3 million widows and widowers when it goes into effect. the fourth important provision of h.r. 17550 would apply the same methods of computing benefits for men as those  applied for womely years up to age 62 will be required to be taken into account in computing average earnings. and benefit eligibility will be figured up to age 62 for both sexes. an estimated 10.2 million men will receive larger benefits under this provision. and approximately 60.000 persons  eligible for social security under present law would be added to the rolls under the change in eligibility requirements. in my judgment. these increases in benefits and the broadening of eligibility. as well as the constructive changes in the medicare program contained in the bill. represent useful modifications in the social security program at a time of increasing difficulty for our older citizens. i am deeply concerned. however. over the portion of the bill which would reduce federal medicaid funds and reduce federal matching funds for nursing home care by onethird after 90 days of benefits in 1 year. and would propose an amendment to change that provision if it were possible. in my judgment. however. the congress has an obligation to assist americas senior citizens. many of whom have source of income other than social security. in a time of rising prices and resulting increased pressure on the pocketbook. i. therefore. urge the house to pass h.r. 17550.
 said: the child care i propose is more than custodial. i emphasize: more than custodial. . i believe that if we are going to provide quality daycare centers and comprehensive early education experiences for all american children. it is important that we have a broad socioecoic mix in those programs. i think it would be a tragedy if once again we denied the lowermiddleincome families the right to participate in these programs. i would ask each of you to think about the poorer areas of your districts and ask how many people would be able to afford a substantial fee to send their children to a daycare center if their incomes are in the $6.000 area. i submit they would  be able to do that. therefore. if we genuinely want to make this program available -to all children and if we want to be consistent with the best precepts of modern education. we should . in my judgment. perpetuate a culture of poverty. but we should make it possible for children from middleincome families as well as lowincome and workingmother families to go to these daycare centers to maximize their potential. if we do. i submit we will  have the number of school dropouts that we do presently. accordingly. i urge a vote against this amendment.
the question that the distinguished miity leader has raised is a good one. and part of the answer is whether we are interested primarily in custodial care at a relatively minimum budget. or whether we want to have an extension of our educational commitment combined with nutrition. health. and other social services. the backers of this particular bill. which has been bipartisan from the outset. have felt that if we were to make welfare work we need a daycare center program so that women can -secure training and obtain employment. and will have a place for their children. and we became convinced at the same time that the greatest educational need was in this particular timespan the president talked about. therefore we have tried to stay clear of merely custodial daycare centers. or merely a program which would provide for only the very poor. and  provide some opportunity with a fee schedule for those in the middle income area. my own honest judgment is that if h.r. 1 is to work most of the standards that are in this bill would be helpful and in the end would give it a necessary impetus. i think that while this bill has been something of a sleeper. and while i myself would have preferred to take it up less rapidly with an opportunity for a party caucus. and upon an understanding of the printed report. etheless it could be the most exciting piece of legislation to help our children in this decade. it is a major advance. and i think it could make a very real difference in the lives of many generations of children. i k that there are differences in the funding levels. and we k that there are slight differences from the 1969 payments in the fee schedules. but in my judgment those can be resolved. i k there are some who believe that some parents might  like this. but i think it should be emphasized that this program is a voluntary program. it is up to the family to make the decision whether or  they want their child to participate. i believe. for one. that this would be the most affirmative thing we could do to back the presidents concern for early child education.
s national commitment to all american children ages 1 to 5. twice repeated. and the statement in the veto message in which he says that: this program points far beyond what this administration envisioned when it made a "national commitment to providing all american children an opportunity for a healthful and stimulating development during the first 5 years of life." if the comprehensive child development bill. which was a minimum beginning after all. goes way beyond the administrations present intent. what is left of this pledge beyond the most empty rhetoric. the experts who testified before tha education and labor committee were virtually unanimous in their agreement that the greatest gap in our educational system and the greatest hope for saving many of our young children rests in reaching them during the first 5 years of their lives. in denying these facts. in pursuing the course of only the most minimal facilities for only the children of working welfare mothers. the administration has turned its back on american children and made a mockery of its own commitment to the first 5 years of life. this horrendous act will cost our society a great deal more than the happiness or unhappiness of preschool children. for this administration will  have to bear much of the blame for the children who. 10 to 15 years from . become addicts. dropouts. and misfits. burdening our society in a much more serious way than this administration chooses to realize. those of us who have worked so hard for so long in this bipartisan effort must and will continue until our goal of quality day care for all those who seek it has been realized. . i wish to propound a number of questions to the manager of the conference report. the gentleman from kentucky. the chairman of our committee which handled this bill. i think the questions and answers will be of great importance both to the members who must decide how they will vote on the conference report and to the administration. my questions concern the selection of prime sponsors for child development programs. it is my understanding of the conference bill that a state. a locality. a combination of localities. indian tribal organizations or public or private profit agencies or organizations may be designated by the secretary as a prime sponsor for the purpose of entering into arrangements to carry out child development programs upon meeting the requirements spelled out in the bill.
. in the light of the fact that 75 percent of these funds are spent overseas. mostly in germany where both stations have their broadcasting studios and some of their transmitters. and that therefore they have to be converted into deutsche marks. because there is a 13percent short fall. and because wage levels in germany have risen by about 4 percent. i would merely e tonight that this may bear watching in the future to guard against any substantial reduction either in programing or in personnel for the radios.
 will  need to sign this bill into law. and i sincerely hope he will  need to do so. for e of us. i think. is enthusiastic about what we have had to do here. there is some danger in this measure in that it takes the wage increase out of the jurisdiction of the pay board. i believe this is a mistake. and i. therefore. voted against the closed rule prohibiting amendments. it is important. in my view. that whatever settlement is reached is reasonably consistent with the phase ii guidelines. it is clear that the public is increasingly concerned and fed up with strikes affecting the national interest and ecoy. the public and responsible legislators will press for comprehensive legislation to deal with emergency strikes. i very much hope that both labor and management will. join in framing such legislation consistent with the national interest and the principles of free collective bargaining. but involving mechanisms equitable in character that will resolve disputes which threaten our national ecoy or transportation systems.
ial veto. the situation today is that senator mondale and senator nelson have offered a bill in the other body. and it is my understanding that they plan to attach it as an amendment to the oeo bill in the senate. so that should the bill before you pass this house and then go to conference. we might well be in a situation with a child development title being added in the other body. i personally hope that we will consider on a priority basis a child development and day care center title. which would be a separate bill. congressman brademas and i are considering once again introducing a separate bill. and it would be my hope that if we are to proceed on this. and if the membership thinks this makes sense. that we will be able to act on that separately in the house prior to the time that we would be faced with acting on a conference report which could include a child development title presented in the senate. but  considered in the house. i personauly feel that there is hing more important than passing a major national day care center and child development bill. incidentally i might e that on february 14. the aflcio executive council adopted a statement on day care. calling . . . "upon the congress to reenact a day care program during the present session." i think such a bill would be the most important extension of our national educational commitment that could be made. and it requires a broad socioecoic mix. including middleincome families that frequently are left out of things these days. but equally a broad socioecoic mix is necessary intellectually for the development of the children. so i hope members will once again consider this title.  of the select subcommittee on education on the floor
. i regret that i missed the vote on the salary bill which occurred earlier today. i was en route from new york to washington specifically to vote against this bill. which grants salary increases for members of congress. among others. and which in my view runs counter to the wage and price guidelines that should. i believe. be enforced on a regular and equal basis. unfortunately. the house voted earlier than i had expected. and although i requested in advance. to be paired against the rule authorizing consideration of the bill. such a pair could  be arranged.
. to those who argue that increasing the minimum wage would be inflationary. that inflation has climbed 38 percent since the last minimum wage increase. a full 5 years ago. in 1968. the bitter irony is that this same minimum wage earner must exist on earnings which even under the vetoed bill do  bring his gross earnings to the poverty level of $4.200 net income. i simply can believe that it is inflationary to pay egh wages merely to sustain life. and i sincerely hope that the members of the house will  be lured into this type of "straw man argument. furthermore. i can agree with the administration position that we must provide a "youth differential." refusing to pay the minimum wage for those under 18. i believe. on the contrary. that we must pay equal wages for equal work. and that it is blatantly unfair and unjust to pay a 40year old twice as much as an 18year old when both are doing the same job with the same level of competence. legislation to increase the minimum wage has been trying to wend its way through the congress for 3 years.  a reasonable increase has been passed. and for the first time in the 35year history of the minimum wage law. it has been vetoed. i urge my colleagues to vote to override this veto. in the name of common decency and humanity as well as the greater national interest.
 i rise in support of this conference report. i think it is an important first step that the house is taking today both in terms of extending unemployment compensation benefits and in terms of public service employment. as my distinguished colleague from new york pointed out. a prime example of those suffering from unemployment are those employees of local governments who have been let go through fault of their own but because of fiscal difficulties. i would add one final thought. that is that i think the country is moving into  a recession. but a depression. senior citizens. among others. are very hard hit. and there are areas in new york state where unemployment has  reached 40 percent. i hope that this measure will be accxx2576part 30 companied by others that start to face the seriousness of our ecoic situation and recognize the human sensitivity and the desperate character of the ecoic picture facing many americans.
 johnson in the state of the union message proposed emergency strike legislation. but without action. so far you have failed the people of new york city. whom i represent. in the. transit strike. the past newspaper strike and  the airline strike. when will you do something constructive in this field. obviously this administration does  want to antagonize those in the labor movement. and i can understand that. but some solution must be offered to protect the public. it remains for a group of authors who help give this country its culture. to come forward with a sensible suggestion to protect the public and yet  cause difficulties for labor or industry. the proposal of the authors league of america. inc.. was made to mayor john v. lindsay of new york city. my predecessor in my congressional seat. during the recent transit strike. it is a "strikework" agreement. the proposal follows:
member of congress. new york. n.y. dear mr. kupferman: as far as my time permits. i have read your speech. i can only state that in all civilized countries there exists the same problem. in vienna. there was created for this purpose an association called "austrian labor circle for se control". the head of this organization is prof. dr. bruckmayer. the address of the organization is vienna 1010. regierungsgebaeude. i believe it would be advisable for the two organizations to be in contact. and i would therefore suggest that you address all further communications in connection with this matter to the labor circle for se control. yours very truly. prof. dr. 0. otny.
i would like to ask the distinguished senator from new york if he will amplify a bit on two parts which seem to me to be the heart of this issue. which i thoroughly support: namely. that it will stimulate the ecoy by encouraging those who receive a tax cut to start into longrange purchases of the type that will foster increased production and thus greater employment. and the second point made which seems to be so valid. the fairness that it is going to achieve in our individual income tax rates. because those who have been moved from a lower bracket into a higher bracket due to inflation achieve greater relative income advance. because they are in higher brackets and thus have a greater portion of their income taken by the income tax. as i understand. in 1956. 3 percent of the american taxpayers were in the 30percent bracket. currently. 30 percent of the american taxpayers are in the 30percent bracket. thus. those who are in the lower half of our income range. we might call it. are paying a far greater proportion of taxes than they formerly were. is that correct.
all right. . i rise as a cosponsor of senator schweikers amendment to establish a special minimum wage for youth. i would like to take this opportunity to pose some questions to my colleagues. every member of this body is committed to solving our terribly vexing problem of youth unemployment. youth unemployment in august was an astonishing 17.5 percent. the 37th straight month over 15 percent. for black youths. the unemployment rate was 40.4 percent. that is a horrifying figure. we have  simply closed our eyes to these startling statistics. earlier this session we passed the youth employment and training act to establish 350.000 jobs at a cost of $1.5 billion. but 350.000 jobs-
twentyfive days. and only was that extended in the human resources committee on which the senator from michigan is a member. it was extended to 30 days by an 8to7 vote. is it  so. i ask. that in shortening that period to this very brief period way below the median time we are going beyond the goals on which this measure is presented to the senate and. indeed. to the country.
if i may interrupt one point there. the senator from michigan is kledgeable in these areas. and he ks as do i. and i believe everyone who is at all familiar with labor negotiations and bargaining. i would say "never." or if the word "never" is perhaps  the correct word. "hardly ever" does a union group come seeking an election without having 50 percent. we all k that. one comes without 50 percent of the signatures.
i would refer again to the senator from new yorks speech. which it seems to me is the principal piece. to date anyway. on this measure. in it he says: * * . it would  change the substantive rights of unions with respect to their bargaining relationship with management. he also says: the ultimate purpose of the unfair labor practice provisions of the nlra is to create a climate which will encourage voluntary compliance with the prohibitions stated in the act. in other words. the whole thrust of this is to overcome these unquestionably unfair and indeed illegal management delays. that is how the bill has been portrayed to the country: "harm. it does  change the relationship between business and labor." but in fact it does. because it has gone into a whole new area that previously was  an area that was granted to the union: namely. the union  has the right to come into managements plant. on to his property. it has the right to address the workers and to say. well. it is merely part of an educational process. if management gets the people into the cafeteria at 10 oclock on tuesday. and talks about the union organizing effort and what all this means from 10 oclock until 10:45 or so. the following tuesday labor can come in and talk to them from 10 oclock until 10:45. on managements property. this is an entirely new right that is given to the unions. never before have they had anything like this. and. indeed. it does substantively change the rights of the two parties. because there is a key difference in the way both of these parties can address the people. we all k. and the senator from michigan ks as well as anybody. having considerable familiarity with this area. that management can only talk very. very carefully to the people that are assembled there. they can make promises. they can hold out hopes that "if this union is defeated. you will receive more vacations from me." or "more beneficent management." hing like that. on the other hand. when the labor people come in to speak. they speak unfettered. they can promise anything. they can tell them that in pawtucket. r.i.. they are going to get the same salaries they get out in detroit. . we k they are  going to get that. but he can promise it. he can promise them the moon. and there is hing that can be done about it. . this is  a fair and equal chance. and so. first of all. i think it ought to be made clear by the proponents of the measure that this is  just merely a bill to straighten out some procedural problems that have arisen but a bill that goes way beyond the existing law and. indeed. gives labor rights that management does  have presently. and in the views of many who come before us and talk with us. it tilts the scale way in favor of labor.
do i correctly understand that what the senator from montana is saying is this: let us take the case in which more than 50 percent have signed. as the bill came from the labor committee. it said sooner than 21 days and more than 30 days. is the senator suggesting that those are working days.
 on transportation policy that must be implemented to bring about a more responsive balanced transportation system through the year 2000. as you can readily tell. this is a job of great magnitude. unfortunately. because of startup difficulties. the commission completed hiring its top staff only in june of 1977. this means that the bulk of the study has only been underway for less than a year. congress originally envisioned a 2year study for this critical commission. and i think it only appropriate that the reporting deadline be extended to allow the full 2year time period. i wish to stress at this point that new additional appropriations are anticipated to meet the 6month extension. i believe that we should provide the time needed by those of us on the commission to deliberate the alternative policy recommendations being developed. that completes by statement. i move that the amendment be agreed to.
madam president. i would just like to sayand this is a prelude to the questionwe all k that this impact aid has developed into a real scandal in this country. and it has gone on and on and has grown and grown. i am on the human resources committee where every effort to cut the impact aid was rejected. and. as a matter of fact. it was increased over what it presently is. yesterday that was cut back somewhat. and i understand we are about back to where the current law is. but  comes aher one. and i find it hard to understand why. although these are. as i understand we are dealing with. a students. why. after everybody has had his hand deep in the impact aid situation. we are at this late date enlarging it even more. it has been told to us that it is de minimis. it is only $4.9 million. well. i do  k whether it is or is . because these things seem to grow. they are $4.9 million this year. and somebody else will find out about it. and it will grow a little more. can the senator explain exactly what is the problem with his students and the basis for it.
. as i say. in the committee i had an amendment to establish a voucher demonstration. and that was accepted. as i mentioned a moment ago. the committee staff inadvertently left out the details of the intended program from the committee report. since the labor department has had the authority to run a voucher program for years. but has  used it. i believe it is necessary to spell out in more detail than usual what we had in mind with this voucher program. therefore. i ask unanimous consent that a proposed explanation be printed in the record. dealing with the voucher demonstration program.
. in addition to introducing performance standards into yetp funding and providing incentives for prime sponsors to do the best possible job. this bill will reduce the regulatory burden of the program. instead of trying to comply with 15 pages of labor department regulations. prime sponsors will be free to develop programs to help disadvantaged youth find good. stable jobs. certain assurances will still be required. such as discrimination. wage standards. and that special efforts are made to recruit youth who receive public assistance. but basically. prime sponsors will be rewarded for good performance rather than meeting pages of regulations. in my view. this bill presents a tremendously positive change in the way we distribute federal tax dollars. it will improve management of yetp funds and provide financial incentives for successful performance while at the same time. reducing government regulations. we owe it to the young people who desperately need training and employment. as well as to the taxpayers who pay the bill. to make this program as effective as possible. by rewarding success. we will demonstrate that we are committed to a quality employment program for our young people. by mr. bayh (for h.mself. mr.
i think the senator misunderstands. i am  opposed to the alaska commission. the alaska commission is designed to deal with the problems that are presented to all the other commissions. namely. unemployment and a whole host of duties that are assigned to these regional commissions. i do  object to alaska having its regional commission.
i point out that roger stevens gave us testimony in which he set forth some of the things that they did. and in his testimony he said: fifteen percent of the tickets to regular performances are made available at half price to students. the handicapped. persons over 65. low income groups. and enlisted military personnel. the amendment that has been presented herethe way i read itcertainly does  provide that.
yes. except there is a difference regarding the withholding in the paycheck. the withholding in the paycheck is estimated based upon the number of dependents. if the taxpayer is successful in the amount withheld. it should come out even at the end of the year. this system is a fiat percentage amount that is imposed whether one is going to have any tax or . so it is quite different from the withholding system on ones wages. as the senator ks. the withholding on wages is geared to the amount of wages one has. if he is earning $60.000 a year. the amount withheld is substantially greater than if he is earning $30.000.
. on march 4 of this year here in the senate we passed h.r. 4612 by a vote of 89 to 3. that bill dealt with changes in the unemployment compensation law. principally dealing with the retirement offset. the amendment that i am submitting today concerns the retirement offset that was involved in that h.r. 4612. beginning on april 1 of this year as a result of legislation that was passed about 4 years ago. each of the states are required to reduce or to offsetthat is aher word for reduceunemployment compensation benefits dollar for dollar by the amount of the pension income being paid to an unemployed individual. the purpose of this offset was to restrict unemployment compensation benefits to those workers who were laid off involuntarily and continue to be in the labor market. that is the whole purpose of unemployment compensation. to take care of those who are laid off involuntarily but are still looking for a job. in other words. unemployment compensation is intended to provide income for those who are unemployed and remain in the market.  those who are unemployed by virtue of being retired. however. the law that went into effect april 1 was very broadly drawn. as i say. this passed about 4 years ago and went into effect april 1 of this year. and that law provides that income from pensions earned from previous employment is included in the offset as well as the pension from the individuals most recent employer. let me give the senate an example of what takes place. a young man goes into the navy at the age of 20. he comes out at the age of 41 from the navy with a pension. he then goes to work for a private employer. say. general electric. and he is laid off at the age of 50. in the current law that took effect april 1. that young mans pension from the navy counts to reduce his unemployment compensation. in other words. he is getting $400 a month pension from the navy. and has had it for years. his standard of living has included this money. he works for general electric for 10 years and then gets laid off. that $400 a month pension from the navy is offset against his unemployment compensation. his unemployment compensation is reduced by that amount. and frequently he collects hing from his unemployment compensation which is there to help tide him over. he is fully in the labor market. he is trying to get a job and he can collect his unemployment compensation. in addition. the law that is in effect provides that the total pension that one receives is used as an offset against his unemployment compensation even though he might have made a contribution into that pension. example: one hundred percent of a persons social security counts against his unemployment compensation even though he paid half into the social security fund and half of what he is receiving. in effect. is his half of what he himself paid into it. my amendment addresses these problems. what it does is it modifies the existing law to require that the reduction of unemployment compensation benefits is only required if the pension comes from the last employer. in addition. states would be given the option to limit the offset to the portion of the pension contributed to by the employer. the employees contribution would  count. in other words. if this young man for some reason was collecting a pension from general electric and then went unemployed or sought to collect unemployment compensation that pension from the last employer. general electric. would count against his unemployment compensation and in addition only half his social security would count. budgetary problems might be raised against this. so i have provided that this goes into effect starting in 1981.  right  because of problems with the 1980 budget. second so i picked up some of the savings we made in h.r. 4612. those savings are as follows: i provided. as we did in h.r. 4612. for a lengthening of the period that a serviceman has to be in the service before he can collect unemployment compensation. currently it is 90 days. in h.r. 4612 we extended that for a year. that saved $43 million. i -provided that the federal agencies must monitor unemployment claims. and that saved $11 million. finally. i provided. as we did in that bill the past year. that an individual who leaves a state can receive extended benefits if he moves to a state which does  have high unemployment. that saved $46 million. so we take care of the losses. the losses are $90 million and this recoups $100 million. i think it is a very worthwhile amendment and i urge its adoption
we estimate that this change would cost $90 million. and we offset that with a total of $100 million of savings as follows: the present law provides that if you serve in the military service for 90 days and you leave voluntarily you can go out and collect unemployment compensation. we would lengthen that period of service in the military to a year. and that would save $43 million. that is just the same language as in the bill we passed here in march by a vote of 89 to 3. second. we would provide that the federal agencies would have to monitor their unemployment claims more carefully than they have. the incentives have provided for that. and that would save $11 million. finally. we would provide that an individual would  be able to leave a state and move to aher state where there is low unemployment and in that second state. assume residence and collect extended benefits. he would  be eligible for the extended benefits in the new state if extended benefits were payable in that state. he would  continue to collect them from his former state. that would save $46 million. all adding up to $100 million. as opposed to the $90 million loss. . i reserve the remainder of my time.
my question is this: i understand that this legislation solely deals with these three administrators as it were within the department of labor and has hing to do whatsoever with  will anything be added to this that deals with changing the law as it pertains to those claimants from 1970 to 1973 which have been discussed previously. am i correct in that understanding.
. this question is directed to the majority leader. the real problem. it seems to me. is this coupling. the judiciary got theirs and it is the executive branch that needs this pay raise. . the legislative branch has a set procedure for receiving pay raises. the quadrennial commission that is going to report back here in january. for us to say we are refusing to face up to the issue. this is  correct. four years ago come january we had the quadrennial commission come forward with the report and we had a record vote on this floor and we voted for the pay raise. so there is a system to take care of them. my question to the majority leader is: is it possible to have an amendment presented here that would retain the cap in the legislature and  have it in the executive. so that the administration can hire the people that they need to hire at the pay that they need to have to attract and. indeed. to retain the people they need. is it possible to have that as an amendment.
. the process of reconciliation was. at times. an extremely painful one. we. as legislators. were called upon to make cuts in a number of very valuable programs. i am hopeful that the net effect of the huge savings we have achieved will outweigh any dislocations which have been caused. at the same time. reconciliaticn did have a more positive and pleasanw element: the opportunity to eliminate waste and to alter programs and spending patterns which have long been in need of reform. one example of such reform was the unemployment loan legislation which emerged from the financeways and means committee conference. i have long sought some of the revisions in thie latv which this measure accomplishes. in january of this year. i introduced legislation aimed at helping numerous states. including my own. which are in deep debt to the federal government as a result of having had to borrow large sums of money to pay unemployment benefits during periods of recession. current law requires that if such moneys are  repaid within a 2- to 3year period. an escalating penalty tax be assessed on the states employers. thus those states whose ecoies are most fragile. are laden with an everincreasing burden. the finance committeeand  the joint conferencehas arrived at a solution to this problem by placing a cap of 0.6 percent on this penalty tax. thus sparing these states from potentially prohibitive rates. the passage of this measure is particularly meaningful in rhode island. currently. our employers labor under an unemployment tax rate which is the highest in the nation. inaauznuch as my state has already taken steps which have resulted in our program being solvent. the measure will bring immediate and muchneeded relief to our employers and taxpayers. indeed. a savings of some $18 per employee will be realized immediately. i am heartened that this action. which combines a sensible and compassionate approach with fiscal responsibility. is part of this historic reconciliation bill. a fuller explanation of the importance of this provision for states facing increased unemployment compensation penalty payments is contained in a news article which appeared in the providence journal on july 30. 1 ask unanimous consent that this article be printed at this point in the record.
. as a cosponsor of s. 1181. i wholeheartedly support this military pay raise bill because it is designed to substantially improve the retention of highquality officers and ncos with the critical skills required for a strong national defense. yet. it does so in a costeffective manner by targeting those military grades where the retention problem is mcut severe. furthernure. it will ease recruitment through more attractive longterm career pay and by reducing the need for new recruits through improved retention. in my view. this legislation offers solid solutions to our countrys most pressing armed services manpower problems and i urge its passage.
. it is  what i mean by an active agent. it is what the statute says. the statute has a definition which we have referred to several times. a covert agent means "an officer or employee of an intelligence agency." an officer or employee. those are words of art. they are  vague. you are employed. you are in the employ of an intelligence agency. then it further goes on to say: (i) whose identity as such an officer. employee. or member is classified information. and (1l) who is serving outside the united states or has within the last five years served outside the united states. so those are  the definitions of the senator from rhode island. those are the definitions in the statute.
. i welcome this opportunity to lend my support as a cosponsor of this measure calling for an extension of unemployment benefits for up to 13 weeks. unemployment has remained at alarmingly high rates over the past several months. it has. therefore. been increasingly difficult for those who are unemployed to find work. this measure is meant to provide some relief for those who have exhausted their unemployment benefits. and who simply can find work. the ecoic and psychological hardships that are wrought on the families of unemployed workers are immense. workers who have tolled faithfully for years. in shops. mills. and factories. are finding themselves laid off and with small prospects for reemployment. the current recession is lasting longer than expected. working americans are suffering. compassion demands that we respond to the needs of unemployed workers. admittedly. we are  curing the problem. but treating the symptoms. yet. the symptoms are serious and must be dealt with. twice before during recessions in the 1970s. congress acted to extend unemployment benefits. in neither case was unemployment at a level as high as it is today. we moved out of those recessions. we should be proud. as we look back. that we protected working americans from the devastating effects of prolonged unemployment. we ought to provide similar protection during this recession so that when health is restored to our ecoy. we can take comfort in having acted fairly and hoably toward those who needed our help.
. my colleagtes and i are acutely aware of the need to assist regional ecoic development in the caribbean. by enacting this bill. we will  only be responding to the development needs of our own citizens in the caribbean but at the same time will be acting to prevent additional unemployment in the states we represent. by mr. danforth:
. i rise in support of the ssdi amendment to h.r. 7093. the 1980 amendments to social security disability require the social security administration to review cases of social security disability insurance recipients at least once every 3 yearsexcept where an individuals impairment is considered permanent. this amendment is in response to the growing concern surrounding the social security administrations continuing disability investigations (cdi). it is my firm belief that the current situation must be confronted and actions taken to inject fairness into the investigation and review process. it heartens me to e the introduction of so many bills seeking to remedy the current situation and to see the efforts of my colleagues to end the injustices infliced on thousands of disability recipients. i believe this amendment represents a sound move toward that end. social security disability insurance is an important part of the federal governments "safety net" to protect those persons who can longer support themselves through work. ssdi is  a welfare program. there is socalled means test to determine benefits. rather. the recipients benefits are based on his or her contribution to the program. for almost 5 million workers and their dependents. this essential program has made the difference that allowed severely disabled people to continue to support themselves and their families. older workers. in particular. have been able to collect benefits under this program when their physical and mental illnesses have prevented them from continuing in their former work. in fact. more than half of the disabled workers on the rolls are 55 or older. in 1956. the program was liberalized to expand benefits to younger workers and to dependents and survivors of disabled workers. it was in response to the rapid growth of the disability program that congress passed legislation in 1977. and again in 1980. which sought to improve the incentives for disabled beneficiaries to return to work. this legislation was accompanied by an effort on the part of the social security administration to tighten the management of disability programs by working toward more uniform disability determinations and by reexamining beneficiaries more frequently to ascertain whether they remained disabled. when a disabled worker is denied benefits or terminated from the ssdi roles. it is possible for the worker to appeal. the disability appeals process involves four distinct levelsthe state agencies. the administrative law judge (aijs). the appeals council and the courts. the number of cases reversed on appeal has been increasing. with most of the increase occurring at the aij level. since 1964. the percentage of reversals has tripled. a lack of uniformity among the different levels of adjudication has created a situation in which state agencies are denying about 70 percent of initial claims while the aijs are awarding benefits by reversing the state agencies in about 60 percent of the cases. this rate will doubt increase even more. as the social security administration reexamines beneficiaries who have  had medical examinations before. the high reversal rate is due in part to the different rules surrounding the state agency decisions and those of the alds. state agencies must make their initial and reconsideration decisions according to the law and to regulations and guidelines issued by the social security administration. the reconsideration process may result in fewer reversals of the initial decision because both are governed by identical rules. however. at the hearing level. an alj is prohibited from using administrative guidelinesthe purpose being to protect the independence of the appeals process from the administration of the program. as a result of the steppedup review process mandated in 1980. problems surrounding ssdi have grown at an alarming rate. disability beneficiaries are being terminated from the rolesmany of whom have  experienced any improvement in their condition. beneficiaries granted benefits in the past are currently being evaluated under more stringent disability standards. for those recipients terminated and who persist through the appeals process to the aij level. almost 60 percent are reinstated. there is an increasing consensus that the problems with the disability review process need to be addressed immediately. consider these facts as additional evidence that remedial action is needed: of all recipients who are initially reviewed. 70 percent are denied disability benefits. (the government accounting office estimates that only 18 percent of those receiving benefits are ineligible. however. between may 1981 and february 1982. 47 percent of the cases reviewed were terminated.) of those denied benefits. 44 percent continue onto the next level of appeal where 85 percent of them are again denied benefits at the reconsideration level. for those who then appeal to the administrative law judge. benefits are being granted to 60 percent of those initially denied. given the present scale of the ssdi program2.8 million recipients receiving $1.1 billion each monththe objective of carrying out the 1980 review is a laudable one. however. there must be a more exact and therefore more equitable way of doing so.
i would say. in answer to the senators question. absolutely. it seems to me that we are hired. we are paid to come down here and to represent the people of our country.  just of our state but of the nation as a whole. and that we have a duty. when legislation comes forward that is rank with greed. to expose it for what it is and to point out the dangers that legislation such as the amendment that we are considering here on the floor holds for most american workers. but. . i do  think it is our duty to come here and solely represent a tiny little group in america that is at the top of the wage scale.
mr. dols. mr. pell. mr. metzenbaum. and mr. weicker): s. res. 140. resolution to express the sense of the senate that the laws which insure equal rights with regard to education opportunity for women should be maintained. to the committee on labor and human resources. by mr. warner (for himself. mr.
i think that how a senator chooses to handle his affairs is up to that senator. i would point out that the laws are far stricter  than they were in the former days. when there was limit and disclosurelimit either in total or on the amount for individual speeches.  it is limited and it has been limited ever since i have been in this chamber. and perhaps prior thereto. but i think the key thing is the disclosure. and that was touched on by the senior senator from utah earlier. as i understand it. i will particularly address the subject of the second socalled fallback amendment. in my judgment. madam president. that is the worst of all worlds. that is the most unfair. it permits the wealthier senators who do  need the income from hoaria. who do  have children they are trying to send through college. or whatever. it permits those senators. because they have need for outside earned income from other sourcesbecause they were fortunate egh to be born rich or to have acquired substantial assets during their lifetimethose senators can receive the higher pay. but i point out this fact. and i think it is quite important: the higher pay means a higher pension. and so those senators go on to the higher pensions and thus end up in the higher bracket throughout their entire lives. as opposed to those senators who. in order to support their families or to educate their children. feel the necessity to go out and earn these hoaria but accept a lower rate of senate pay in order to do so. so. madam president. i am opposed to both the amendments. if somebody wants to come forward in this chamber and support a pay in the form that it was in the former days. say index the pay of 1969 according to the cpi and vote for that. fine. i will vote for it. but until something substantial is doneuntil senators are paid perhaps half the pay of the average new york yankee. or a third of the pay of the average player in the national basketball associationi wish to record myself in opposition to both of the amendments.
. this is a first in a series of statements to be offered by members of the senate childrens caucus outlining problems confronting todays children. on june 9. the childrens caucus held its first policy forum. the topic was latchkey childrenthose children who remain at home unattended for at least part of every school day. figures compiled by the census bureau. the congressional budget office. and studies by the childrens defense fund and other agencies enable us to estimate that about 2 million children can be defined as latchkey children. how do these children cope with the fact that their afterschool hours are spent with little or supervision. some families provide their latchkey children with survival kits which include extra keys. emergency money for phone calls. buses. taxis. or snacks. however. these survival kits do little to counteract the possible longterm effects of this form of neglect. feelings of rejection and alienation. delinquency and vandalism. poor academic and social development. accidents and sexual victimization. clearly the number of latchkey children is  going to decrease. separation and divorce have doubled since 1963. it is expected that 50 percent of american children will live the majority of their young lives in singleparent households. almost 30 percent of the nations children care for themselves after school. who is minding the children. has become a crucial issue for our society. presently. the demand for affordable child care exceeds the supply. by 1990. it is expected that this disparity will significantly increase unless there is a considerable expansion of child care facilities. parents and professionals in the field of day care have made several recommendations to meet the current and future needs of parent and child. these include: first. a national credentialing system to help parents find home day care and to raise the quality of that which is already available. second. home day care workers bolstered by inservice training through community or local school systems. third. alternatives to structured child care provided by local communities. for example. supervised playground activities. block parent projects where a child may report after. school. care cooperatives and exchanges. fourth. a means to monitor. the quality of day care and to report abuses. suggestions include a hotline or check system to report situations where health and safety standards are below par or iged. fifth. communitybased evening counseling for working parents to discuss particular needs of children in care. as well as prevention of delinquency and alcohol and drug abuse. congress is also looking at federal legislation to address the needs of todays families with regard to child ca. . in this way. we too. can contribu. to solving the problem of latchkey ch.. dren.
. i rise in support of the amendment offered by the senator from missouri. if we could just briefly trace the history of the 911 provisions. some years ago. the congress enacted laws reversing a longtime procedure in this country which was to exempt income earned abroad in order to make our workers abroad competitive with other nations. we reversed that sometime in the 1970s and the result was that our workers abroad were subject to the full u.s. income taxes with the credits that would be allowed should they be paying local taxes. the net result was that in those hardship posts in the world. particularly saudi arabiathat is a good il. lustration but it applies in africa and in a whole series of other countriesour engineering companies working there were required practically to pay the tax that was imposed by the united states on our workers. thus making the employment of u.s. citizens far more expensive than employing citizens of other nations. it was a classic case of the united states shooting itself in its foot because what these companies did was to hire other nationalities for the jobs abroad and the net result was a loss of american jobs. so. 2 years ago. we reversed that. as did the house. and we changed section 911 to provide that the first $80.000 of earned income abroad was taxexempt. and that proceeded upward in gradual steps to a total of $95.000. there are some provisions dealing with housing as well. which i will set aside. since they are  covered in the amendment sponsored by the senator from missouri. the result of that change in section 911 is that there has been an increased employment of americans abroad and our large american engineering cornpanies longer are hiring britons or canadians or the swiss or west germans or whatever it might be. they are returning to the custom of hiring americans. we have had testimony to that effect. and so the letters have substantiated this as well. . unfortunately. in the finance committee in an effort to include more income as preferred income. as the senator from missouri has explained. section 911 earnings were included but when all was said and done. it did  cover a host of other preferred income. it ended up solely with the 911 provisions. so the senator from missouri has moved the 911 participants from the preferred income section where they had to pay a mintmum tax. i think this is a good measure. i point out to those who might have some questions about all of this that we have frozen the 911 earned income at $80.000. it will  move upward in the steps as originally enacted in the legislation we passed in 1981. there it would have moved up by steps from $80.000 to $85.000 to $90.000 and finally going to $95.000 exempt earned income. this freezes it at $80.000. we have done that in this bill that is before us today. so the amendment of the senator from missouri is a good one. it means greater employment opportunities for americans. the other side of the coin is that if we did  pass it. we will  get added income and americans abroad will just be replaced by foreign nationals. so it is my hope that the senate will approve this measure.
. in the final analysis. what we are talking about is  what the aarp wants.  who has received a letter from whom.  what the editorials say in this paper or that paper. what we are talking about. simply. is a matter of equity and fairness. that is what we are talking about. how can anyone suggest that a person with $100.000 of taxfree income and $8.000 of social security should get tax on his social security while the fellow who has a modest pension from the uaw or from ford. and some rents coming in. gets hit by the tax. if someone wants to go home to his or her state and say that is fair. i should like to see them do it.
that is exactly right. what we did was to say that as to those people in lower incomes we were  going to tax them on half of their social security. someone whose only income is $8.000 a year from social security will  be taxed. but we are saying that if you move up you cross a certain income threshold. which i have stated is roughly $25.000. then you start phasing in and up to half of ones social security becomes taxable.
the senator has put his finger right on it. and let me just take the illustration of the senator from missouri a step further. let us say for the purpose of the argument that $10.000 is the cutoff. or let us take $6.000 as the cutoff for afdc. a person goes in and says. "i have $7.000 of dividend income. do i qualify." and the answer would be "" the answer would be exactly the same if he was just over the mark with taxexempt income. but the argument that i k we are going to be presented with here is that for some reason taxexempt income should be treated differently because the person has made a sacrifice through investing his funds into taxexempt income. thus he has accepted a lower return and in this great effort of sacrifice to improve the infrastructure of various cities and towns throughout the nation by buying these municipal bonds for some reason should  have that taxfree income counted as the basis for the taxation of social security. it is the most convoluted argument i have heard.
as a cosponsor of the cohenlevin amendment. i want to commend the chairman of the finance committee. mr. dole. and the sponsors of the amendment for arriving at a compromise. i look forward to immediate action and toward resolving the problem which resulted from the 1980 social security disability amendments. since 1980. a host of disabled workers have been deprived of their muchneeded benefits. they have suffered undue hardships as their cases have been reviewed by the social security administration. and they have been terminated from the program only to be reinstated at a later time. i am confident that the debate here today will result in relief for the many disabled workers who depend upon the social security disability insurance program for their livelihood.
why is this group so special that they come around and bitterly complain and are unable to raise the money they were meant to have raised. and they can como in and get $250.000. as i say. let them have that. we will  complain. but then they get what. in effect. is an entitlement program in perpetuitynamely. the income from $5 million. or $500.000. forever. why is that right.
. i am opposed to this amendment. the provisions dealing with the davisbacon act as reported from the armed services committee are reasonable. and in my opinion necessary in these times of fiscal austerity and of emphasis on opportunity for small business. we have spent the better part of the last 5 months beating up on the defense budget. labor interests have been major participants in the debate supporting drastic cuts in the defense budget. these reforms are right up that alley. to be sure. there is disagreement as to how much they will save. but the bottom line is that these reforms will reduce costs. what is wrong with encouraging maximum competition in bidding for defense projects. it is contrary to the best ecoic policy to narrow the scope of competition. geographic or otherwise. the federal government should be combating this type of protectionism.  promoting it. the reforms included in this legislation will open up the defense industry to small businesses. in recent years. i am convinced. the act has worked to the detriment of small businesses. the act gives unfair advantage to large union employers over small union employers in bidding for government contracts. it tends to discourage the small contractors who have  mally paid union wages and all of the restrictions that come with the davisbacon regulations including the onerous reporting requirements. the department of labor regulations  require that federal contractors and subcontractors submit a weekly copy of their payrolls. listing the name and address of each laborer and mechanic and his or her classification. rate of pay. daily and weekly hours worked. deductions made and actual wages paid. they also require the payroll be accompanied by a statement indicating that the payroll is correct and complete. that the wage rates are  less than those determined by the secretary. and that the classifications for each laborer and mechanic conform to the work done. it is  hard to imagine that requirements like these are egh of a road block to small businesses to prevent them from bidding on.government contracts which require compliance with davisbacon regulations. the act might also adversely affect the entry of miity groups into the construction industry. these groups have fewer opportunities because frequently they find it easier to obtain employment in the union sector of the industry. the sector which the act places at a disadvantage in bidding for government contracts. while miity groups are special targets for jobs under federal public works programs. such programs are frustrated to some extent by the act.. as outlined previously miity groups are hurt in aher way as well. they often enter construction work informally as helpers or trainees. because the job structurb in the acts wage determinations tends to follow union occupational classifications and seldom includes separate categories for helper or informal trainees. employers under government contract must pay these individuals at the higher wage rates for skilled laborers or  hire them at all which is the more likely result. the provision raising the threshold to $1 million would exempt 95 percent of all dod contracts. however. it would only affect 40 percent of the total dollars expended for dod contracts. in other words the very large contracts will still be subject to the requirements of the act. in short. the provisions included in this legislation are small but needed -changes in existing law. these reforms are a step forward in encouraging competition. opening up federal contracts to. small businesses and reducing to some extent the costs of defense.
let me finish. what you are dealing with is you have a person who has this arrangement where his money can be withdrawn at any time. under the heinz language in the bill. that money is tax free. it is a wonderful situation. there is question about it. as the senator from pennsylvania [mr. heinz} ks. i proposed in the committee that everybody over 65 have this arrangement and the senator voted against it. i could never understand how he favors this. the senator was opposed to an arrangement that everybody gets this advantage. i do  k what was motivating him. but he said it is fine that if you are in one of these home care facilities with the 18hole golf course and your money is there. and the money is used to care for your costsi suppose greens fees. it takes care of everythingthat is fine. but the poor widow with arthritis who is living in a little cottage somewhere solely on the income from some deposit that she has made. barely able to hobble around. that income is taxable. and the senator says. "right. that is a good arrangement." and we had a vote on it and he voted against it.  we are talking equity here.
. the amendment authorizes the assistant secretary of labor for veterans employment and training to undertake an evaluation of the feasibility and advisability of transferring portions of the veterans job training act of 1983 into title ivc of the job training partnership act. finally. the amendment would name the phoenix. az veterans administration medical center for a former member of this body. and an esteemed advocate for our nations veterans. carl t. hayden. the basic purpose of this amendment is to permit 1 additional year of training for those qualified veterans of the korean conflict and vietnam era who were  able to obtain certification prior to closure of the recruitment period on february 28. 1985. and to find a more appropriate mechanism to address the potential longterm unemployment problems of those classes of veterans for whom the evjta was intended. the senator from alaska states that because he believes this veterans job training act should be extended a year. he has also supported. and recommended. an additional appropria tion of $55 million. although the appropriation measure passed by the congress does  include additional funds for the emergency veterans job training act. senator murkowski is joined by senator cranston and senator deconcini in recommending that such funds be appropriated. senator murkowski. senator cranston. and senator deconcini plan to send a letter to the chairman and ranking miity members of the appropriations committee and the hud/independent agencies subcommittee recommending that $55 million be added to the continuing resolution in committee markup. this amount would be sufficient to ensure that eligible veterans would have a final opportunity to benefit from this successful employment program.
. i ask unanimous consent that the committee on governmental affairs be authorized to meet during the session of the senate on wednesday. december 4. to hold a hearing to consider the ination of jerry calhoun. to be a member of the federal labor relations authority.
mr. dols. mr. pell. mr. metzenbaum. and mr. weicker): s. res. 140. resolution to express the sense of the senate that the laws which insure equal rights with regard to education opportunity for women should be maintained. to the committee on labor and human resources. by mr. warner (for himself. mr.
i think that how a senator chooses to handle his affairs is up to that senator. i would point out that the laws are far stricter  than they were in the former days. when there was limit and disclosurelimit either in total or on the amount for individual speeches.  it is limited and it has been limited ever since i have been in this chamber. and perhaps prior thereto. but i think the key thing is the disclosure. and that was touched on by the senior senator from utah earlier. as i understand it. i will particularly address the subject of the second socalled fallback amendment. in my judgment. madam president. that is the worst of all worlds. that is the most unfair. it permits the wealthier senators who do  need the income from hoaria. who do  have children they are trying to send through college. or whatever. it permits those senators. because they have need for outside earned income from other sourcesbecause they were fortunate egh to be born rich or to have acquired substantial assets during their lifetimethose senators can receive the higher pay. but i point out this fact. and i think it is quite important: the higher pay means a higher pension. and so those senators go on to the higher pensions and thus end up in the higher bracket throughout their entire lives. as opposed to those senators who. in order to support their families or to educate their children. feel the necessity to go out and earn these hoaria but accept a lower rate of senate pay in order to do so. so. madam president. i am opposed to both the amendments. if somebody wants to come forward in this chamber and support a pay in the form that it was in the former days. say index the pay of 1969 according to the cpi and vote for that. fine. i will vote for it. but until something substantial is doneuntil senators are paid perhaps half the pay of the average new york yankee. or a third of the pay of the average player in the national basketball associationi wish to record myself in opposition to both of the amendments.
. this is a first in a series of statements to be offered by members of the senate childrens caucus outlining problems confronting todays children. on june 9. the childrens caucus held its first policy forum. the topic was latchkey childrenthose children who remain at home unattended for at least part of every school day. figures compiled by the census bureau. the congressional budget office. and studies by the childrens defense fund and other agencies enable us to estimate that about 2 million children can be defined as latchkey children. how do these children cope with the fact that their afterschool hours are spent with little or supervision. some families provide their latchkey children with survival kits which include extra keys. emergency money for phone calls. buses. taxis. or snacks. however. these survival kits do little to counteract the possible longterm effects of this form of neglect. feelings of rejection and alienation. delinquency and vandalism. poor academic and social development. accidents and sexual victimization. clearly the number of latchkey children is  going to decrease. separation and divorce have doubled since 1963. it is expected that 50 percent of american children will live the majority of their young lives in singleparent households. almost 30 percent of the nations children care for themselves after school. who is minding the children. has become a crucial issue for our society. presently. the demand for affordable child care exceeds the supply. by 1990. it is expected that this disparity will significantly increase unless there is a considerable expansion of child care facilities. parents and professionals in the field of day care have made several recommendations to meet the current and future needs of parent and child. these include: first. a national credentialing system to help parents find home day care and to raise the quality of that which is already available. second. home day care workers bolstered by inservice training through community or local school systems. third. alternatives to structured child care provided by local communities. for example. supervised playground activities. block parent projects where a child may report after. school. care cooperatives and exchanges. fourth. a means to monitor. the quality of day care and to report abuses. suggestions include a hotline or check system to report situations where health and safety standards are below par or iged. fifth. communitybased evening counseling for working parents to discuss particular needs of children in care. as well as prevention of delinquency and alcohol and drug abuse. congress is also looking at federal legislation to address the needs of todays families with regard to child ca. . in this way. we too. can contribu. to solving the problem of latchkey ch.. dren.
. i rise in support of the amendment offered by the senator from missouri. if we could just briefly trace the history of the 911 provisions. some years ago. the congress enacted laws reversing a longtime procedure in this country which was to exempt income earned abroad in order to make our workers abroad competitive with other nations. we reversed that sometime in the 1970s and the result was that our workers abroad were subject to the full u.s. income taxes with the credits that would be allowed should they be paying local taxes. the net result was that in those hardship posts in the world. particularly saudi arabiathat is a good il. lustration but it applies in africa and in a whole series of other countriesour engineering companies working there were required practically to pay the tax that was imposed by the united states on our workers. thus making the employment of u.s. citizens far more expensive than employing citizens of other nations. it was a classic case of the united states shooting itself in its foot because what these companies did was to hire other nationalities for the jobs abroad and the net result was a loss of american jobs. so. 2 years ago. we reversed that. as did the house. and we changed section 911 to provide that the first $80.000 of earned income abroad was taxexempt. and that proceeded upward in gradual steps to a total of $95.000. there are some provisions dealing with housing as well. which i will set aside. since they are  covered in the amendment sponsored by the senator from missouri. the result of that change in section 911 is that there has been an increased employment of americans abroad and our large american engineering cornpanies longer are hiring britons or canadians or the swiss or west germans or whatever it might be. they are returning to the custom of hiring americans. we have had testimony to that effect. and so the letters have substantiated this as well. . unfortunately. in the finance committee in an effort to include more income as preferred income. as the senator from missouri has explained. section 911 earnings were included but when all was said and done. it did  cover a host of other preferred income. it ended up solely with the 911 provisions. so the senator from missouri has moved the 911 participants from the preferred income section where they had to pay a mintmum tax. i think this is a good measure. i point out to those who might have some questions about all of this that we have frozen the 911 earned income at $80.000. it will  move upward in the steps as originally enacted in the legislation we passed in 1981. there it would have moved up by steps from $80.000 to $85.000 to $90.000 and finally going to $95.000 exempt earned income. this freezes it at $80.000. we have done that in this bill that is before us today. so the amendment of the senator from missouri is a good one. it means greater employment opportunities for americans. the other side of the coin is that if we did  pass it. we will  get added income and americans abroad will just be replaced by foreign nationals. so it is my hope that the senate will approve this measure.
. in the final analysis. what we are talking about is  what the aarp wants.  who has received a letter from whom.  what the editorials say in this paper or that paper. what we are talking about. simply. is a matter of equity and fairness. that is what we are talking about. how can anyone suggest that a person with $100.000 of taxfree income and $8.000 of social security should get tax on his social security while the fellow who has a modest pension from the uaw or from ford. and some rents coming in. gets hit by the tax. if someone wants to go home to his or her state and say that is fair. i should like to see them do it.
that is exactly right. what we did was to say that as to those people in lower incomes we were  going to tax them on half of their social security. someone whose only income is $8.000 a year from social security will  be taxed. but we are saying that if you move up you cross a certain income threshold. which i have stated is roughly $25.000. then you start phasing in and up to half of ones social security becomes taxable.
the senator has put his finger right on it. and let me just take the illustration of the senator from missouri a step further. let us say for the purpose of the argument that $10.000 is the cutoff. or let us take $6.000 as the cutoff for afdc. a person goes in and says. "i have $7.000 of dividend income. do i qualify." and the answer would be "" the answer would be exactly the same if he was just over the mark with taxexempt income. but the argument that i k we are going to be presented with here is that for some reason taxexempt income should be treated differently because the person has made a sacrifice through investing his funds into taxexempt income. thus he has accepted a lower return and in this great effort of sacrifice to improve the infrastructure of various cities and towns throughout the nation by buying these municipal bonds for some reason should  have that taxfree income counted as the basis for the taxation of social security. it is the most convoluted argument i have heard.
as a cosponsor of the cohenlevin amendment. i want to commend the chairman of the finance committee. mr. dole. and the sponsors of the amendment for arriving at a compromise. i look forward to immediate action and toward resolving the problem which resulted from the 1980 social security disability amendments. since 1980. a host of disabled workers have been deprived of their muchneeded benefits. they have suffered undue hardships as their cases have been reviewed by the social security administration. and they have been terminated from the program only to be reinstated at a later time. i am confident that the debate here today will result in relief for the many disabled workers who depend upon the social security disability insurance program for their livelihood.
why is this group so special that they come around and bitterly complain and are unable to raise the money they were meant to have raised. and they can como in and get $250.000. as i say. let them have that. we will  complain. but then they get what. in effect. is an entitlement program in perpetuitynamely. the income from $5 million. or $500.000. forever. why is that right.
. i am opposed to this amendment. the provisions dealing with the davisbacon act as reported from the armed services committee are reasonable. and in my opinion necessary in these times of fiscal austerity and of emphasis on opportunity for small business. we have spent the better part of the last 5 months beating up on the defense budget. labor interests have been major participants in the debate supporting drastic cuts in the defense budget. these reforms are right up that alley. to be sure. there is disagreement as to how much they will save. but the bottom line is that these reforms will reduce costs. what is wrong with encouraging maximum competition in bidding for defense projects. it is contrary to the best ecoic policy to narrow the scope of competition. geographic or otherwise. the federal government should be combating this type of protectionism.  promoting it. the reforms included in this legislation will open up the defense industry to small businesses. in recent years. i am convinced. the act has worked to the detriment of small businesses. the act gives unfair advantage to large union employers over small union employers in bidding for government contracts. it tends to discourage the small contractors who have  mally paid union wages and all of the restrictions that come with the davisbacon regulations including the onerous reporting requirements. the department of labor regulations  require that federal contractors and subcontractors submit a weekly copy of their payrolls. listing the name and address of each laborer and mechanic and his or her classification. rate of pay. daily and weekly hours worked. deductions made and actual wages paid. they also require the payroll be accompanied by a statement indicating that the payroll is correct and complete. that the wage rates are  less than those determined by the secretary. and that the classifications for each laborer and mechanic conform to the work done. it is  hard to imagine that requirements like these are egh of a road block to small businesses to prevent them from bidding on.government contracts which require compliance with davisbacon regulations. the act might also adversely affect the entry of miity groups into the construction industry. these groups have fewer opportunities because frequently they find it easier to obtain employment in the union sector of the industry. the sector which the act places at a disadvantage in bidding for government contracts. while miity groups are special targets for jobs under federal public works programs. such programs are frustrated to some extent by the act.. as outlined previously miity groups are hurt in aher way as well. they often enter construction work informally as helpers or trainees. because the job structurb in the acts wage determinations tends to follow union occupational classifications and seldom includes separate categories for helper or informal trainees. employers under government contract must pay these individuals at the higher wage rates for skilled laborers or  hire them at all which is the more likely result. the provision raising the threshold to $1 million would exempt 95 percent of all dod contracts. however. it would only affect 40 percent of the total dollars expended for dod contracts. in other words the very large contracts will still be subject to the requirements of the act. in short. the provisions included in this legislation are small but needed -changes in existing law. these reforms are a step forward in encouraging competition. opening up federal contracts to. small businesses and reducing to some extent the costs of defense.
let me finish. what you are dealing with is you have a person who has this arrangement where his money can be withdrawn at any time. under the heinz language in the bill. that money is tax free. it is a wonderful situation. there is question about it. as the senator from pennsylvania [mr. heinz} ks. i proposed in the committee that everybody over 65 have this arrangement and the senator voted against it. i could never understand how he favors this. the senator was opposed to an arrangement that everybody gets this advantage. i do  k what was motivating him. but he said it is fine that if you are in one of these home care facilities with the 18hole golf course and your money is there. and the money is used to care for your costsi suppose greens fees. it takes care of everythingthat is fine. but the poor widow with arthritis who is living in a little cottage somewhere solely on the income from some deposit that she has made. barely able to hobble around. that income is taxable. and the senator says. "right. that is a good arrangement." and we had a vote on it and he voted against it.  we are talking equity here.
. the amendment authorizes the assistant secretary of labor for veterans employment and training to undertake an evaluation of the feasibility and advisability of transferring portions of the veterans job training act of 1983 into title ivc of the job training partnership act. finally. the amendment would name the phoenix. az veterans administration medical center for a former member of this body. and an esteemed advocate for our nations veterans. carl t. hayden. the basic purpose of this amendment is to permit 1 additional year of training for those qualified veterans of the korean conflict and vietnam era who were  able to obtain certification prior to closure of the recruitment period on february 28. 1985. and to find a more appropriate mechanism to address the potential longterm unemployment problems of those classes of veterans for whom the evjta was intended. the senator from alaska states that because he believes this veterans job training act should be extended a year. he has also supported. and recommended. an additional appropria tion of $55 million. although the appropriation measure passed by the congress does  include additional funds for the emergency veterans job training act. senator murkowski is joined by senator cranston and senator deconcini in recommending that such funds be appropriated. senator murkowski. senator cranston. and senator deconcini plan to send a letter to the chairman and ranking miity members of the appropriations committee and the hud/independent agencies subcommittee recommending that $55 million be added to the continuing resolution in committee markup. this amount would be sufficient to ensure that eligible veterans would have a final opportunity to benefit from this successful employment program.
. i ask unanimous consent that the committee on governmental affairs be authorized to meet during the session of the senate on wednesday. december 4. to hold a hearing to consider the ination of jerry calhoun. to be a member of the federal labor relations authority.
. i want to thank the distinguished majority leader. it is my distinct pleasure to introduce to the senate mr. neil kink. leader of the british labor party. and accompanying him is mr. kevin barron. a member of parliament. i hope everyone will join me in welcoming these distinguished visitors. i would like to also say that all senatorsi k senators have duties and are scatteringare invited to the republican leaders office for a cup of tea and an opportunity to say hello. that is in the republican leaders office in room s230 down the hall where senators may have a cup of tea and meet our distinguished guests.
. i urge each of my distinguished colleagues to join me in this commitment to respond to the dilemma that time magazine called. "the most wrenching personal problem facing millions of american families." the time for better child care has come.
. the evidence is irrefutable that buying a house is  what it used to be. more and more families need some kind of assistance in order to get over the hurdle of buying the first home. a few statistics from my state will illustrate what i mean. in rhode island. it takes an income of $43.000 to buy the median priced homean income which only 23 percent of all rhode islanders have. two out of three rhode island families could  afford to buy their own homes  if they were in the market for the first time. buying a house these days is like trying to leap onto a fastmoving escalator. you k youll be in good shape once you get on. but the first step is 5 feet high. in these extraordinarily difficult times. i think it appropriate that we use an instrument like homebuyers savings accounts to give firsttime homebuyers a boost over this. the first and biggest hurdle to homeownership. i ask unanimous consent that a copy of the bill be printed in the record at this point. and i urge my colleagues to give it their support.
in the senate bill approved last summer. ice was  required where an employer was selling a business and the buyer offered to hire "substantially all" of the employees. or where an employer was relocating a facility "within a reasonable commuting distance" and offered to transfer "substantially all" of the employees. at that time. i expressed concern about the vagueness of the term "substantially all" as it applies in these two instances. has anything been done in the new version to address this problem.
i thank the senator for these clarifications. i believe the important steps taken by the conferees make the plantclosing requirement more workable. and minimize the prospects for burdensome litigation. with these changes in mind. i am  prepared to support enactment of the legislation. . it is sound public policy to provide for the lifeblood of society. its labor force. in times of need. when a business is forced to shutdown. or retrench in the face of changing ecoic conditions.  only do workers lose their jobs. their security. and their incomes. but whole communities are shaken. the shock waves that follow a plant closing. or a mass layoff. can permeate into every level of a community. causing social and financial setback. the larger and more sudden the closing or layoff. the greater the impact. the purpose of this plant closing measure we have before us today is to lessen this impact. to soften the blow of a plant closing or layoff. this plant closing ification measure would require. where realistically possible. a company to ify its employees of a closing or mass layoff at least 60 days before the event takes place. these 60 days would be used by the worker and the community to prepare for the crisis. to respond to the need for job placement. retraining. education. financial assistanceall the demands that arise in these situations. and. hopefully. in some instances. this 60days ice will enable the community to respond in some way that forestalls the closing. ification means communities can band together and confront a problem with constructive. well thoughtout solutions.  panic.
 let us take a situation. say. where one of our polaris and poseidon submarines is danaged at sea. comes into holy loch. scotland. they need some work quickly. they have to hire a consultant. and outside contractor of some type to help them. what happens then. does the consultant first have to register and file. are there procedures for emergency repairs and responses.
s proposal. but raising the minimum wage is certainly  a panacea. it may  help the poor as much as other policies we could implement. other programs we could fund. raising the minimum wage by an extra 30 cents an hour may help us feel better. but it does  help the poor move forward. in short. raising the minimum wage by an extra 30 cents an hour may be better than hing. but better than hing is  good egh.
the attorney general. i think we all k that when everybody is in charge. ody is in charge. this group is supervising literally billions and billions of dollars. the amount of money that this group is going to have under them boggles the mind. . they are going to hire an executive director. am i  correct. they do the hiring of him.
. i am supporting senator armstrongs amendment to increase the social security earnings limitation by $3.000 in 1990. 1991. and 1992. this amendment is an important step toward enabling senior citizens to work. either out of necessity or by choice. i joined senator armstrong in a successful effort during consideration of the minimum wage legislation to raise the earnings limitation to about $10.000. i believe we need the talents of our seniors in the work force. senate approval of the amendment affirmed our belief that senior citizens should  be discouraged from using their skills and expertise to supplement their income. yet. what we did last month is  egh. the amendment we are offering today is an interim step to bring the limitation closer to the level of average wage earningsabout $18.000. our proposal increases the social security earnings test to $18.000 over a 3year period. our amendment would be paid for by a sale of assets in 1990. i believe that these offsets are acceptable. though  ideal. in order to achieve our immediate goal. increasing the earnings limitation for 1990 and beyond is critical and will require hard work on the part of the finance committee. i intend to work with the senator from colorado to find a reasonable way to finance raising the limitation. i urge my colleagues to join us in support of this critical amendment.
. first i want to say the amendment of the senator from alaska makes a lot of sense. i do  k who can argue with it. i am surprised to hear he has lived. as he said. through two disasters. i did  k about the flood. so several disasters were in his state. he ks what he is talking about. i have discussed this with him. i wished to have inserted in there the word "qualified" and his response was that indeed the people would be qualified. all these disasters do  involve washing oil off rocks. they involve. as. i presume. in the earthquake disaster of several years ago. construction of rebuilding of harbors. streets. infrastructure. and i can only assume that those who are going to be hired with preference under this. to the extent he says feasible and practicable. also would be to hire those private persons residing and doing business primarily in the area of those qualified private persons. ody can argue with that.
s influence is going to be exerted. as we go along there may be other features about which he wishes to veto the bill. we do  k. we will take that when the time comes. but in the meanwhile. i think it is important we fund the legislation and get on with providing money for a child care bill. it happens to be this one. i think this is a good one. and i think we ought to proceed in the manner the committee has recommended.
. what this amendment does is it asks that we in this body act as military strategists. that is something we all ought to do. i am  sure we are qualified along those lines. indeed. it seems to me that it is the very type of action that we should avoid on this floor. perhaps we believe that the number of troops in korea should be reduced. but that is  our proper role. it seems to me our role is  to take charge of every deployment of the united states forces throughout the world to say you are tu have 80.000 in this place. so many in korea. so many in the philippines. so many in okinawa. and so many in japan. that is  the duty of the senate. what we should do. it seems to me. is to tell the armed services that this is the number of total troops you can have. then we expect those who are skilled in these matters to determine where in the world they are to be deployed. and where they can be most effectively used. perhaps the decision will be in south korea. perhaps it will be in western europe. but let us leave those type of decisions to those who we hire to do the job. namely. the military chiefs of the united states. i think this amendment. with criticism of those who honestly put it forward. to me is a meddler. and meddling in the deployment of the forces of the united states throughout the world. i think it is an unfortunate amendment. i hope it will be defeated. i thank the chair.
. these amendments give me some problems. it may be that we can work them .out or discuss them through. but let me discuss some of them. first of all. let us start with the amendment dealing with the center for research on environmental lung disease. i would like to ask a couple of questions. first. of course. this falls -under the labor and human resources commit:tee since it deals with the.secretary of the department of health and human services. so that is  an area over which this committee handling this legislation has jurisdiction. but i would like to ask either senator from colorado. what is the current situation. in other words. the senators indicated there currently is one testing center for highaltitude condi tions. and as i understand it is in denver or thereabouts. or close thereto.
that is right. as i mentioned when i opened my remarks. this does  fall under the jurisdiction of the particular committee which is managing this legislation. have either of the distinguished senators had any conversations with those from the labor and human resources committee regarding this amendment.
. i think the amendment is a good one. unfortunately. we have  yet been able to reach the distinguished counterpart of the senator from massachusetts on the labor and humane resources committee. the junior senator from utah. i am sure he has objection. but in courtesy to him we would like to let him k. what i would suggest. if it would be acceptable to the senator from massachusetts--
if you accept the senators premise that everybody in the united states who is  working at the prevailing wage. or the socalled prevailing wage as defined by davisbacon. is doing shoddy workmanship. every one of us who builds a house. for example. or has a house built for us. is  receiving a quality house. if you accept the senators thesis that that is all shoddy workmanship. all done by flybynight contractors. then why is he supporting a law whch in itself allows 11 or fewer units to be built .without the davisbacon requirements. this is my question. are we wandering into a situation here where we are supporting shoddy workmanship on these 11 or fewer units.
i see the distinguished chairman of the labor committee here. and in his remarks previously. he indicated that this has  been heard in his committee. and while we are. if i might say. killing a little time. i would be interested in his reaction to having hearings on this proposal within his committee. i wonder how receptive he would be to hearings on this subject sometime in his committee. as has been previously pointed out. this davisbacon comes up with  just housing. it comes up with defense installations.
 and virtually all the nations of the world. who are resolved that saddam hussein must voluntarily leave kuwait by january 15. or be forced out. the world. i believe iraq has swallowed whole a helpless. unharmed neighbor. has swept it off the map and tortured its citizens. saddam hussein. unchecked. threatens to impose a frightening level of control over the worlds ecoyand the worlds stability. just last year the berlin wall came down and we believed -we were on the threshold of a new. more peaceful era. this year. instead. we find ourselves facetoface with a ruthless despot who. if allowed to benefit from his heis acts. along with those who may take courage from his example. will make the world a very treacherous place indeed. it does good for us to make threats or set deadlines. unless our impassioned statements are supported by a capacity and a will to wage war. if necessary. furthermore. should we fail to approve this resolution to back up the united nations. i do  k what nations in the world would ever believe in the constance and reliability of the united states in the future. the new world order. where the great and the small shall be unthreatened. may be elusive. but it is worth striving for.
i see. so that when the reservist is called to active duty. he then ks what his income is going to be. what his new rent is going to be when he entered into a contract. therefore the landlord is perfectly willing to rent to the reservist king that there would  be this opportunity or this possibility of the rent  february 21. 1991 . : .. coi .being paid and. thus. doing a disservice to the reservist.
i may  be able to stand it. february 28. 1.991 february 28. 1.991 listen to this one. there are 12 a committees. of those 12 a committees. 41 percent of the staff is on 3 committees41 percent of the staff is on 3 of those committees: judiciary. 138. government affairs. 124. labor. 124. fiftynine percent of the staff goes to the remaining nine committees. the thing is out of kilter. ody would suggest that the labor committee. the governmental affairs committee. and the judicial committee have that big a load. and so if they want more people. if they want to grow in these other committees that we have mentioned. such as the finance committee. which needs additional people. there is a place to take them. so i hope we would agree to this limitation of the total number of positions. it is  painful. i am  going back to 1970. i am  going back to 1950. i am  even going back to 1989. i am taking 1990. what we have . i am saying that is egh. let us blow the whistle. let us do something about saving money around here. let us set an example right here in the u.s. senate in these committees. 1.203 positions for our committees is hardly a minuscule amount of assistance
. i intend to vote against this amendment to strike language from the dire emergency supplemental legislation. specifically. the amendment offered by my distinguished colleague from oklahoma would permit the department of labor to begin implementing its final regulatory changes regarding the worker category kn as helpers. for more than a decade i have watched and participated in debates regarding the merits of the davisbacon act. it is clear to me that for this reform to be successful the senate labor committee must put politics aside and take a long. hard look at the inflationary effects of the davisbacon act. last summer. senator metzembaum and senator kennedy joined me in support of an amendment to the national affordable housing act directing the general accounting office to put together a study on the strengths and weaknesses of the davisbacon act. regrettably. that provision was dropped during the conference committee with the house of representatives. congress should reexamine the davisbacon act. to what extent does it. prevent many small and miityowned businesses from bidding on federally funded construction projects. to what degree does it distort the prevaling wage scale in part of the country. does the act artificially drive up the cost of building and construction for the federal government. these are a few questions that must be definitively and authoritatively answered by anindependent. partisan. group before we can agree on the need for davisbacon reform. i- urge the labor committee to make such an effort a priority for this congress.
. i am pleased to join senator danforth and five of my colleagues in reintroducing our civil rights legislation. we have come a long way since june 4. the day we introduced the first set of bills. after weeks of discussions. we revised those measures to address concerns expressed by the administration. on june 27. we introduced the revised versions of the bills. yet despite our revisions. disagreement remains centered on one major point: that of business necessitythe justification given by an employer for the use of a particular hiring practice. if the definition is too strict. many warn that employers will forget about trying to defend their practices and simply hire by quota. if it is too weak. others argue that employers will use the flimsiest of excuses to keep whole classes of persons out of their workplace. this is the crux of the debate. as small or as technical as it may seem. the business necessity issue has been by far the stickiest wicket in this whole 2year debate. my colleagues and i  have spent months trying to find common ground. to find the correct balance. on this business necessity provision. in the revised bills we introduced at the end of june. we came up with language that we think embodies the meaning of business necessity as used in the landmark 1971 griggs case. but it became clear that our language would  bridge our differences with the administration. it didnt do the trick. today. we think we have language that will do the trick. throughout this debate there has been much mention of the newly enacted and highly popular americans with disabilities act: how comprehensive it is and yet how fair. how it doesnt promote hiring by quota. and how it should be a model for future civil rights legislation. so we looked at the ada. and we realized that it spells out how to justify neutral employment practices that have a disparate impact on persons with disabilitiesin other words. the business necessity issue. we have done the obvious: we have taken business necessity language from the ada and adopted it in our bill. i think we are close . i think the bill that we are introducing today is september 24. 1.991 truly a fair compromise. we have made change after change and i think we are  down to bare bones. if any bill is right tn the middle. this is it. in preparation for upcoming senate consideration. the legislation is crafted as one bill rather than three. i think we can pass this bill. and pass it quickly. civil rights and civil rights legislation have changed since 1964. blatant discrimination still exists. but in many ways. discrimination  is more subtle. and more difficult to define. compared to the legislation of 20 years ago. this civil rights bill may seem to some to be an exercise in semantics. but that is  the case. these sosexy terms. such as business necessity and particularity. over which there has been heated debate involve the tools used to combat discriminationsubtle or otherwisein todays world. and that is very important to all americans. it is time to let cooler heads prevail. lets pass this legislation.*
. that a lot of people in this chamber will give some consideration to doing something about creating jobs. i am all for the unemployment compensation extension. it adds 20 additional weeks in my state. so i am for it. but i would like to do something about the people who lost their jobs. seeing that they can get them back and go back to work building boats once again.
oh. it does. so there- . i (b) conformiamendments..ohos ioe s inen ar. modiied amnd ent . 1 (1) section 408(a)(1) is amended by striking fore an individual whose income was in send a modified amendment to the e. excess of $2.000 on behalf of any individexcess of whatever these limits are. 120 desk with respect to the underlying ual" and inserting "on behalf of any individdid you say. per family. amendment on behalf- of myself and ual in excess of the amount in effect for such
. i would like to ask the distinguished senator from missouri. who are the very. very wise people who are going to make these venture capital investments that we are fortunate egh to have in the employ of the u.s. government. how is this going to work. i am curious. they must be very. very bright people who are going to do this. by the way. how do they make their decisions. who gets the money.
. today our distinguished colleague. the senator from kansas. . introduced the job training consolidation act of 1994. as a ranking republican on the labor and human resources committee. senator kassebaum has crafted what. in my judgment. is a very thoughtful bill. what it does is consolidates the confusing array of federal job training programs. some 154 separate programs in total. importantly. the legislation provides immediate flexibility to states and localities to use federal job training funds totaling some $25 billion a year. this is astonishing the amount of money we are putting into these job training programs. $25 billion a year. what this bill does is it provides. as i say. the immediate flexibility to states and localities to use these job training funds on programs and priorities of the design of the states and localities. it also provides for the creation of a national commission with a strong input from the private sectori want to stress that a strong input from the private sectorto develop a single coordinated system of employment and training. the legislation would consolidate about 60 programs. scattered across a dozen statutes. without requiring any additional spending. any additional new taxes. or any additional new bureaucracy. while much of the country has begun to enjoy the fruits of a growing ecoy. my own state of rhode island continues to suffer the effects of a nagging recession. in january. 10.5 percent of rhode islands labor force. seasonally adjusted. was out of work. by contrast. the state experienced a 3percent unemployment rate for all of 1988. while the most recent jump in rhode islands unemployment is partly the result of new federal methods for counting joblessness. much of our problem is due to longer term ecoic dislocation in defense and other manufacturing sectors. many of the jobs rhode islanders have lost during this downturn are  coming back. . more than ever. we need a coherent. cost effective system for retraining dislocated workers. this bill takes an important step in that direction. a recent report by the general accounting office (gao] found that american taxpayers do  get fair value for the $25 billion we expend annually on job training. the gao report audited 62 training programs and discovered that less than half ever bothered to find out whether or  participants found jobs. we have very little data on the effectiveness of federal job training programs. and even less accountability. in a period of scarce budgetary resources and growing demands for federal assistance. this situation is intolerable. let me turn to the administrations efforts in this area for a moment. i comment the secretary of labor. robert reich. for the comprehensive legislation he has developed to address the problem of structural unemployment. the administrations reemployment act is a very thoughtful proposal that correctly seeks to transform our present federalstate unemployment insurance program into a reemployment system. however. upon review. i have a number of concerns about the proposal. including the financing. the broad reliance on untested retraining program. and the scope of the consolidation effort. i also have some reservations about the bills impact on the existing unemployment insurance system. state officials in rhode island have also reviewed the proposal. and share many of these concerns. particularly with respect to the fiscal implications. and the effects on the present employment and training system in our state. despite these concerns. i stand ready as a member of the finance committee to work on a bipartisan basis with the administration. and with my senate colleagues to enact legislation this year to address the problem of long term structural unemployment. it is absolutely imperative that we develop a comprehensive national strategy as soon as possible to give dislocated workers the training. employment assistance. andother resources they need to secure their futures. many citizens in my state of rhode island have exhausted their regular unemployment benefits. and do  have access to the training and employment services they need to find the high quality jobs they deserve. clearly. our present unemployment insurance system falls short of addressing the problems of dislocated workers. both the administration and kassebaum bills offer us much hope for meaningful action to address this serious problem this year. and i intend to work in earnest toward that end. by mr. kohl:
madam president. i agree with the senator from new hampshire. i think the point he made is that in the revolving fund. pretty soon they are entirely state funds. there are federal funds in there. what he is objecting to is that a federal law requiring a higher wage than is the mal wage right in the vicinity must be paid for any work that is done under the revolving fund. i share with him that is  appropriate. i think that the local water company. once they get some funds from the revolving fund. should -be able to put it out to bid and get the lowest bid. but that is  true under the law. under the provision that is  in this bill. i might say that applying davisbacon to this fund is new. it also is true that the state revolving fund itself is new. but applying the davisbacon to the safe drinking water act is a new proposal. it was  in the prior law. so i think the senators point is well made. and i congratulate him for it.
i thank the senator from alaska for informing the senate of the special rural programs for water systems in alaska. the remote maintenance worker program and remote systems monitoring program sound like the right approach to ensuring viable of rural water systems. the committee has considered utilization of such programs. we intended that such programs will .enable small. rural communities like alaska villages to attain viability.
. i want to lend my complete support and encouragement to this effort by senators kennedy and kassebaum to craft bipartisan legislation.to establish a federal job training strategy. the chairman and ranking member of the labor and human resources committee are to be commended for tackling this critical issue. i was an original sponsor of the job training and consolidation act. introduced earlier this year by senator kassebaum. this legislation proposes to create a commission to make recommendations on consolidating all federal job training programs. it would also grant waivers to states and localities to facilitate program coordination at the local levelwhere it belongs. while the legislation is an obvious threat to many federal and state agenciesas well as to a number of congressional committees--jurisdictional gridlock must  frustrate the development of a cohesive national job training system. according to a recent general accounting office [gao) study. there are 154 separate job training programs. administered by 145 different agencies. at an annual cost to taxpayers of $25 billion. in a broad audit. gao concluded few benchmarks exist to determine the efficacy of such programs. while most keep track of the number of trainees they serve.  one maintains job placement data. this lack of accountability is absolutely unacceptable. we can afford to squander scarce federal resources on programs whose success or failure can be measured. in my own state of rhode island. as in many others. the need for effective training programs for dislocated workers and college bound youth is greater than ever. we must ensure that our sizable job training investment is wise. efficacious. and justifiable. senators kennedy and kassebaum have developed a statement of objectives which i believe to be an excellent starting point for the development of a bipartisan bill. it includes the following five premises for a comprehensive job training systemall of which i strongly support: first. it should serve the needs of jobseekers and employersthe two most critical participants in such a system. second. it should be readily accessible and comprehensible to all participants. third. it should be focused on performance and accountabilitywe should k how many job seekers actually get placed as a result of the training they receive. fourth. states and localities should .have primary responsibility for design and implementation of job training systems. fifth. finally. a job training system should be based upon local labor market needs. so that the training is geared to employer needs in a given area. by necessity. this means any such system must have the active involvement of the private sector to be a success. i want to thank senators kennedy and kassebaum for their initiative. and look forward to working with them as they develop legislation to create a national job training system.
. today we are considering the resolution that authorizes the funding levels for senate committees for the next 2 years. i would like to offer hearty congratulations to the chairman and ranking member of the committee on rules and administration for making substantial progress in reducing the growth of senate committees. the resolution before us authorizes $7.6 million less for this year than the 1994 authorization. and that is a step. in the right direction. most of the committee budgets were reduced by 15 percent plus a 2percent cola for salaries. of particular significance are the cutsin the budgets for the three largest committees: the committees on governmental affairs. the judiciary. and labor and human resources. the rules committee should be commended for reducing the budgets of governmental affairs and judiciary by 1.5 percent above the 15percent cut received by other committees. the chairwoman of the labor committee also deserves emous praise for submitting a budget that cuts expenses by a -whopping 25 percent. during the 102d and 103d congresses i offered amendments to reduce overstaffing on these three committees. in 1991. i proposed capping the number of available committee staff positions at 1990 levels. the amendment i proposed in the 103d congress would have used the finance committee. with its substantial workload. as a benchmark. each -committees funding level for 1993 would have been the lesser of either 95 percent of the 1992 funding level. or 95 percent of the finance committees funding levelexcept for the appropriations committee. which would be funded at 95 percent of its 1992 level. since the beginning of the committee system as we k it today. we have seen a rapid growth in the size of committee staffs. some of that growth is understandable. but some is . in 1950. there were 300 committee staff positions. by 1970. that number had more than doubled to 635. it had nearly doubled again to 1.212 by 1990. in 1992. there were 1.257 committee staff positions. in 1993 some progress was made and the number of committee staff positions for which funding was made available went down to 1.196. nevertheless. the number of staff positions for the three big committees remained at well over 100 for eachgovernmental affairs at 120. judiciary at 128. and labor at 127. this year. there are 947 authorized staff positions. and only one committee has more than i0 authorized positions. i am very pleased to support this resolution.
s executive order. in our judgment. for those of us who oppose the ban on striker replacements. is a jobkilling one which. if left to stand. would harm our ecoy. would increase labor strife. would reduce productivity. and weaken the competitiveness of u.s. industry. thus. i will vote for the kassebaum amendment to prohibit its implementation. and i urge my colleagues to support the senator from kansas likewise. i thank the chair.
. i ask unanimous consent that the subcommittee on disability policy of the committee on labor and human resources be authorized to meet for a hearing on the individuals with disabilities education act. during the session of the senate on thursday. may 11. 1995. at 10 a.m.
. i ask unanimous consent that the subcommittee on disability policy of the committee on labor and human resources be authorized to meet for a hearing on the individuals with disabilities education act. during the session of the senate on tuesday. may 16. 1995 at 9:30 a.m.
. i ask unanimous consent that the subcommittee on education. arts andhuinanities of the committee on labor and human resources be authorized to meet for a hearing on the privatization of sallie mae and connie lee. during the session of the senate on tuesday. june 20. 1995 at 9:30 a.m.
the senators point is a good one. if we are trying to encourage the churches to come into this. use their facilities which they have available for day care and other forms of assistance. i think the senators amendment makes a lot of sense.
if i might also ask the majority leader a question. the leadership amendment and the finance committee proposal are both silent about the purpose of childrens ssi. however. unlike the house proposal. both retain the cash benefit nature of the program. this is a concept that senator conrad and i thought was extremely important when we introduced the childhood ssi eligibility reform act. and i am pleased that the majority leaders proposal retains flexibility within the ssi program by retaining the cash nature of the program. it is important .for the ssi program to reflect the impact a disability has on families faced with a variety of circumstances. ssi often provides important assistance to families by replacing a portion of the income that is lost when a parent must care for a disabled child. the flexible nature of ssi is indispensable for many parents who are rendered unable to work because they must stay at home to provide care and supervision to their children with disabilities. does the majority leader share our assessment.
i agree with the senator from massachusetts that we want to look at these. we want to be careful we are  giving tax breaks to the very wealthy when we are trying to balance this budget. one of the suggestions that has come up here as i understand is that we really concentrate more on rewarding those who save. how can we do it. should the interest on savings accounts be taxexempt. or reinstate the iras for those who previously have been eclipsed because they had pension plans of some kind. all of those i think are fruitful ideas. all i am saying is. i think we have the basis here for a resolution to this problem. again. it will require all of us to back off from entrenched positions. i hope that the democrats would agree to the 7year time schedule. i think that is a reasonable request. if we can do this by the year 2002. then we have real problems in this country. we have war. we are in peacetime. the country is relatively prosperous. clearly. we ought to be able to pay our bills and have outgo match income in the year 2002.
i would ask the senator from arkansas aher question. it seems to me that this is an odd provision. in that it is referred to the judiciary committee. yet the jurisdiction of the food and drug administration is in the labor committee.
if you want time. you can have time after i finish. we have a letter from mickey kantor. u.s. trade representative. the extension of the section 1534(c)-that is what we are doing here to pharmaceutical property productswould  undermine ongoing u.s. efforts to seek high levels of intellectual property protection around the world. so there is problem here with patents. that does  have anything to do with it. the fact of the matter is that this reference. if indeed it should be madei do  think it shouldbut if it should. it should go to one of two places: the finance committee. which deals with trade. or the labor .committee. which deals with fda. i would be far happier to see it go there than to the place suggested.
. what we are doing this aftern is trying to move forward to get approval of a piece of legislation. s. 295. called the team actteam. team act. . what the team act says is that it is perfectly permissible for an employer to sit down with a group of his employees and say. what do you think is the best way to make this place more efficient. or how *can we make this place safer. or what can we do to increase our productivity. . apparentlyand i must say i was stunned to learn thisthat is illegal. you can do that. . of course. it is happening across the country. but if it is discovered it is illegal. you can be hauled up before the national labor relations board. there is something about this that has an alice in wonderland complex to it. what is going on in the united states of america when an employer can say to a group of workers out there. the fellow down the road is producing our product at a lower price and faster than we are. what can we do to improve our productivity. and so they give him some suggestions. but it turns out that is against the law. it is against the national labor relations act which was passed in 1935. so we are held up. ensnarled in an act that was passed 61 years ago. so what this act. introduced by the senator from kansas . reported out of the committee. says is that there are certain things you can do.  you can do collective bargaining with a group of employees like that. that is separate. but certainly you can sit down and decide how you are going to increase productivity or how you are going to make the place safer or what can we do to make it more attractive to get other workers to come and join with us in this effort. that is what this is all about. the mere idea that we need a law to do this seems to me--i must say i never dreamed this would be required. frankly. when they started talking about the team act. i did  k what it was and had to have somebody spell it out. so that is why we are here today. this is vigorously resisted by the unions. and it is vigorously resisted by the administration. the administration has gone so far as to say if this law is passed. this team act. it will be vetoed. i must say i think that is unwarranted and extremely shortsighted. there are two factors. it seems to me. that make it very important we pass this legislation. firstand this is secret to anybody who is watching this or in the galleries or anywhereamerican industry is in the fight of its life against competition. we  have a global ecoy. question about it. something made in china or the philippines or in the caribbean nations comes into the united states and is sold is competition. so we in this country have seen the loss of tens of thousands of highpaying american jobs. i have seen this regrettably in my state to a considerable degree. so what this intense competition abroad has required is for american industry to produce better products at a lower price. increase productivity and be more efficient in every fashion. so this painful but necessary reexamination has required more intensive labor and management cooperation than in the past. the second thing that has taken placethe first is the global competition. we have to compete or our jobs will  surviveour laws have  kept pace and in many ways impede our progress toward reaching this global competitiveness. labor law must change just like manufacturing processes must change or cooperation has to be greater. and that is true of labor laws likewise. labor laws have to reflect the need for cooperation and teamwork that is critical for our survival. the national labor relations act. as i previously mentioned. was enacted in 1935 and has changed very little in those ensuing 61 years. unfortunately. that law is rooted in adversarialwhen that law was passed in 1933. it was there to take care of a situation. at that time. there was great turbulence in our industries. there was an adversarial situation between labor and management. indeed. workers were prohibited from organizing in many states. they were prohibited from going on strike. all of that changed in the early 1930s with the national labor relations act and other laws such as that. the act. as i say. has  been adequately changed in the 61 years that have passed. and it does  recognize that  there is a great deal of cooperation that is needed in our factories and workplaces. so efforts to increase workplace cooperation were substantially hindered in 1992 by a decision called the electromation case. that was a national labor relations board case some 4 years ago. in that case. the national labor relations board said that employers and employee committees which talk about attendance--people are  getting to work on time. what is going on around here. what can we do to increase the attendance. we have a lot of people who are  showing up. we have some people who work a 4day week when they are meant to be here 5 days. what can we do about it. what can we do about moking policies. what do you want. do you want a separate place to smoke. do you want smoking. what do you want. it was decided you can do that. you can even talk to your employees about what is the best smoking policy or moking policy. this act we are talking about today. called the team act. would simply conform labor law with what is already happening. as i say. all across. our country there are. in fact. these committees. and our managers and our owners of these companies do  realize it is against the law. indeed. there are some 30.000 of these labor/management committees across the country. but if any one. of them is discovered. it could well be that it is in violation of the national labor relations act and could be punished with fines of a very severe nature. it is said that this bill is a threat to labor unions. i must say. i do  understand the rationale for that argument. this bill specifically states in its language that the committees that are entitled to be formed under this act can negotiate. can amend existing collective bargaining agreements. all they can do is talk about better productivity. talk about greater efficiency and matters of that nature. as has been mentioned previously. the hitch is that the law says employers can enter into the formation of any organization that deals with these problems that i have mentioned: attendance. productivity. efficiency. this. as i further mentioned. has received a very broad interpretation from the national labor relations board. so it makes illegal most of those employeeinvolvement committees that i previously dealt with and mentioned. what we seek in this act is to have some clear definition of what we might call a safe harbor. what is a safe harbor. a safe harbor is an area where the employer ks it is safe for him to enter into discussions with employees without running afoul of the law. that is what this is all about. the team act is this safe harbor. it would do hing to undermine union organizing or collective bargaining. it would recognize and authorize a simple fact of life: employers are. indeed. adays looking to their employees more than ever before to help them. the employers. have a better workplace. a smarter workplace. a more efficient workplace. a more successful workplace that. hopefully. will result in more jobs.  only for those employees and their families but others across our nation. this is very simple. it is a good idea that. as i say. i am stunned it is causing this furor. this fuss. because it ought to be adopted. i think. unanimously. democrats and republicans and unions all ought to embrace something that is going to make our country more efficient. i do hope this team act. s. 295. will be adopted. and i thank the chair.
. i ask unanimous consent that the committee on labor and human resources be authorized to meet for a hearing on the ination of david satcher to be surgeon general and assistant secretary of hhs during the session of the senate on wednesday. october 8. 1997. at 10 a.m.
. i ask unanimous consent that the committee on labor and human resources be .authorized tomeet for a .hearing on health care information confidentiality during the session of the senate on thursday. february 26. 1998. at 9:30 a.m.
it is my understanding the distinguished senator from minnesota has an amendment which he wishes to present. what we would like to do. if it is agreeable with him. is he could present his amendment and discuss it but we  proceed to a vote until we have had an opportunity to check with the labor committee. and check some other factors. so he and i could work together on when would be a good time to call it up for a vote.
. is hear from our people on the finance committee. which should be very shortly. and i will then see that the senator from minnesota has every opportunity to bring this to a vote. should he wish to. this aftern. we will work it out. he is  going to be blocked in any fashion. but i would like to hear. and it may well be that we can accept the amendment. and that would save us all some time. we are  just trying to check with the finance committee. it may be well that something from the labor committee is involved likewise. although it seems to me that this is pretty much a finance committee matter. when we get back. after our luncheon recess has concluded. i will speak to the senator from minnesota. and we will then be able to go from there.
. i ask unanimous consent that the committee on labor and human resources. subcommittee on children and families. be authorized to meet for a hearing on after school child care during the session of the senate on thursday. march 5. 10 a.m.
. i ask unanimous consent that the committee on labor and human resources be authorized to meet for a hearing on the ination of david satcher to be surgeon general and assistant secretary of hhs during the session of the senate on wednesday. october 8. 1997. at 10 a.m.
. i ask unanimous consent that the committee on labor and human resources be .authorized tomeet for a .hearing on health care information confidentiality during the session of the senate on thursday. february 26. 1998. at 9:30 a.m.
it is my understanding the distinguished senator from minnesota has an amendment which he wishes to present. what we would like to do. if it is agreeable with him. is he could present his amendment and discuss it but we  proceed to a vote until we have had an opportunity to check with the labor committee. and check some other factors. so he and i could work together on when would be a good time to call it up for a vote.
. is hear from our people on the finance committee. which should be very shortly. and i will then see that the senator from minnesota has every opportunity to bring this to a vote. should he wish to. this aftern. we will work it out. he is  going to be blocked in any fashion. but i would like to hear. and it may well be that we can accept the amendment. and that would save us all some time. we are  just trying to check with the finance committee. it may be well that something from the labor committee is involved likewise. although it seems to me that this is pretty much a finance committee matter. when we get back. after our luncheon recess has concluded. i will speak to the senator from minnesota. and we will then be able to go from there.
. i ask unanimous consent that the committee on labor and human resources. subcommittee on children and families. be authorized to meet for a hearing on after school child care during the session of the senate on thursday. march 5. 10 a.m.
i understand that. the reasons for having voted against the bill. as to the bills content. i do  think have changed. there are weaknesses in it. i do  believe it is as broadbased as it should be. the senate took that action with regard to emergency public service employment. i have my doubts as to whether the money will get through the pipeline in time. so i do  think any of those reasons have changed that much. but there is one thing that has changed and changed dramatically. today. at n time. in the state of connecticut. the latest unemployment figures for the week in july. or this portion of july. were released. and the rate in connecticut  stands at 10.1 percent unemployed. this puts connecticut in third place in the unemployment sweepstakes. behind alaska and washington. as we go down the figures of some of the towns in connecticut. we can lead off with bristol with 24.5 percent unemployed. ansonia with 16.6 unemployed. new britain with 14.8 percent unemployed. certainly i am willing to stand by and listen to the arguments of the ecoists with their ecoic game plan. but i came to the senate primarily to represent reality. reality today is 10.1 percent unemployed in my state of connecticut. 
. i. and i think many of my colleagues. are getting a little bit tired of having deadlines thrown in our faces by both business and laborboth business and laborin the matter of legislation to correct their excesses. several times in such legislation within the last several years. it has been a matter of record that both the house of representatives and the senate participated. at the last moment. in collective bargaining in order to avert certain strikes. i voted for some of that legislation. but i think it was wrong. just as in this particular case i think it is an excess on the part of the lockheed corp. when it drives or attempts to drive the senate to the wall. what makes it all the more galling is that the deadline really was  set by one of our own corporations. the deadline was set by the british government. and i find that intolerable.
i have received letter after letter saying. "please do something to get the ecoy going"-something that has caused me sometimes to go against the administration. but finally we have arrived at an ecoic cure that we can agree on. yes. i have received letters asking me to do something about the 10percent unemployment in my state.
. because the cranston amendment is ostensibly motivated by first amendment fears. we are going to give the senator from th carolina and the senator from california and their colleagues an opportunity to vote on an amendment which though redundant. absolutely protects the press. we will offer an amendment which sets forth clearly that the wageprice freeze will  interfere with rights guaranteed under the first amendment. it will state that the wageprice board shall take action which directly or indirectly is contrary to the first amendment of the u.s. constitution. hing could be simpler or clearer. if the modification is to guarantee freedom of the press. then let us do it. if the motivation is to favor the press at a time of national sacrifice by workers in all other industries. that is aher story. i would  argue with the senator from california or the senator from th carolina on the basis of entertainers. i would like to read what i said last night because it applies to the revised version at this time as well as last night to the original amendment. i stated: i am against this amendment because it plays favorites and is therefore  fair. ody likes freezes or controls. everybody is making sacrifices while they operate. it seems to me that the time of the senate is more excellently spent on making sure that everybody means everybody rather than issuing "freebies" in the name of constitutional or historical precedent. yes. i feel sorry for the working press. the owners. publishers. compositors. pressmen. engravers. and flyboys. but i also feel sorry for the laborers. craftsmen. whitecollar workers. and executives of the other industries in my state. every part of the free enterprise system is in this unfortunately necessary exercise together. and they are coming out together. the news media are  a collection of charitable entities. they are competitive. forprofit corporations owned by shareholders with their stock listed on stock exchanges. then i gave examples. i continue to read from my remarks last night: their survival depends on excellence and creativity. freedom from government control applies to acquisition and dissemination of the news. it was  meant to excuse them from antitrust laws. or criminal laws. or tax laws. health statutes. social security. or labor laws. et cetera. the matter before the senate is such as those. i gave a hypothetical example as to the difference between certain news media employees and other employees of corporations in my state. i then went on to say: i do  k about the rest of my colleagues. but there are egh inequities to explain to the people of my state . without creating more. this amendment just adds confusion to the situation. at least it was intellectually honest last night when it attempted to cover all of the news media. the senator from oregon indicated. and i concur with him. that it has been toned down to pick up a few votes. the field of entertainers is  involved. what is involved is whether we will make exceptions for various people. i stood on the floor with my colleagues and voted against exception after exception. the sooner the nations business is well. the sooner we will get rid of the price freeze. wage and price controls are  a natural situation for the united states. the sooner that we get done with them. the better. i think what is at issue here today is. first. the intellectual honesty of what is being proposed. and. more importantly. whether it plays a fair role visavis other persons in the country that are being asked to make sacrifices at this time. i concur again with the senator from oregon that when we ask for definitions of entertainment and windfall profits. we will have the courts backloggedand the senators k it as attorneyswith cases demanding definitions of those words. they are impossible of immediate definition. certainly hing is written into the proposal of the senator from california as to what he means by entertainers.
in response to the senator from california i wish to state that is why we have the first amendment. the pay board is  out from under the first amendment. if it took such action that. in effect. closed down an element of the press. i am sure they would be brought to account under the first amendment. that great protector of press freedoms does  disappear from view with the advent of wage price controls.. it is very clear what the intent of the cranston amendment is and i hope we do  use the guise of the first amendment to push it through the senate thus favoring one aspect of our ecoy over aher.
i thank the senator. . i do  think anybody in the united states is jumping up and down and cheering about wage and price controls. that is exactly the point we are trying to make to the senator from california. worker or executive is happy with wage and price controls but. they say. "we are accepting them and we are going to live with them." because there is a job to be done. specifically. to stop inflation and to get the country back on a sound ecoic basis. every single exception we make makes one more day when we have to live with this nightmare. so the unfairness of the situation does  apply only to those in the press. but to all those who are under wage and price controls and are yearning for the day when they can come out from under them. this message should come out loud and clear. when you make exceptions for this one and that one. we will be living with these controls year after year. the workers throughout my state are making sacrifices for the nation.  for others who are exempt from the controls.
. all of us will have to go out and earn the respect of the american people and  just get money with which to wage our campaigns. government should  subsidize political mediocrity. it is like anything else where subsidy is involved. it can stand on its own two feet. i do  want our election process subsidized. i fully expect to be here in 3 to 4 months time.  with some slipshod. quickly put together solution. but rather with an intelligent. wellthoughtout plan to reform our political process.
i have other elements. in a ruf primary the state central committee has the right to spend. those are my figures. and i think they are correct. based on consultation with various staff members. let me get back for a minute to the statement made by the senator from iowa. who raised a valid point that is of concern to me. there is doubt that the factor of incumbency is important. it is an important matter. first of all. the statement was made that the candidate could  become kn in 30 days or 60 days. it is true that the political system as we k it. could destroy our system as we k it. the people would  listen to dick clark. for example. until he got within 30 or 60 days of the election. then they would begin to pay attention. it is different when i campaign. i have but a handful of people listening at the beginning. but it is just before the election that large numbers start to listen. we are asking for a major shift among the people themselves. in the last 30 or 60 days. after we have campaigned for a year and a half. do they begin to take ice. maybe the campaigns of some senators will be a little better than mine. but the question is whether the people are going to pay attention in the last 30 or 60 days. or whether there will be a gradual buildup in that course of time. i think that proves the point i am trying to make. it is  until a period of 60 days before the general election that people begin to take ice. the distinguished senator from iowa said that. just before he left the chamber. let us consider how lastminute occurrences could still be handled. it is possible for a candidate. recognizing his expenses. to plan his campaign to prepare for unfair charges which might be brought against him as he goes into the last weeks of his election campaign. i make point about the fact that this legislation would overturn the system as we k it. i am afraid ody listens to us for a whole year. i do  blame them. they figure that maybe 30 or 60 days is egh. so maybe this is an unusual system which makes the time shorter than a year. it relates to what we have got as we go along. it will shorten the campaign to the time from just before labor day. under this system. the focus of the entire nation will be on the federal election. in the final analysis. this system would reduce the amount of campaigning and expense. the senator from new hampshire
i am glad the senator pointed out exceptions on page 86. because it will be my intention to go ahead and try to eliminate them. my friends in the business community are rather unhappy that i support this legislation. and  since i am opposing the distinguished senior senators from new york and connecticut. i k that labor will be unhappy. i have a feeling that if labor is unhappy and business is unhappy. the consumer is being well served
the point i am trying to make is that it would be possible. as a way of arriving at a judgment. for the senate of the united states. employing its constitutional right. to determine its own membership. it would be possible for the senate to employ a method which. in effect. would. in this instance. send the election back to new hampshire.
i only wish to point out that i. at least. make the presumption that a final determination from a state of the union is just that. a final determination. again. i am  disputing our right to take a look at it. but i take it that whatever they do is within a constitutional authority. the final determination of the state of new hampshire seats louis wyman by two votes. that still does  mean we can look at it. we can look at that twovote victory. just as we can look at the victory of every other man elected to the u.s. senate in the elections of 1974. 1 agree. i do  contest the right. but i ask at what point do we intrude and by what method do we then employ in trying to make a determination which is better than that one made by the people themselves.
. i hope my amendment will pass. and that labor will be treated just as business is treated and as. indeed. everyone is treated. in any event. i shall push for the passage of this amendment. i shall oppose every other exemption that is proposed here on the floor of the senate. and then i shall push as hard as i can for the passage of the bill itself. but. as i have stated previously. regardless of the substance of legislation. i implore my colleagues to think about what it is that we can do in our actions to induce the american people to feel once again that indeed we represent all the people. and  just a few.
. i appreciate the very able presentation of the other side of the question by my distinguished colleague from connecticut. i suppose my best answer to his eloquence would be an editorial that appeared in the new york times on march 14. 1975. i intend to read it. it is called consumerism limited. it is as follows: the long fight to establish an independent agency to defend the interests of consumers in proceedings before federal regulatory bodies and courts has moved an important step closer to victory in the senate. the 11to1 vote by which the consumer advocate bill was approved in committee this week measurably reduces the danger that it can be killed by filibuster. the fate that befell it on the senate floor last year. before final adoption. however. the senate will do well to eliminate from the bill a specialinterest exemption that is foreign to the whole concept of independence for the new bureau. inserted under strong pressure from organized labor. this exemption would bar the consumer agency from gathering information or expressing its views in any proceeding involving labor disputes or agreements. the records of the national labor relations board and the courts abound in cases in which unions on their own or in collusion with employers disregard the public interest. pushing up prices or limiting competition. that the proposed agency for consumer advocacy should  have the same freedom to speak for consumers in such situations that it would have in matters affecting business is indefensible on its face. for labor to make this exemption the price of its support for a measure in which wageearners and their families have a primary stake is shortsighted. for legislators to submit to such coercion would be politics at its most cynical. so far as the new york times is concerned. i think it says it all. i think it says it well. and certainly the times could  be accused of representing a probusiness. conservative point of view on most matters. i understand that the nlrb serves business and labor well. indeed. it does provide the arena in which these two entities can vie. there is only one thing missing. there is provision for the viewpoint of the consumer. so i repeat my advocacy of the amendment as to the exemption. as to the specifics. i think the consumer can be definitely affected when it comes to these decisions of the nlrb in the bargaining process. but just as importantlyand the times hits upon it in the last sentence. where they say: for legislators to submit to such coercion would be politics at its most cynical. that issue is very much present with us today as. indeed. it was last week. and if we continue to go ahead and engage in that type of politics then indeed. we  only have the consumer to contend with but we have indeed the entire constituency which begins to wonder about the legislative process in the nations capital: how do you get a bill passed or how do you represent your interest against the particular piece of legislation. what is the dollar figure that is required before you can go ahead and have a hearing or before you can block legislation. how many people do you have to have along with you before you have the power either to introduce legislation or to block it. i did  think that was the basis on which we operated. rather i thought our purpose as leaders was to go into the merits.  to respond to pressures. if this exemption stays in we will have bowed for a second time in 2 legislative days to pressure. i repeat my question: at what point does the bill lose its effectiveness. with the third exemption. with the fourth exemption. with the fifth exemptionat what point. everyone ks as well as i do that even if we only pass two exemptions in this session. there will be other in the sessions to follow. this is separate and distinct from the other problems and criticisms that are leveled against this agencywhich i would like to respond to. for example. i think a valid criticism of business is that it is a duplication in some respects of responsibilities that certain of the regulatory agencies already have on their shoulders. i would agree with that. but i think that it will be possible for us to eliminate that duplication as we view these various agencies in the legislative sessions aheadbut it is a valid criticism. if i appeared before a group of students in a class of logic and they asked me as a senator to explain why broadcasters should be exempt. why labor should be exempt. i have absolutely logic with which to respond to that question and i do  intend to respond to it with any false reasoning. i understand that we are supposed to be adept at the art of compromise. this legislation has been too long in coming and it needs the broadest possible support. i compliment my distinguished colleague and friend from connecticut for sticking with it. which he has. and it has  been easy. he has caught it from all sides. but it should be effective as regards all segments of our society. s. 200 should stand as a credit to thelogic and integrity of the u.s. senate.
. as we draw to the hour of voting. i wish to make a few brief comments in closing on behalf of this amendment. it is an opportunity for the u.s. senate to exercise leadership and to speak out for all the people of this country. i do  believe that labor leadership speaks out for the rank and file of labor on the issue of consumerism. just as. indeed. i do  believe that the chamber of commerce speaks for the rank and file of business on the issue of consumerism. it falls to us. then. as u.s. senators. to make sure that 212 million voices are heard. to make sure that when we pass legislation. it will be legislation for all americans and  just for some americans. the statement has been made that everything has gone well with management and labor under the nlrb. that would certainly seem to be the case. on the other hand. that standard or that evaluation is applied by management and by labor. who is to say that everything has gone well. if indeed. there were aher person applying the criterion. obviously. everything is going to change if there is a consumer advocate. every institution. every agency. every action is going to be subject to his scrutiny. which. in effect. is the consumers point of view. that is all that this legislation does. even those who are opposed to my amendment have repeatedly said that this is  to give the administrator powers which. in and of themselves. would overrule the decisions of other agencies. boards. and individuals. rather. it is to present a point of view. insofar as the substance of this legislation is concerned. this does hing in any way to diminish the effectiveness of the administrator of the agency. rather. it would enhance his effectiveness and thus. also. enhance the consumers point of view.
i would hope for a few minutes anyway that my colleagues on both sides of the aisle would try to stay and listen to the facts of this particular amendment. it is  at all procedural in nature. it goes to a specific event that occurred. one that i think would be condemned by republican and democrat alike. and yet the rules committee saw fit to exclude it from the resolution. very simply. the facts are these: in the city of nashua. n.h.. two absentee ballots were cast by albert j. michaud and his wife bertha. the fact is that when both those individuals were asked whether or  they had cast absentee ballots they replied "" here is what transpired: a worker from democratic headquarters delivered two absentee ballot applications to albert michaud and bertha michaud. albert and bertha filled out these applications. but subsequently did  fill out the ballots which were given to that worker from democratic campaign headquarters when he presented the applications at the town clerks office. they so testified. it is true that we do  k how they voted. but it is also true that the individual who picked up the applications that brought them to the michauds and subsequently picked up the ballots was a worker in democratic headquarters.
the handling of this crisis has been political. this is what draws us into the debate today. basically. what the president of the united states has done is to bring the issue to a head. to give some promise of a solution so that we do  drift for aher 6 months or 2 years. compromise after compromise has been offered to the democratic party. in fairness to the other side. responsible leaders of the democratic party have indicated their willingness to compromise. but then we have some presidential ambitions that are just gushing. overflowing. far more so than any oil well. and so it is deemed politically the better thing to do. first of all. to test out the president: to take him to the wall. if you nail him. fine. you have scored some points-- energy points. but political points. if you do  nail him. you can still compromise. the hoable men on the other side felt the time had come for compromise several weeks back. they realized that we had gone far past the point where politics could be permitted to determine the position of this country when it came to energy. but politics has prevailed. despite every effort to sit down and work out.  a republican plan but one acceptable to republicans and democrats. and get it on road. we are confronted with a confrontation which. if the veto is  sustained. will only continue in the same pattern of 2 years2 yearsof activity. believe me. and i say this to all my colleagues on the other side. many of whom. as i say. have made every effort to compromise and to support the president. but it also has to be said that there can be excuse that they do  have the muscle. they have the numbers in unparalleled fashion on that side. yet the record of this entire congress has been one of inactivity.  only in this matter but in many other areas. i  get to the point which i think is important. it is what i call deferring the payment. putting off the payment. you k where i do  agree with the president. it is  in the fact that i am  going to vote to sustain him. but i understand that if he is sustained. he is going to suggest a 39month phaseout. i must confess i am against it. i will tell you why. what it in effect says is that we do . politically. want to take on our shoulders right  the paymnent. we want to defer it. we have done that in so many different ways in this country. as i have said. it used to be that you lived for your children. and tried to create something for them. adays the whole thing is to make sure they have to go ahead and pay the price. energy. foreign relations. education. race relationslet them pay the price. ody wants to face up to the bill today. i am for decontrol because. very frankly. i think it brings about competition. which i think is very important. it will bring about exploration. it will set up the ecoic framework which. once again. allows the free market to take hold. why do we have lower prices for products here in the united states than they have in any other nation in the world. because of competition. the competition in the free enterprise system. we might complain about our postal service or our train service. our refrigerators. our radios. or you name it. but american labor and american business have produced the greatest products in the world at the lowest price. and that has been achieved in a private enterprise system. you can have a little bit of control. i remember in 1971. when i first came to the senate. we were in a period of ecoic stagnation. and i urged the president to impose wage and price controls. .
the amendment of the distinguished senator from delaware does  build one new school. does  create one new program. does  hire one additional teacher. it does e of these things. which are what has to be done if we want to find a solution other than busing. all it does. as everything else that is being said in the country today. is say e do  like the courts. or in effect. we do  like the constitution. we do  like the law of the land. it is an incredible position for the leadership of the country to be in. that we do  like the law of the land.
 this legislation in way affects the present status of hobby breeders with respect to the licensing requirements of the act. section 3 of current law exempts from licensing requirements any person who derives less than a substantial portion of his income from the sale of dogs and cats bred and raised on his own premises. legislative history on the floor of the house during deliberations on the 1966 act defined "substantial portion" as 25 percent or greater. s. 1941 does  alter this exemption. any hobby breeder or other person who is  presently subject to the licensing requirements of the act would  be subject to these requirements under s. 1941.
. the last thing that cities like hartford. conn.. need in times like these is 140 fewer people to aid in solving that citys problems. the last thing bridgeport. conn.. with its 12percent unemployment needs. is 500 more without jobs. the last thing this nation needs is a lapse in this important program when it is attempting to speed an uneasy recovery.
the point was then made as to the sheraton park and the facilities which it intends to construct.  1. as all of us k. that is going to be impact whatsoever on downtown washington. how many of us here in this chamber like to go to the sheraton park for receptions. it is a fine facility. but we all k it lies on the fringe of the district. it is a most inconvenient place for us to go. and certainly will have impact on downtown washington. neither will it substitute for what is being proposed by the district. because after you get through with the lobbies. corridors. and whatever. what is being built by sheraton park is 118.000 square feet of exhibition space. and what is proposed by the district is 300.000 square feet. which is what is needed for a convention center if it is to bring in that amount of income which is hoped for the city of washington. again. it is commented that every study says it will just lose money. which just is  so. the firm hired to evaluate the project comes forward with a net profit figure. the city auditors estimates range from a profit to a small loss. the only person who agrees with the chairman of the committee is one individual representing the capitol hill restoration society. who predicts a loss of between $6 and $9 million. that is the only firm or individual who supports the contentions or conclusions reached by the chairman of the committee. everyone else ranges from a profit to a very small loss. so it is  proper to say that all studies that have been made show the project losing money. i again repeat. . how much time do i have remaining.
. this legislation is the product of extensive labor on the part of numerous senators and representatives. i point particularly to the efforts of the cxxiv- 2213part 26 distinguished senator from georgia and the distinguished senator from oklahoma . accords were reached on many difficult issues. on the whole. this report provides a sound legislative base for development of programs to assist disadvantaged individuals to participate in our nations free enterprise system. i urge my colleagues to support the conference report to h.r. 11318.
. i ask that the department of labor anncement describing the successful petition of chrysler workers for trade adjustment assistance. and an article from saturdays new york times which discussed this matter. be printed in the record.
. i wonder if i may ask the distinguished senator from indiana a question. i remember well his role in the debate on the chrysler loan. indeed. i also well remember that. during the course of the debate. it was the senator from indiana who tried. and succeeded in great measure. in shaping the terms of the bailout package. it was the senator from indiana who specifically directed his attention toward the contribution from the labor unions. who directed his attention toward the individual parts of the package. indeed. the legislation was called the lugar package. . unless all this time was wasted. why. then. did the senator from indiana  merely state that there should be $1.43 billion raised from federal sources. and a board. period. why did the senator from indiana try to fashion and structure individual pieces to the package if. indeed it did  mean anything.
. i would like to direct an inquiry to the distinguished manager regarding the manner in which the formula for distribution of funds under the amendment would affect appropriations for impact aid construction projects. as you k. the conferees agreed upon an overall level of $60.000.000 earmarking funds for local schools-$25 millionfederal schools-$10 millionand indian schools-$25 million. these funds were provided with assurance that they could be spent quickly by the department because of the longstanding list of priority projects which have received approval and have been ranked in order of need. but for which sufficient funds have  been made available. my concern. very frankly. is twofold. first. the amendment would appear to override the earmarks provided by the conference report and. second. disregard the priority list of projects. for example. we have set aside $25 million for indian schools. unemployment on indian reservations is high and chronic. yet. indian reservations do  appear to qualify as civil jurisdictions under the amendment. is it my understanding that they qualify under udag criteria.
. this amendment does  add any funds to the bill. it merely provides aher year for the labor department to obligate $4 million appropriated last september in the 1982 supplemental appropriations act for construction of facilities in the joliet. ill.. job corps center. these funds were appropriated to replace facilities destroyed by fire in the joliet job corps center. it appears the labor department needs more time to complete contractual arrangements. i very much appreciate my distinguished colleague. the senator from illis. senator percy. bringing this to the attention of the committee. i also discussed the matter personally with congressman obrien. i urge adoption of the amendment.
yes. i can assure the senator from indiana that the administrative procedure he has outlined would  conflict with the provisions of public law 97377. the continuing resolution under which we are  operating. i understand that the department of labors proposal would expedite the implementation of the new program to. meet the october 1 commencement date without a break in services to program participants. i thank mr. quayle for clarifying this very important issue which has recently been brought to our attention by the u.s. conference of mayors. the league of cities. and the national association of counties. it is gratifying that the labor department promptly responded to our request to resolve this problem.
. i recommend accepting the amendment. with nationwide unemployment still in excess of 10 percent and with youth unemployment twice that level. there is doubt about the need for more jobs for our young people this summer. i urge adoption of the amendment.
. if a member tries. as one of our former colleagues did. to take this whole profession into the gutter and says everyone does it. then believe me. it will also reflect the humanity that is in this chamber. maybe we are  the most honest. maybe we are  the most caring. maybe we are  the most sharing. maybe we are  the most courageous in the world. but we think we are and so every day some portion of that comes true. if you wake up every morning saying everyone is corrupt and everyone is good some portion of that comes true. i am  naive. i am 52 years of age. i have been through all the chairs of this business. mayor. state legislator. member of the house of representatives. member of the u.s. senate. i k whereof i talk as to the quality of persons who serve. and it is different than anything else in this worldyou get what you pay for and the $100.000 is adequate.  overly adequate. it is adequate. it is commensurate with the quality of what sits in this chamber. how can anyone accept any portion of these salaries being paid by special interests.  i move to hoaria. how can you do it. we set up an ethics committee on one hand. and we agree to this type of arrangement on the other. that is  leadership. it is an invitation to disaster. counsel gives me the statistics that the average senator earned 30 percent of his income in 1982 from hoaria. $25.800. onequarter of the senate earned between 36 and 67 percent of their income from hoaria in 1982. there was a 47percent increase in
. i ask unanimous consent that the subcommittee on family and human services. of the committee on labor and human resources. be authorized to meet during the session of the senate on tuesday. october 4. to hold a hearing entitled: "broken families: the role of the government."
. i am proud to bring to the attention of my colleague two fine articles written by a distinguished citizen of connecticut. donald w. davis. chafrman and chief executive officer of the stanley works of new britain. mr. davis recently completed a factfinding trip to central america and has returned with many valuable insights. re was struck with the need to expand the horizons of our diplomatic efforts in the region. especially with regard to cuba and the contadora group initiatives. i  only strongly agree with his conclusions but urge my colleagues to consider the perspective of an outstanding private sector leader on these matters. i ask that two articles appear at this point in the racoro. the articles follow: [from the hartford courant. july 29. 19)03 thtrmiis rioirr foa a taratebal. ti amerrcarr summit (by donald w. davis) we must recognize that both mexico and canada have long established love/hate relationships with the united states. these relationships are certainly understandable in view of the disparity in culture and power between neighboring countries with common borders. for various reasons. including the publics lack of interest. it is  well kn how close mexico came to repudiating its overseas loans last august. had it repudiated the $82 billion indebtedness owed primarily to u.s. banks. the shock waves throughout the world financial community would have been colossal. there is clearly much at stake in having sound. mutually beneficial ecoic and trade relations between the united states and canada. between the united states and mexico. and. to some lesser degree. between canada and mexico. to this end. it would seem most timely to have a threenation th american summit with a focus on ecoie and trade matters. canada. the united states and mexico are all blessed with great natural resources. we are dealing with three countries which (in spite of ecoic stresses and intermittent antagonisms) have special feelings of closeness. with 3.000 miles of common borders to the th and 2.000 to the south. logic tells us that for the sake of ecoic wellbeing and security. we must have friendly relationships. all three have recently been through unusually difficult ecoic times caused by a worldwide recessionm the dislocations caused by volatile oil prices: inilation. ranging from double digit in the united. states and canada to 100 percent to ]wmexicol historically high interest rates and dramatic devaluation of the peso from 25 to the u.s. dollar to 150. the resulting unemployment and political and social stresses have swung from serious in the united states and canada. to nearly catastrophic in mexico. the united states. and canada seem to be on the verge of ecoic recovery. whereas mexico is in the early stages of massive austerity. it will take. at best. two to three years. to produce positive results in terms of increased employment or improved living conditions. one slampton of mexicos crisis. is the illegal immigration of millions of mexicans into the united states over the past few years. the political and emotional overtones for a neighbor with major unemployment problems of its own are obvious. over the past few years. these three th american neighbors have had a litany of ecoic confrontations. we all remember the headlines of tariff disputes with canada on automobile parts. objections to u.s. investment in key canadian industriesparticularly of national resources. such as oil and mining. we can recat our problems with mexico over the price of its. oil.. when the u.s. government was sufficiently insensitive to offer less favorable prices for mexican oil than for canadian ol. it is clearly in the best interests of all three countries to move away from this kind of myopic scrapping toward a new level of discussions based on mutually advantageous ecoic objectives. the timing appears right to make such an effort through a trilateral summit. one agenda item could have as its. focus something as primitive as barter. mexico clearly needs our agricultural products. products for which our supply greatly exceeds present market demand. and. in spite of a seemingly adequate supply of all and gas in the united states at the moment. greater use of mexican oil vs. mideast oil. and of mexican gassome of which is still being flared off at benefit to anyonewould make sense for both the united states and mexico. how agricultural products could be exchanged for tas and oiland how similarly advantageous trading arrangements between the united states and canada and canada and mexico could be facilitatedcould make up an important part of such a th american summit agenda. it would be very important that a call for such a summit  be dominated or even initiated by the united states. but rather some means be found for a joint initiative. among the three countries. every effort should be made to keep the summit at a level of equality and respect. while bilateral discussions between the united states and canada or between the united states and mexico generally are interpreted as having patronizing overtones. tripartite discussions between the three th american countries could avoid such negative conations. getting mexico to recognize that it is part of th america would be the first hurdle. with the present disarray in central america and mexicos obvious need for more support and trade with the united states. this would seem to be surmountable. we do  want mexico to. be drawn into the central american malaise. it is fimportant for all three th american countries to meet soon. on equal terms to ensure our friendship and to establish sound and equl. table econmomic ties. rareimarrr brrwmr twa u.s. ama
. i understand the concern of the senator from nebraska. however. i would urge him to consider introducing his amendment on aher piece of legislation. it is crucial that the senate pass this continuing resolution in very short order. the labor and human resources committee has jurisdiction in the hillburton area and i would hope that the chairman of that committee could address this matter.
. i rise today to urge my colleagues to support senate bill 2573. the reauthorization of the developmental disabilities assistance and bill of rights act. this bill reaffirms congress commitment to our.nations most severely handicapped citizensthose with developmental disabilities. the bill refines existing programs which provide services to handicapped citizens and strengthens protections for the rights of those citizens. senate bill 2573 has been reported favorably from both the subcommittee on the handicapped and the labor and human resources committee. the bill represents a substantial effort on the part of all senators on the committee. thus reflecting a tradition of bipartisan support for legislation serving handicapped americans. i would like to take this opportunity to commend my colleague. senator jennings randolph. who is the ranking member of the subcommittee on the handicapped. his leadership in shaping this reauthorization bill has been typical of his 26 years in the senate of untiring advocacy for our nations handicapped citizens. senator randolph has led the way in developing federal policy for disabled people and his presence will be greatly missed when he retires at the end of this session. i would also like to thank senator hatch. chairman of the committee on labor and human resources. for his support and assistance in developing the legislation before us today. as well as senator stafford whose efforts have been critical in developing this bill. i urge my colleagues to support senate bill 2573. the developmental disabilities act of 1984.
. i am prepared to accept this amendment to reduce the backlog of black lung appeal cases by expanding the benefits review board. the labor department should take immediate action to prepare for hiring the additional staff called for by this amendment. without making offsetting reductions in ftes of any other agency. i commend the miity leader and the senior senator from west virginia for their input on this particular matter. i think it is a fine thing and deserves our serious consideration.
yes. the senate appropriations committee added sufficieut resources to the labor departments training and employment services appropriation to permit maintaining current funding for the national longitudinal surveys throughout program year 1985. without adversely affecting other congressional priorities or budgeted projects within the national activities line item. i might add that senator glenn recently wrote to me in support of the nls. which is conducted at ohio state university.
. i would like to direct an inquiry to the distinguished manager regarding the manner in which the formula for distribution of funds under the amendment would affect appropriations for impact aid construction projects. as you k. the conferees agreed upon an overall level of $60.000.000 earmarking funds for local schools-$25 millionfederal schools-$10 millionand indian schools-$25 million. these funds were provided with assurance that they could be spent quickly by the department because of the longstanding list of priority projects which have received approval and have been ranked in order of need. but for which sufficient funds have  been made available. my concern. very frankly. is twofold. first. the amendment would appear to override the earmarks provided by the conference report and. second. disregard the priority list of projects. for example. we have set aside $25 million for indian schools. unemployment on indian reservations is high and chronic. yet. indian reservations do  appear to qualify as civil jurisdictions under the amendment. is it my understanding that they qualify under udag criteria.
. this amendment does  add any funds to the bill. it merely provides aher year for the labor department to obligate $4 million appropriated last september in the 1982 supplemental appropriations act for construction of facilities in the joliet. ill.. job corps center. these funds were appropriated to replace facilities destroyed by fire in the joliet job corps center. it appears the labor department needs more time to complete contractual arrangements. i very much appreciate my distinguished colleague. the senator from illis. senator percy. bringing this to the attention of the committee. i also discussed the matter personally with congressman obrien. i urge adoption of the amendment.
yes. i can assure the senator from indiana that the administrative procedure he has outlined would  conflict with the provisions of public law 97377. the continuing resolution under which we are  operating. i understand that the department of labors proposal would expedite the implementation of the new program to. meet the october 1 commencement date without a break in services to program participants. i thank mr. quayle for clarifying this very important issue which has recently been brought to our attention by the u.s. conference of mayors. the league of cities. and the national association of counties. it is gratifying that the labor department promptly responded to our request to resolve this problem.
. i recommend accepting the amendment. with nationwide unemployment still in excess of 10 percent and with youth unemployment twice that level. there is doubt about the need for more jobs for our young people this summer. i urge adoption of the amendment.
. if a member tries. as one of our former colleagues did. to take this whole profession into the gutter and says everyone does it. then believe me. it will also reflect the humanity that is in this chamber. maybe we are  the most honest. maybe we are  the most caring. maybe we are  the most sharing. maybe we are  the most courageous in the world. but we think we are and so every day some portion of that comes true. if you wake up every morning saying everyone is corrupt and everyone is good some portion of that comes true. i am  naive. i am 52 years of age. i have been through all the chairs of this business. mayor. state legislator. member of the house of representatives. member of the u.s. senate. i k whereof i talk as to the quality of persons who serve. and it is different than anything else in this worldyou get what you pay for and the $100.000 is adequate.  overly adequate. it is adequate. it is commensurate with the quality of what sits in this chamber. how can anyone accept any portion of these salaries being paid by special interests.  i move to hoaria. how can you do it. we set up an ethics committee on one hand. and we agree to this type of arrangement on the other. that is  leadership. it is an invitation to disaster. counsel gives me the statistics that the average senator earned 30 percent of his income in 1982 from hoaria. $25.800. onequarter of the senate earned between 36 and 67 percent of their income from hoaria in 1982. there was a 47percent increase in
. i ask unanimous consent that the subcommittee on family and human services. of the committee on labor and human resources. be authorized to meet during the session of the senate on tuesday. october 4. to hold a hearing entitled: "broken families: the role of the government."
. i am proud to bring to the attention of my colleague two fine articles written by a distinguished citizen of connecticut. donald w. davis. chafrman and chief executive officer of the stanley works of new britain. mr. davis recently completed a factfinding trip to central america and has returned with many valuable insights. re was struck with the need to expand the horizons of our diplomatic efforts in the region. especially with regard to cuba and the contadora group initiatives. i  only strongly agree with his conclusions but urge my colleagues to consider the perspective of an outstanding private sector leader on these matters. i ask that two articles appear at this point in the racoro. the articles follow: [from the hartford courant. july 29. 19)03 thtrmiis rioirr foa a taratebal. ti amerrcarr summit (by donald w. davis) we must recognize that both mexico and canada have long established love/hate relationships with the united states. these relationships are certainly understandable in view of the disparity in culture and power between neighboring countries with common borders. for various reasons. including the publics lack of interest. it is  well kn how close mexico came to repudiating its overseas loans last august. had it repudiated the $82 billion indebtedness owed primarily to u.s. banks. the shock waves throughout the world financial community would have been colossal. there is clearly much at stake in having sound. mutually beneficial ecoic and trade relations between the united states and canada. between the united states and mexico. and. to some lesser degree. between canada and mexico. to this end. it would seem most timely to have a threenation th american summit with a focus on ecoie and trade matters. canada. the united states and mexico are all blessed with great natural resources. we are dealing with three countries which (in spite of ecoic stresses and intermittent antagonisms) have special feelings of closeness. with 3.000 miles of common borders to the th and 2.000 to the south. logic tells us that for the sake of ecoic wellbeing and security. we must have friendly relationships. all three have recently been through unusually difficult ecoic times caused by a worldwide recessionm the dislocations caused by volatile oil prices: inilation. ranging from double digit in the united. states and canada to 100 percent to ]wmexicol historically high interest rates and dramatic devaluation of the peso from 25 to the u.s. dollar to 150. the resulting unemployment and political and social stresses have swung from serious in the united states and canada. to nearly catastrophic in mexico. the united states. and canada seem to be on the verge of ecoic recovery. whereas mexico is in the early stages of massive austerity. it will take. at best. two to three years. to produce positive results in terms of increased employment or improved living conditions. one slampton of mexicos crisis. is the illegal immigration of millions of mexicans into the united states over the past few years. the political and emotional overtones for a neighbor with major unemployment problems of its own are obvious. over the past few years. these three th american neighbors have had a litany of ecoic confrontations. we all remember the headlines of tariff disputes with canada on automobile parts. objections to u.s. investment in key canadian industriesparticularly of national resources. such as oil and mining. we can recat our problems with mexico over the price of its. oil.. when the u.s. government was sufficiently insensitive to offer less favorable prices for mexican oil than for canadian ol. it is clearly in the best interests of all three countries to move away from this kind of myopic scrapping toward a new level of discussions based on mutually advantageous ecoic objectives. the timing appears right to make such an effort through a trilateral summit. one agenda item could have as its. focus something as primitive as barter. mexico clearly needs our agricultural products. products for which our supply greatly exceeds present market demand. and. in spite of a seemingly adequate supply of all and gas in the united states at the moment. greater use of mexican oil vs. mideast oil. and of mexican gassome of which is still being flared off at benefit to anyonewould make sense for both the united states and mexico. how agricultural products could be exchanged for tas and oiland how similarly advantageous trading arrangements between the united states and canada and canada and mexico could be facilitatedcould make up an important part of such a th american summit agenda. it would be very important that a call for such a summit  be dominated or even initiated by the united states. but rather some means be found for a joint initiative. among the three countries. every effort should be made to keep the summit at a level of equality and respect. while bilateral discussions between the united states and canada or between the united states and mexico generally are interpreted as having patronizing overtones. tripartite discussions between the three th american countries could avoid such negative conations. getting mexico to recognize that it is part of th america would be the first hurdle. with the present disarray in central america and mexicos obvious need for more support and trade with the united states. this would seem to be surmountable. we do  want mexico to. be drawn into the central american malaise. it is fimportant for all three th american countries to meet soon. on equal terms to ensure our friendship and to establish sound and equl. table econmomic ties. rareimarrr brrwmr twa u.s. ama
. i understand the concern of the senator from nebraska. however. i would urge him to consider introducing his amendment on aher piece of legislation. it is crucial that the senate pass this continuing resolution in very short order. the labor and human resources committee has jurisdiction in the hillburton area and i would hope that the chairman of that committee could address this matter.
. i rise today to urge my colleagues to support senate bill 2573. the reauthorization of the developmental disabilities assistance and bill of rights act. this bill reaffirms congress commitment to our.nations most severely handicapped citizensthose with developmental disabilities. the bill refines existing programs which provide services to handicapped citizens and strengthens protections for the rights of those citizens. senate bill 2573 has been reported favorably from both the subcommittee on the handicapped and the labor and human resources committee. the bill represents a substantial effort on the part of all senators on the committee. thus reflecting a tradition of bipartisan support for legislation serving handicapped americans. i would like to take this opportunity to commend my colleague. senator jennings randolph. who is the ranking member of the subcommittee on the handicapped. his leadership in shaping this reauthorization bill has been typical of his 26 years in the senate of untiring advocacy for our nations handicapped citizens. senator randolph has led the way in developing federal policy for disabled people and his presence will be greatly missed when he retires at the end of this session. i would also like to thank senator hatch. chairman of the committee on labor and human resources. for his support and assistance in developing the legislation before us today. as well as senator stafford whose efforts have been critical in developing this bill. i urge my colleagues to support senate bill 2573. the developmental disabilities act of 1984.
. i am prepared to accept this amendment to reduce the backlog of black lung appeal cases by expanding the benefits review board. the labor department should take immediate action to prepare for hiring the additional staff called for by this amendment. without making offsetting reductions in ftes of any other agency. i commend the miity leader and the senior senator from west virginia for their input on this particular matter. i think it is a fine thing and deserves our serious consideration.
yes. the senate appropriations committee added sufficieut resources to the labor departments training and employment services appropriation to permit maintaining current funding for the national longitudinal surveys throughout program year 1985. without adversely affecting other congressional priorities or budgeted projects within the national activities line item. i might add that senator glenn recently wrote to me in support of the nls. which is conducted at ohio state university.
. i rise today to offer an amendment in the form of a substitute bill to s. 415 as it was reported out of the labor and human resources committee on july 10. 1985. this amendment is cosponsored by senators hatch. stafford.
. i thank my colleague from utah for his comments. i believe especially important to e here. as a matter of procedure. is that hearings will be held on the reauthorization of. title x within his committee. that - is the place to debate this matter.. my colleague from utah has indicated his feelings as to what -these moneys can or should be used for. i disagree with him. but the place to resolve that is within the labor and human resources committee. the hearings are assured and i only suggest that those that have different points of view on the subject matter prepare themselves for the hearings. it will be debated there and whatever is then needed in conformity with the authorizing legislation will be placed on the continuing resolution. so let us make mistake about it. it was just felt. properly so. i believe. by the chairman of the authorizing committee that the appropriations bill was  the place of debate and final resolution of these matters. but later within his committee.
again. the chairman of the labor and human resources committee is correct. the adolescent family life program was unfunded in the bill and faced the prospect of potential funding on the floor. but that action has  been taken. so the matter can be resolved in the authorizing committee. again. when it is resolved -in the authorizing committee. then the funding. or lack thereof. will occur on the continuing resolution. so i wish to make it very clear that the senate action today does . in effect. relate to the merits of either of these programs. that is to be decided within the committee of the senator from utah. and when that issue is resolved. the funding will follow. which is the mal course of events.
. i am indeed familiar with the situation outlined by the distinguished senator from arizona . it is my understanding that secretary brock has initiated a supplemental appropriation request for an additional $8.49 million in federal unemployment trust fund moneys. that amount would bring the programs to the staffing levels mandated by law.
. i thank my colleague from utah for his comments. i believe especially important to e here. as a matter of procedure. is that hearings will be held on the reauthorization of title x within his committee. that is the place to debate this matter. (cong. rec.. daily ed.. october 21. 1985. 813655). as one of the original cosponsors of legislation. s. 881. to extend the authorization of appropriations for the title x. which has been pending before the labor and human resources committee since last spring. i was pleased to learn of the commitment of the senator from utah to allow the authorizing committee to consider the reauthorization legislation. s. 881 has  been sponsored by 37 senators. from both sides of the aisle and with differing perspectives on the issues of abortion. as of this date. however. to my kledge. hearings have been scheduled on the reauthorization of title x and the labor and human resources committee has  been permitted to vote on s. 881. although an effort was made by several members of the committee to have the title x reauthorization considered at the beginning of the committees meeting on i strongly believe that the type of amendments described by the senator from utah should be considered by the authorizing committeethe labor and human resources committeerather than proposed as riders to open an appropriations bill on the senate floor. however. the possibility clearly remains that an attempt may be made to bypass consideration by the authorizing committeeand its probable repudiation of these crippling amendmentsby seeking to attach these amendments to the continuing resolution on the senate floor. because these amendments may come before the senate without a great deal of ice or opportunity for debate. i intend to make several statements. in advance of floor consideration of the continuing resolution. in order to explore the serious adverse potential impact of such amendments.
. i understand that some consideration is being given to possibly moving the bureau of labor statistics. in my view. such a move would  be in the best interest of the agency. i plan to raise this issue at next years hearings. and oppose any move of bl.-in whole or in partout of the downtown washington. dc. area at this time. staff of the bureau of labor statistics are currently spread throughout several buildings in the downtown. washington. dc. area and should be consolidated in one convenient location. this would enhance security for sensitive data which  is used as a basis for a commodities trading index. proximity to capitol hill is important. in view of the almost daily need for timely access to important data. including regular releases of unemployment statistics and consumer price indexes. most of the major ecoic policy agencies that utilize bls are also located downtowni. as chairman of the laborhhseducation appropriations subcommittee which has jurisdiction over the bls budget. i would be very concerned about precipitous actions to force a move of any components of this agency. senator proxmire. the ranking miity member of the subcommittee. has long been a friend and leading advocate of bls. and shares my concern. i therefore plan to carefully monitor developments in this area until satisfactory resolution of this matter is achieved.o
we are faced with the fact that the administration claims it must close job corps centers to comply with the fiscal 1986 grammrudmanhollings cutbacks. after developing a criterion for rating the effectiveness and efficiency of all 106 centers. the labor department annced plans to close the 6 lowestrated centers. although i object to selectively restoring grammrudman cuts. i am aware of questions that have been raised about the labor departments rating system. as well as arguments that the grammrudman cutback could be achieved without closing centers at this time. still. i have reservations about guaranteeing the perpetual existence of lowquality training facilities. especia:ly if this mortgages future appropriations or requires diverting money from pilot projects aimed at demonstrating how job corps can better serve more youth for less money. obviously. this is an issue we will have to resolve in conference. and i appreciate my colleagues bringing their concerns to my attention.
. i urge the passage of s. 2294. the education of the handlcapped amendments of 1986. to amend and extend the discretionary programs under the education of the handicapped act for an additional 3 years. and to create a new program of early childhood intervention for handicapped children. this legislation was unanimously ordered reported by the labor and human resources committee on may 20. the new early childhood initiative contained in this legislation will bring federal law up to date with the stateoftheart in the field of special education. experts in the field have kn for some timeand the administration itself ackledgesthat the earlier handicapped infants receive intensive intervention servicesthe greater the educational. emotional. and intellectual. benefits that child will reap as he or she grows up. handicapped children who receive these early childhood services have the opportunity to maximize their potential for growth in ways undreamed of. even a short time ago. yet. even though the department of educations own research and analysis supports the need. for these early childhood services. i want my colleagues to k that. shortly before the full committee met to consider this legislation. secretary of education william bennett wrote a lengthly letter objecting to this bill. in this letter. secretary bennett opposes the new state grant program proposed. in s. 2294 to provide. services for. handicapped infants from birth through. age two. stating that it "would be. unduly- prescriptive. burdensome. and. costly." specifically. he states that the $100 million authorization for this program "is clearly excessive." 1 must strongly disagree with him. first of all. the new state grant program was designed to give participating states maximum flexibility in determining the appropriate services for each child. the bill lists a variety of services that may be provided. ranging from speech. language. and physical therapy. to. special education and family support services. far from being "unduly prescriptive". there is mandate inthe bill to provide any of those services specifically. as that determination can best be made by the multidisciplinary team which will evaluate each childs needs and. develop an. educational program for that child. further. i must disagree with his statement that the. program is too costly. when educators. parents. and advocates alike agree that it is far more expensive in the long run  to provide early educational services for handicapped children. the savings to be derived from providing such services are far greater than the actual costs of this program. experts in special education believe that this approach will result in lower special education costs over the time that child is in the educational system. i would call secretary bennetts attention to the departments 1984 report to congress. citing evidence to indicate that "if intervention began at birth. education costs to age 18 were projected to be $37.272. if. however. intervention was delayed to age six. the cost was projected to be $53.350." even the fiscally prudent can see that a savings of $16.000 per handicapped child makes good ecoic sense and is clearly costeffective in the long run. and. the more we can do for these handicapped children. the greater the likelihood that child will become a fully participating member of society. and a taxpayer. rather than a tax user. this is a program from which everyone benefits: the handicapped person whose. opportunities for selfimprovement and fulfillment are greatly enhanced. and society. on both humane and ecoic terms. secretary bennett further opposes the bill because it "would compel participating states to provide a free appropriate public education to 3- to 5yearold handicapped children. it would. in our view. be a serious encroachment on the longstanding right of states and local communities to control the education of their children." surely. the secretary is aware that public law 94142 already guarantees a free appropriate public education to all children. beginning at age 3. the only reason that some 240.000 3- to 5yearolds who should be receiving special education services are being deprived of those services is that a loophole exists allowing states whose state laws do  require the provision of such services to get out from under this mandate. why should any handicapped child have to do without these essential services just because he happens to reside in one state rather than aher. it is clear that. while some states are doing the job. many are to the detriment of thousands of handicapped youngsters. further. i am sure secretary bennett must. remember that the reason for passage of public law 94142 was that the states were  all providing needy handicapped children with special educational services. our educational system for these children has come a long way since the passage of public law 94142 over 10 years ago. the 19b6 amendments will ensure that gains made since that time will continue. and it represents a significant step toward ensuring that all handicapped children have the opportunities they need to make the most of their abilities. i urge the adoption of the legislation.
. i ask unanimous consent that h.r. 4021. the housepassed rehabilitation act amendments of 1986. be discharged from the committee on labor and human resources and that the senate proceed to its immediate consideration.
. i appreciate the comments of the senior senator from washington. i can assure him that the committee has. and will continue. to examine carefully the way funding for unemployment services affects americans looking for work. the committee has taken action to limit the impact that the recommended level of funding will have on state programs. we have acted to restore part of the funding in this program by accepting the metzenbaum amendment. this amendment will transfer an additional $33 million into the claims processing activity. i i can assure the senator from washington that i will carefully consider the higher level of funding approved by the house of representatives when h.r. 5233 goes to conference. obviously. the funding level for this program is an issue we will have to resolve in conference. and i appreciate my colleagues bringing his concerns to my attention.
. we can bring back the men who died or truly compensate their families for their loss. but we can see to it that any financial settlement benefits those who are the victims. i urge my colleagues to join me in support of the bill. true. it deals with an accident in a single state. but the recent rise in construction deaths is a nationwide phee. the tust fund i am proposing today is one aspect of the answer. more aggressive field inspections by osha is aher and to that end congress had directed a review of oshas onsite monitoring of new construction. hearings in both houses of congress have raised doubts about how well osha inspected the site and monitored the construction practices in use at lamblance plaza. further hearings on the accident and on oshas inspection procedures will be held in the senate labor and human resources committee in midmarch. it is my hope that we can move ahead on both fronts to insure that the lambiance tragedy is  repeated elsewhere in america and to see to it that those who have been hurt are helped. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the record at this point.
 to confer with other industrialized democracies to reach agreements to impose sanctions against south africa. for years the united states has tried and failed at the policies of constructive engagement. the south african government has remained intransigent. its policies today are as barbarous and immoral as they were 20 years ago. we can sit idly in diplomatic parlor rooms waiting for botha to se the light. velvet gloves are  capable of persuasion with a government that detains and tortures children. throughout south africa. moderate black leaders and organizations are calling for stronger sanctions. desmond tutu. simon farisani. and cosatu. the largest black trade union in the country are calling upon the united states to take action and we must heed that call. we must let the people of south africa k that we are  mere spectators to their struggle. i urge my fellow colleagues to join with us in supporting this next vital step in the battle against apartheid. by mr. sasser (for himself).
i thank my distinguished colleague from new york. i want to point out to this body that what we are about to vote on has hing to do with waging an effective war on drugs. we can talk about capital punishment. we can talk about drug czars. we can talk about calling out the marines. there is hing very mysterious about what needs to be done and what has yet to be done. which is to call for those resources necessary to give to our law enforcement agencies. the coast guard. dea. the fbi. u.s. attorneys and local and state law enforcement agencies. the wherewithal to wage this battle. to give to the drug addition programs the wherewithal to wage this battle. to give to drug education program the wherewithal to wage this battle. if anybody wants to be. tough on drugs. let them stand up on the senate floor and say: we are for taxes. which are the only bullets that we can manufacture to give the money to drug education. to drug addiction programs. and to law enforcement. that is tough. at least that is tough for us. because that cuts on our political skins. but. instead. we use these thoughts and phrases to give the illusion that we are voting on today does something in the war on drugs. that is why this bill is mischievous. it does  do anything in that war.
. i am pleased to be an original cosponsor of - the techogyrelated assistance for individuals with disabilities act of 1988. and want to commend my colleague. senator harkin. for his leadership in ensuring that this legislation represents a comprehensive approach to delivery of assistive techogy services for people with disabities. hearings recently held by the subcommittee on the handicapped examined ways to promote the use of assistive techogy for people with disabilities. and provided a blueprint for eliminating many of the barriers which impede their access to these important services and devices. in recent years there has been a tremendous growth in the rate of techogical ination. indeed. we all hear daily of new developments in this area. and these developments certainly enrich our lives. but for people with disabilities. particularly people with severe disabilities. techogy has clearly become one of the most important inations for assisting them in leading independent. productive lives. the importance of techogy in lives of disabled individuals was strongly reinforced at the subcommittee hearings. led by senator harkin. the subcommittee examined a wide range of needs and barriers to making techogy services and devices available for people with disabilities. because the impact of the advances in techogy is much greater when you actually see what can be accomplished. the subcommittee. assisted by the coalition on techogy and disability. made available a demonstration of the multiple ways in which techogy can enhance the daily lives and activities of people with disabilities. toys can be adapted so that even very severely disabled children can play as would a disabled child. sophisticated. devices devices such as electronic communication devices can enable individuals who can speak to express themselves. environmental control devices can permit people with limited functional atlitics to operate telephones and direct the use of a pencil or other utensil. and these are just a few examples of the exciting developments in the area of assistive techogy. as a result of these advances. disabled individuals are becoming increasingly integrated into our educational system. our work force. and our communities. but during the hearings we also learned that individuals who need assistive techogy face a number of problems in obtaining necessary services and devices. there is single. indentiflable source one can use to obtain information about assistive techogy. and. coordination at the federal level is lacking. for example. provisions for assistive techogy exist under part g of the education of the handicapped act which expand the use of techogy for disabled children. through assistive techogy in the classroom. disabled children can be integrated into the educational system with their disabled peers. the rehabilitation act amendments of 1986 also include numerous provisions to increase the availability of rehabilitation techogy in state rehabilitation systems. indeed. often the provision of a very simple techogical service or device can make the difference between employment and productivity. or unemployment and dependence. for many people with disabilities. but what current legislation does  do is facilitate a comprehensive approach at either the federal. state. or local level for the utilization of assistive techogy. the bill being introduced today will enable states to develop comprehensive and coordinated systems for providing assistive techogy to disabled individuals. it will allow for analysis of the financial disincentives which prevent people with the devices and services they need. the bill will also enable the secretary of educationto determine the feasibility of establishing a national information and referral network. further. the bill addresses the need for training and public awareness by authorizing grants to collect information about available assistive techogy and to educate consumers and providers through national media campaigns. conference. and public recognition programs. this heightened awareness would target employers. commercial developers of techogy and insurers in providing the acquisition* of and funding for services. for most people techogy makes things easier. for disabled persons techogy makes things possible. the challenge is to stay abreast of the rapid techogical advances and make them available to those people with disabilities who need theim. i believe that the bill we are introducing today will assist us in that challenge. the chairmans leadership in this effort is to be commended and i look forward with senator harkin. senator krry. and members of the subcommittee to ensure the swift passage of this lcgislation.o by mr. armstrong (for himself and mr. wirth):
. since 1981. 10 states have raised their minimum wage above the federal wage yet in all of these states. with the exception of alaska during the recession year of 1982. employment has increased. while unemployment has decreased or remained the same. in my own state of connecticut. for example. the minimum wage was increased to $3.75 an hour in 1987. yet unemployment decreased from 3.8 percent in 1986 to 3.3 percent in 1987. by the way. the connecticut minimum wage is scheduled to be raised to $4.25 by october 1. 1988. clearly. we need to ensure that the working people of this great nation receive a fair wage and enjoy an improved standard of living. neither of these objectives can be accomplished at todays minimum wage of $3.35 an hour. therefore. i urge my colleagues to join me in supporting the minimum wage restoration act of 1988. and promote the ecoic selfsufficiency of the nations working poor.
. to the bottom line. the access to better child care act promises all of this and more for an authorization of $2.5 billion. that is less than 1 percent of the total we spend on defense every year. yet it is an investment that will do much to strengthen our families. our work force. and our ecoy. like the parental leave section of this leg.slation. the abc bill is pro family. it offered us an opportunity to go beyond talk to action. i deeply regret that the senate preferred inaction to action. but this will  be the end of the profamily agenda: it is shnply the beginning.e
i would  have such a testimonial dinner. but if the senator is asking whether it is proper for a u.s. senator to have a testimonial dinner. the purpose of which is clearly stated and clearly understoodthat purpose being to use the income therefrom to pay off his personal debts--my answer is that i k of law which prohibits it and i k of rules or regulations of the u.s. senate which prohibit it. and i do  k of any impropriety involved in holding such a function. i think it is a question which is left entirely to the individual u.s. senator to determine whether this is the way in which he wants to raise his money. i see difference between this and an individual gift that someone may contribute to a senator for his own personal use.
it seems to me that the senator from new jersey is going back to the question raised by the distinguished senior senator from oregon as to whether it is an impropriety for a u.s. senator to have testimonial dinners. the income from which is to be for his personal use. this all very well may be wrong. but the united states senate. to the best of my kledge. at time has ever said it is wrong. and there are rules or guidelines by which a u.s. senator can be bound. so far as that is concerned. and as i responded to the distinguished senator from oregon. this is a matter of a mans own individual conscience and decision. i do  think that in this case we can apply such a rule. because there are such rules that we can work by. we get. then. into an ex post facto part of the case: whether there are such rules that we can use to govern this case. i k of such rules. unless the senator from new jersey can cite them.
. it seems to me very clear that congress never intended unions or corporations to be able to do indirectly what they could  do directly: but listening to the letter from assistant attorney general vinson addressed to the senator from delaware. i failed to distinguish any statement in that letter which supported the senators assumption that the money was actually union money. that is a question i wish to have clarified. if the money belonged to individuals who voluntarily joined together in a group in making political contributions. even though they were union members. it seems to me there is law prohibiting that.  should there be. union members as individuals or as voluntary groups should  be denied the right to make political contributions. if there is evidence that money which belonged to the labor union was being indirectly given to a political candidate or a political committee. then that would be in violation of the existing law.
. as i understand from what the distinguished senator from kentucky has said. the money that has been raised for campaign purposes can only be expended for campaign purposes. the question i would like to ask is: is the hiring of additional personnel in a senators office or the sending out of more letters than the senator would mally send considered to _be campaign expenditures. properly chargeable against campaign funds raised.
. the amendment offered by the able senator from nebraska is aher attempt to deal with the troublesome subject of industrial development bonds. as i stated earlier this year when the senate debated the matter. it is my own judgment that these bonds had been abused and that their taxexempt status should  be extended. i reached this conclusion largely because of my concern for the adverse impact of such bonds on municipal financing in general. and particularly their pressure on interest rates. very large issues of industrial development bonds had become rather common and the trend was clearly adverse. furthermore. over the years such bonds have been the device for unhealthy pirating of industry from one area to aher. until very recently my own state had never offered such bonds. but in recent months. under pressure from competition in other states. massachusetts has begun to act in this field. naturally. having initiated a number of projects involving such bonds. my state has been reluctant to see them terminated just when it is beginning to benefit from them. our situation was similar to that in other states. and i argued in our previous debate that authority for such bonds should be extended for a reasonable period to allow pending projects to be completed. this. of course. is what the junior senator from connecticut and other members of the senate agreed to do when this body first acted on the issue last spring. however. the compromise reached in the conference committee took a different form. as is well kn. instead of permitting all such bonds to retain tax exemption until january 1. 1969. and then terminating the exemption for all bonds of this class. as i had proposed. the bill finally enacted into law set a ceiling of $1 million but continued the authority indefinitely. this seemed to me less desirable than the senate version. but i accepted it as a reasonable compromise. i have thought long and hard about the proposal to raise the ceiling to $5 million. there is much support for the measure among men whom i greatly respect. both here in the senate and in massachusetts. nevertheless. i have decided that the better part or wisdom lies against the amendment. to retain the ceiling at the present level. i am informed by the committee on finance. would be to continue the volume of such bonds at 60 to 70 percent of the previous level. and that estimate does  take account or the probable tendency to exploit the ceiling by such practices as multiple or incremental bond issues designed to circumvent the limitation. i do  have to say how strongly i support the goals of job creation and ecoic expansion. they are essential to our countrys welfare. but i believe we should employ other kinds of governmental incentives and subsidies than development bonds of this character. moreover. i believe that. when every state employs such bonding techniques.  state really benefits from them. in such circumstances. most plant location and expansion decisions are almost certainly made on the same grounds they would be in the absence of any such bonds. that is. on the basis of strict ecoic calculations regarding materials. labor force. and market advantages. thus. such bonds offer the illusion but  the substance of a true ecoic incentive. their main result. it seems to me. is to drive up the costs to taxpayers and to make more difficult the resort to public bonds for clearly public purposes. i certainly respect the different conclusions which my good friend from nebraska has reached on this matter. i k that he has given careful thought to the matter and that many of our colleagues share his judgment. perhaps thorough hearings and further information would persuade me that his is the most sensible course. but on the basis of all that i have been able to learn. i do  believe we should encourage the wider use of industrial development bonds. i hope the senate will disapprove the amendment.
. one of the most critical domestic issues facing our country is that of providing opportunities for employment and selfimprovement for millions of disadvantaged americans. this need has been recognized by many businesses and industries. who have undertaken to employ and train the hardcore unemployed. one of the pioneers in this field is a company in cambridge. mass.. klh. already one of the most famous names in the production of electronic sound systems. was founded in 1957 by farsighted businessmen who had as an initial objective the employment of miity groups and persons who needed special training and incentives. this company. 35 percent of whose employees are presently members of miity groups. has enjoyed remarkable success in employee relationships and personnel development. the klh program has recently been featured as one of 12 case studies conducted by the new urban action clearing house of the national chamber of commerce. because of the interest in programs of this nature. and because of the need to develop more such employment programs. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the chamber of commerce study. entitled "boston firm marking 10 years of success in hiring hard core." be printed in the record.
. when the subject of mirv was first introduced. the junior senator from california was one of the first to grasp the significance. the importance. and the seriousness of the issue. the senator has  only associated himself with the matter as a supporter of the resolution. he has also been an active worker in talking with members of the senate and gaining the support of many on his own side of the aisle who have joined in cosponsoring the resolution. i want the senator to k. as he is  serving his first term. that he is truly a welcome addition to the u.s. senate. he certainly is a welcome supporter and cosponsor of the resolution. i express to him my gratitude for all he has done to get the support that we have been able to muster in order to bring the matter before the administration. the nation. and the world. i thank the distinguished junior senator from california for his rich contribution.
. we have heard repeated many times in this chamber the grim statistics on urban unemployment. negro unemployment. school dropouts. and increasing crime. we have been told repeatedly by mayors and social scientists. psychologists and program directors. that these and many other ills of our society are closely interrelated. yet we have continued to condemn the rise in urban crime. to cut spending for social welfare programs. and to deplore the unrest which plagues our land. such efforts are counterproductive. if we would deal constructively with social ills. we must take steps to preserve and to extend to all americans an appreciation for the values which our nation has traditionally upheld. we can do this only by making all americans aware that the social system can adapt and change itself to work for all our people. the neighborhood youth corps is a program designed with this very objective in mind. under the present budgetary authority. 336.000 youths will be given meaningful employment this year. they will be employed in various capacities working for the cities and their agencies: they will work as recreation directors. laborers. and in other positions of assistance to the community. they will learn. as all young people with summer employment learn. the value of work and the advantage of a personal income. many of them will use their wages to help support their families. and to further their own or their siblings further education. the advantages which they and the community will derive from this program can be measured in dollar or social value. though the cost to the government can be measureda mere $411 per person. unfortunately. however. there are far more unemployed and eligible young people than there are positions and funds available. the department of labor estimates that more than 1.5 million youths will be eligible. yet under present funding. slots are available for less than 22 percent. or 336.000. significantly. on the basis of a request for information. the u.s. conference of mayors has estimated that the 50 largest cities alone could use 72.382 additional slots. a sample of smaller cities indicates that they could utilize 50 percent more positions than are presently allocated. or an additional 67.313 slots. the total number of additional slots which our nations cities could make available this summer is thus 139.695. at a cost of $411 per slot. the additional funding required is thus $55 million. the amount requested in the pending amendment. in view of the great advantage which this program provides. and keeping in mind the rather minimal costs when compared with other government programs. i sincerely hope that the senate will give to the cities the amount of funds they believe they can use. and will agree to the pending amendment.
. on( of the most serious problems which this country faces is that of improving employment opportunities for our miity citizens. despite the passage of a great deal of equal employment legislation. there is still far tao much "token compliance." particularly in the various construction industries. it was to counter this problem that the city of philadelphia established a program under the direction of an area coordinator for contract compliance designed to go beyond paper compliance to the adoption and implementation of specific goals of numerical standards in certain critical crafts. this valuable program is  under serious consideration by the city of boston in my own state of massachusetts. i am most hopeful that an area coordinator for contract compliance may soon be approved for the new england area. and i have written to secretary of labor george shultz in this regard. i ask unanimous consent that the text of my letter to secretary shultz be printed in the record.
. a most significant decision was taken yesterday by the nixon administratioe which deserves our recognition and support. for many weeks a controversy has swirled about the socalled philadelphia plan. an equal opportunity compliance program first put into effect in the philadelphia area in july of this year. under this program. designed to implement a 1965 executive order requiring equal employment opportunity in federal contracts and federally assisted construction work. six construction trades were required to set specific goals for the utilization of miity employees. and to make every good faith effort to reach those goals. yesterday. in a joint press conference. the secretary of labor and the attorney general disposed. once and for all. of the specious argument that the plan was illegal because it violated a provision of the civil rights act declaring that race and national origin could  be used as a factor in employment. according to the attorney general: there is inherent inconsistency between a requirement that each qualified employee and applicant be individually treated without regard to race. and a requirement that an employer make every good faith effort to achieve a certain range of miity employment. in his statement. the attorney general recognized the fact that the construction unions are often in a position  only of discriminating against miity workers. but of dominating the hiring system as well. such practices make it nearly impossible for qualified blacks to obtain jobs on federally financed construction projects. an attempt to overcome such practices could never be "discriminatory." secretary shultz has fought long and hard for equal opportunity in the construction trades. yesterdays joint anncement represents a major victory. it is a victory for the miity workers. who will  find their employment opportunities expanded as the philadelphia plan. or modifloations thereof. take root in other cities. it is a victory for the department of labor. and for the administration. which has recognized the roots of discontent among americas poor and its miities and has taken steps to answer this discontent. but most of all. it represents a victory for america itself. for it is the beginning of a clear commitment to equal employment opportunity. and with employment can come the essentials of a better life for all americans.
. it is a pleasure to draw to the attention of senators a most remarkable address given last month by the administrator of the labor departments wage and hour division. mr. robert d. moran. in his speech. bob moran demonstrates a warmth and human understanding which are  generally associated with washington bureaucracy. he tells what the wage and hour division does. how it does it. and why. basically. he says. the division cares about people. and his speech makes that very clear. i am proud of the fact that administrator moran is from massachusetts. i commend him for his concern. i recommend his statement as coming from a fine public servant who is clearly doirg very well the task of translating the cold language of the law into humane action. i ask unanimous consent that his speech be printed in the record.
 nixon adopted a forwardlooking position of leadership in this area last ember when he annced the policy that the united states will  employ biological weapons under any circumstances and that our existing stockpiles of germ weapons are to be destroyed. he is hopeful. as we all are. that all nations will take heed and adopt a similar course of responsible action. herbicides.  included in this category. have been the cause for additional concern by many who question their strategic value in light of evidence suggesting longrange effects on the environment. however. the concern over possible ecological consequences of herbicides in recent months has given way to a concern over the teratogenic. or fetusdeforming. properties of 2.4.5t. a compound present in a number of herbicides. from the studies that have been completed. it is  conclusive. in my view. that the results on experimental animals can be effectively extrapolated into the human experience. more important. on april 15 of this year. secretary packard annced that the use of 2.4.5t for military operations had been suspended. this action has. in my opinion. rendered the debates over this compound moot. on the other hand. evidence gathered from field commanders in vietnam suggests strongly that the herbicide program is strategically valuable and is saving american lives. their reported use includes defoliation for purposes of improved aerial reconnaissance. defoliation of enemy base camps for purposes of air strikes. defoliation around lines of communication. and around the perimeters of isolated base camps and. most important. defoliation along key roadways for the purpose of minimizing ambushes. the department. equally concerned over the environmental impact of their herbicide program has imposed a number of restrictions. the result has been a 75percent reduction in use level in this area over the past 2 years. the armed services committee. under the able leadership of our chairman. has authorized a study to be conducted by the national academy of sciences for the purposes of ascertaining the ecological and physiological consequences that follow the use of herbicides. this. hopefully. will clarify the effects of the various compounds presently in use. in my view. the department of defense has adopted a responsible course of action by limiting the use of herbicides while seeking to achieve specific military objectives. accordingly. i will vote against the amendment offered by my distinguished colleague from wisconsin.
the provision which provided for a ceiling of 25 percent of tenant income for rent was put into effect on march 24th of this year. the provision which provided funds for improved operating and maintenance services was  put into effect. and money was spent for that by the authorities.
. as the 92d congress opens. this nation faces its highest unemployment rate in many years. the jobless rate has reached a level of 6 percent. and many experts believe it may rise even higher. my own state of massachusetts has been hit especially hard. besides the protracted unemployment caused by the closing of textile and shoe plants. the commonwealth is also beset by major layoffs in aerospace and defense related industries. traditionally. much unemployment has been caused by increased mechanization and advancing techogy. the necessity of lower costs and increased efficiency too often means the replacement of workers by machines.  it appears that our techogical advancement may have boomeranged. the federal government. long the principal customer of many of our most specialized and scientifically advanced industries. has drastically cut its purchases leaving these firms to face diminished markets and major layoffs. techogical unemployment accounts for an increasing portion of those out of work. if we are to aid our depressed areas and stimulate our ecoy. we must find a way to decisively reduce unemployment. this congress must give priority consideration to programs that will assist the unemployed and aid in conversion of our afflicted industries. there are many alternatives open to us. and the following resolution of the massachusetts senate offers but one. i hope that the senate will have an early and complete opportunity to deal with the complex problems of this nations high unemployment. i ask unanimous consent that the resolution be printed at this point in the record.
i am pleased to associate myself with the work of the distinguished senator from new york. the ilo certainly carries out important advisory and administrative functions to the worldwide organization of the labor movement. and i think our continuing and unnecessary refusal to pay our proportionate share of the costs could have undesirable consequences for our role in this vital movement. so i certainly want to express concern that the conferees deleted from the bill the $11 million to pay our dues to this vital international labor organization. i hope the members of the senate will show their opposition. and reject the conference report.
s ecoic policy. i do so. however. in the sincere hope that this will  be the final word. the mathias amendment to the military procurement bill must  be considered in conference and by the house. i hope that it will pass. alternatively. i would support separate legislation which would bring all wages and prices under the authority of a wageprice board. so that group of employees in this country would be discriminated for. or against. in the allotment of personal income. but i can in good conscience vote for wage increases which will benefit only a small portion of our people in the long runand which may have the effect of benefiting one in the long run.
. i am pleased to cosponsor the amendment offered by my distinguished colleague from washington. senator magnuson. unemployment has been a persistent problem in this nation for well over 2 years. as the war in vietnam has wound down. as we have begun to reorder our priorities from military and foreign involvement to the application of funds and techogy to domestic needs. serious dislocations have inevitably occurred. in my own state of massachusetts. 186.000 persons are presently unemployed. and the unemployment rate as a whole has reached 8 percent in the last year. the amendment of the senator from washington is designed to meet this problem. in states where the dislocations have been particularly severespecifically. where unemployment exceeds 6 percentany unemployed person who has exhausted both his federal and state unemployment compensation benefits would be eligible for an additiona. 26 weeks of coverage. with the federal government paying 100 percent of the extended emergency coverage. in these times. unemployment largely results from the changing policies of the federal government. unemployment. in such instances. is  attributable either to the activities of the individual or to the programs and planning of the various companies. it is therefore only just and equitable that the federal government should adopt unemployment policies adequate to the changing needs of the unemployed. i wholeheartedly support this amendment. and urge its adoption.
. salvatore camelio devoted 40 years of his life to the labor movement. his work. and his enthusiasm for it. never ended. he left a lasting and creating mark on the labor movement. millions of men and women benefited greatly from his tireless efforts. to his courageous wife and family. and his multitude of friends. i extend my deepest sympathy.
 and chief operating officer of eastern airlines. outlining what eastern is doing to insure that equal opportunity is more than a hiring policy. i ask unanimous consent that mr. higginbottoms remarks before the black achievers dinner in new york on march 16 be printed in the record.
. i have introduced today legislation to provide many unemployed scientists the opportunity to work in unused laboratory facilities. under this legislation. an officer of scientific manpower would be established in the department of labor. this office would maintain a file of all unfilled and available laboratory space. the office would also supervise the establishment of listings of each scientist who is unemployed or in involuntary early retirement. and who meets all of the membership requirements for the professional society representing his specialty. the director of the office wouldbe authorized to aslgia- scientist to a jartiopating laboratory. subject to acceptance of his research project by the agency in charge of that laboratory. the scientist would be paid a maximum stipend of $700 per month. determined on the basis of his needs and experience. the legislation is designed to permit flexibility in research programs. in order to encourage applicants to work on their own projects to the maximum extent possible. the program would also allow scientists participating in the program an adequate opportunity to continue to seek permanent employment. the unusually high rate of unemployment in the scientific and research communities has created a double problem: unemployment is one side of the coin. the loss of valuable kledge is the other. this bill represents a sound approach to continuing important research projects and providing satisfying employment. i urge the senate to give this proposal its prompt attention. by mr. pearson:
. the people of massachusetts are deeply saddened by the death of a respected and loved public servant. former representative philip j. philbin. of bolton. mass. phil philbin spent the better portion of his adult life in service to the people of the commonwealth and of the nation. he developed an expertise in labor problems through his years as a special counsel to the senate committee on education and labor. as an official of the u.s. department of labor. and as a member of the advisory board of the massachusetts unemployment compensation commission. for 28 years phil philbin served in cong ess with great distinction. rising to the chairmanship of the house armed services committee before his retirement fronm public life in 1970. i was privileged to k phil philbin for many years. and cherished his warm friendship and wise counsel. to his two daughters. and his many friends. i extend my deepest sympathy.
. and they do  currently participate fully in the distribution of federal revenues. the united states assumed responsibility for puerto rico and its people as a result of the spanishamerican war. in 1898. we will  have met our responsibilities. however. until the people of puerto rico enjoy the same standard of living as other american citizens. the puerto ricans have done much to help themselves. per capita income on the island has increased from a bare $297 per year in 1950 to nearly $1.500 per year today. puerto ricos gross annual product has increased in the same time period from $755 million to $4.6 billion. under the administration of gov. luis ferre. health care has been improved and extended. and thousands of classrooms have been constructed for the education of the children of the commonwealth. but even with all these efforts. puerto ricos needs are great. puerto rico has a greater percentage of its people living in poverty. and a greater percentage of its adults unemployed. than any of the 50 states of the union. unemployment on the island is  an unconscionable 11.8 percent. nearly 20 percent of the children in this country living in families with less than $1.000 in income. live in puerto rico. clearly. if these children are to be given the opportunity they deserve as american citizens. puerto rico must receive a greater percentage of federal aid. the legislation presently before us would provide this longneeded opportunity. instead of allocating 4 percent of funds available under oeo title ii to puerto rico. the virgin islands. samoa. and the pacific trust territories. this bill would treat puerto rico as a state for the purposes of computing its share of the funds. and would reserve 2 percent of the total appropriation to the other territories. puerto ricos share of the funds would thus be computed on the basis of: number of public assistance recipients as compared with the other states. average number of unemployed persons as compared with the other states. and the number of related children living with families with income of less than $1.000 as compared with the other states. this system is already being followed with regard to numerous other federal programs. it should certainly be done with regard to the vitally needed educational and jobtraining opportunities. when we consider puerto ricos unique position within our system of government. and its extraordinary needs which are directly related to our national policy. i believe we have choice but to accord puerto rico "statehood status" for the purpose of computing its benefits under this bill.
 annced a 90day freeze on wages and prices. this was followed by the current program of flexible wage and price controls. i think it is important for us to assess the progress we have made in 1 year. the record shows: the consumer price index--often called the "cost of living index"-has increased at an annual rate of 2.7 percent since last august. compared to 3.9 percent registered in the 7 months preceding the freeze. a rate of over 5 and 6 percent during 1969 and 1970. the annual rate of increase for the most recent 3 months is even better2.2 percent. on the wage scale. real spendable weekly earnings for the average american worker have increased at a rate of 4.5 percent during the entire ecoic stabilization program. when considering the 0.8 percent growth these earnings registered during 1970. and the period of virtual stagnation during the previous 6 years. the real growth becomes a remarkable achievement. it is  how much money a worker gets. but how much his family gets for its money that counts. several news articles and editorials have summarized the progress of the ecoic stabilization program. i ask unanimous consent that a representative sampling be printed in the record.
i thank the distinguished senator from new york. as he was talking. i began to think of what. perhaps. is the immediate cause of the conflict. i. for one. have never really been ready to accept the belief that what is taking place in thern ireland in the year 1972 is a religious war. i am mindful of what happened when partition came to ireland in the early 1920s. instead of granting independence to ireland as a whole. the british government gave in to the pressures of its citizens who had migrated to ireland and concentrated in the thern part of the island. the six counties of ulster had basis for a separate existence either in history or geography. they were simply the largest single unit in which the scotch and english protestants constituted a majority. but what is the immediate cause of the conflict. i think it is rooted in a shift in the ecoy. many traditional industries. such as the linen industry. have died out in the rural areas. and there has been much migration from the rural areas into the cities. young catholics and young protestants are coming into competition for jobs. the majority. of course. is protestant. and they are in contr ol. so what has happened is that many of the young catholics are  getting jobs. this. naturally. causes great conflict. i was wondering. as the senator from new york was talking. what could be done to improve the industrial and business climate in thern ieland. we are aware of the friction between catholics and protestants. generally. when there are problems of discrimination in employment. discrimination in housing. discrimination even in the enjoyment of recreational facilities. and the like. we find it rooted. somewhat. in ecoics. i feel that we might. perhaps. look in depth into the possibilities of providing more investment and industry in the area. industry which would employ catholics and protestants without discrimination. this. in my opinion. would begin to alleviate some of the difficult ecoic conditions which i feel are at the root of the conflict.
i thank my distinguished colleague. i quite agree that political equality will end political discrimination. let us hope and pray that the elections will be fair. that there will be discrimination in any of the elections. we all deplore. as we have in the past and will continue to deplore. discrimination and terrorism. we hope that we might begin to see what. if anything. we can do to improve the ecoy of thern ireland. because that is bound to have a very sizable effect upon the expansion. as i see it. in the hiring and promotion of workers within ulster. this has been one of the most serious problems.
. i am pleased to join senators mondale and humphrey in cosponsoring amendment  1675 to h.r. 1. the "social security amendments of 1972." on june 30. the congress upheld its obligation to 28 million americans who had found that social security was  providing them security. we rightly spuf the social security increase from the measure before us and enacted a 20percent acrosstheboard social security benefits increase. those who benefited have expressed their gratitude in thousands of letters i have received and i think in the hundreds and thousands of letters that many of my colleagues have received. yet many beneficiaries rightly point out that the federal government is taking away with one hand what it is providing with the other. elderly beneficiaries who need oldage assistance to supplement their meager social security check. find that their oaa payments are cut back proportionally to this increase. the intent of congress to provide additional security was thus threatened. but last friday we headed off this threat with the adoption of senator cranstons amendmentfor those who live in public housing and. as my colleague from minnesota has just pointed out. who pay rent under the socalled brooke amendment formula who find that their increased benefits are eroded by upward revision in their rent. senators will recall that that amendment set a 25percent limitation on rents. as we found persons who had been paying as much as 50 to 60 percent of their income for rent. enlightened legislation was reported by the committee on banking. housing. and urban affairs. on which my colleague serves as a very distinguished member and who is very much interested in and has performed a great service in this field. to prctect those paying more than 25 percent of their income for rent. but . social security recipients are being assessed more money as a result of the increase in social security. which certainly is contrary. i think. to the spirit if  the letter of the law.
the senator is right. many charges are made in the mail that i receive. and i am sure the same is true of other senators in this field. that we are giving with one hand and taking back with the other. let me say that i commend the administration for initiating its "rent watch" to prevent landlords from taking advantage of the social security increase. should  we in the congress conduct our own rent watch and make sure that local housing authorities do  take advantage of the few extra dollars their elderly tenants are  receiving. the answer is clear: i think that we should. for veterans. who  receive assistance based on their service to our country. the dilemma is the same. what extra income they receive under social security will be undone by a decrease in their veterans pensions. those who  receive food stamps are threatened with a loss of eligibility for this essential assistance. in effect. they may lose more than they have gained by the increase in social security. so it is a net loss to them rather than a gain. as we had expected when we voted the social security increase. the amendment proposed by the senators from minnesota . which i am privileged to cosponsor. expands on the earlier amendment of senator cranston. it simply seeks to carry out the previously expressed intent of congress to increase the monthly cash incomes of social security beneficiaries. our amendment proposes to disregard for the purposes computing veterans benefits. brooke amendment rent levels. and food stamp eligibility. the individual income derived from the social security increase. that is a simple amendment which i think is clear and should be well understood. . this amendment is consistent with and necessary to carry out our intent to increase the incomes of 28 million americans. without this amendment. millions will find the widely acclaimed benefits increase was. in effect. an empty promise. i urge senators to favorably consider this amendment. and i commend the distinguished senators from minnesota for proposing it.
and hew made an indepth study of it. i do  accept the charges that hew is  kledgeable. they are experts in the field. they have watched this day care center program and they k its strengths and its weaknesses. i have great respect for the secretary. elliot richardson. he is an able administrator. i am sure he would  support this if he had  done research and if he did  believe this was the best way to do it. i think that is buttressed by the distinguished junior senator from new york who admits initially he was opposed to the bill and he has come around because of his research.
very well. that is a stronger case. he voted against the bill. and he did research and  believes this is the best way to handle it. so i say this is very. very important legislation and i do  want to prolong the senate on this. i think the debate is important. i have great sympathy with the chairman of the committee. we all do. we k he has money problems. but we recognize the need to take care of these hundreds of thousands of young children of preschool age who need training and care. and this treatment. in many instances that they can only get in a day care center where they have these capabilities.
. i thank the senator from alabama. and here in the senate. we are asked to follow in kind. senate supporters of this bill refused to allow the measure to be referred to the committee with proper jurisdiction over it. the committee on labor and public welfare. by refusing to allow proper consideration of this bill. its supporters denied americans the right to closely examine this legislation and to be heard for or against it. one can argue that the labor and public welfare committee is a graveyard for legislation. the committee has faced up to the issue of busing time and again. the senate has expressed its will on busing on two occasions this year alone. king that the committee would act responsibly. i can only assume that the supporters of this bill feared the revelations that would ensue from its careful scrutiny. so. it is  necessary for those of us who feel it is the senates responsibility to carefully consider important legislation. to discharge this responsibility here in the senate chamber. the american people deserve this opportunity to be apprised of all the facts concerning the socalled equal educational opportunities act of 1972.
. just on the point of my colleague from nebraska at first blush the arguments that the states license doctors and lawyers and accountants and nurses might seem persuasive. but we are  talking here about licensing of professional groups or anything of that kind at all. we do  subsidize lawyers in this country. we do  subsidize doctors in this country. we do  give federal money to many of the different groups that are. quite properly. licensed by the individual states. we are talking about federal money which is being spent for day care centers in day care in various states which have standards and which are taking care of young children under the most deplorable conditions kn. what is the purpose stated. it says: familycare or selfcare goal: to strengthen family life and to achieve and maintain maximum personal independence. selfdetermination. and security in the home. including. for children. the achievement of maximum potential for eventual independent living. and to prevent or remedy neglect. abuse. or exploitation of children. is that rhetoric. or is that a meaningful. purposeful goal which we of the u.s. congress have established. that is what we are talking about here. i did  raise the question of money. that question was raised by the opponents of the proposal. they were the ones who said money was the main issue. that is why i tried to address. and did address. the question to the distinguished senator from minnesota about money. if it is  money. if it is just a question of states rights versus federal rights. how can we. by any means of imagination. try to say at this time that of all the federal money we are putting into this program. we should  establish standards by which these day care centers should be run and operate.
. it is a critical period in our nations history. our people must be willing to exercise exceptional resolve to insure that our fundamental principles of freedom remain inviolate. unfortunately. at a time when the country needs leadership more than ever. death has  taken a holiday. for the third time this month. we have lost an outstanding national leader. the death of senator wayne morse is a tremendous loss. his leadership was of a special kind. he was the personification of integrity. he demonstrated consistently a steadfast commitment to the truth and to what he believed to be just and right. wayne morse served in the u.s. senate with remarkable distinction for 24 years. he was respected as a gifted lawmaker. with a genuine mastery of foreign policy. education. and labor legislation. his devotion to civil rights and civil liberties was unsurpassed. but most of all wayne morse will be remembered for his uncompromising dedication to his many causes. having once established a position on an issue. he would fight tenaciously to persuade others of its correctness. matter how insurmountable the opposition appeared to be. the most outstanding example of this was senator morses stand on the vietnam war. along with senator ernest gruening. senator morse cast one of the two votes opposing the gulf of tonkin resolution. and party labels did  intimidate wayne morse. in words that i hope will forever echo across this land. he once stated: i have intention of placing party above country. senator wayne morse had a unique dignity. he was a man of force. intelligence. mission. and courage. such men are rarein any era. the senate will long remember the senator from oregon. and the country will sorely miss his exemplary leadership.
. the current issue of effort. the publication of the committee for full funding of education programs. carrieds an informative and comprehensive article on the impoundment process that. i believe. merits reading. i ask unanimous consent that the article. by roy h. millenson. until recently miity staff director of the senate committee on labor and public welfare. and  staff director for education and library affairs of the associaation of american publishers. be printed in the record.
. on may 2 of last year. i placed in the congressional record a financial disclosure statement. and i intend to do so for the remainder of my service in the senate. this is my second annual statement. which covers the calendar year of 1974 and will be largely repetitive. first. i am  engaged in the practice of law.  am i associated with a law firm. second. i do  have an interest in a private business firm. third. i received as earned income my annual senate salary of $42.500 and fees for speaking engagements in the amount of $28.750. fourth. i received rental income before expenses from my marthas vineyard. mass.. property in the amount of $4.875. fifth. i received rental income before expenses from my st. martin. french west indies. property in the amount of $8.200. sixth. i have had change in my stockholdings since my report of may 2. 1974. and i realized $32 interest income from these securities. seventh. i continue to own the following real property: my home at 535 beacon street. newton. mass. two houses and land at 3234 nashawena park. oak bluffs. marthas vineyard. mass. a houselabatterieat friars bay. st. martin. french west indies. together with 10 acres of land in riley hill. a duplex apartmentcooperativeat 2500 virginia avenue. washington. d.c. eighth. i paid federal income tax in the amount of $10.460 and commonwealth of massachusetts income tax in the amount qf $2.499.
the labor department has been incorrectly labeling serious violations involving death and severe injury as serious violations. since citing violations to label them serious often required rather lengthy legal hearings. this amendment. as i understand it. would. therefore. limit even the most serious work hazards to penalties of $50. originally the senator had it at $100.  it would be limited to $50. is that what the senator intends to do.
i can agree more fully with the distinguished chairman of the labor committee. i am aware of the new procedures in the department of labor and what they are doing. and i perfectly agree with the senator that this matter. if it comes up. should be coming up before his committee and there should be hearings on it. let us have some proposals and recommendations made by the labor committee before the senate acts on it. i think it is clearly legislation on an appropriations bill. it just does  belong on this bill. but apparently. because of the way in which the amendment was drafted. we have an informal ruling from the parliamentarian that a point of order would  lie. if there had  been that ruling i am sure our distinguished chairman woulc have called for a point of order before this time. but. at any rate. i think the discussion has been a good one. it has been a healthy one. and if the senator will put his report in the record and enable us to either have a motion to table or maybe even some agreement with the senator from louisiana. we could move on.
it would appear that many of our colleagues. rather than going before the proper authorizing committees. are coming before the senate on an appropriations bill and trying to legislate on our appropriations bill. what that means. . is that there are hearings. we do  k what the effect of this proposal would be. we do  k what equity is involved in it. as has been pointed out. 35 states do reduce unemployment benefits. based upon the amount of the retirement benefits an individual receives. that means 15 states do . as we view this amendment. seemingly. it would discriminate against federal pensioners since private pensioners still would be able to draw unemployment benefits in addition to their retirement benefits. i could go on with questions that could be raised. and i am sure that the distinguished and very able senator from oklahoma could answer many of these questions. but our committee is  geared to accept proposals of this nature without having the appropriate hearings. moreover. this is  the proper committee before which it should come. i assume that the proper committee in this case would be the committee on finance. i believe that the committee on finance would have the jurisdiction to hear the proposal made by the distinguished senator from oklahoma and then act upon it. then. the senate would be the final arbiter. but in this case we are being asked to accept an amendment which at least on its face attempts to save money and in that regard it is a money bill. but i really think that a point of order would lie against this amendment. if the senator reallv wants a vote on this amendment. i will raise a point of order and have a ruling from the chair. i have  raised the point of order. if the senator really feels that he wants an up and down vote on this amendment. i will raise a point of order and have the chair rule as to whether or  the point of order would lie with respect to this amendment. the chairman and i are going to serve ice that for the duration of the consideration of this bill we are going to start raising points of order. because we feel that the practice of legislating on this appropriations bill has gone too far. and we are  going to go along with it any longer.
i would like to make one statement and then be ready for the vote. the federal employees compensation is federally funded. however. with federally funded extended benefits  up to 65 weeks and the special unemployment assistance program. state law governs most eligibility rules. including treatment of retirement income. that takes me back to the point i made earlier about oklahoma having the right. and easily. to change its law if it sees fit to do so. and other states as well. i agree with the senator from oklahoma. i think we have debated this at great length. he has asked for the yeas and nays.
the employer. as i understand it. and the chairman of the labor committee can correct me if i am wrong. there is an appeal to the area director first and then it goes to an osha review commission and eventually to the courts.
 i do  say that at all. i do  imply. when i say something. i say it. i do  imply. i merely said the senator from massachusetts offered in good faith an amendment to place $1 billion into the schools of the cities. of course. that was objected to so that it could never be brought up. in this new amendment we are taking some $300 million out of health. labor and unemployment prograins. which are so sorely needed. and putting the money into title i education programs for urban schools. they need money. i do  disagree with tha. we in the committee have tried to give them all the money we could within fiscal constraints. but. . it is a sad day if. after the senate acted as it did yesterday. it comes back  and tries to salve its conscience by adopting amendments such as this one which has been introduced by my friend and colleague. the distinguished senator from west virginia
. on ember 7. - spoke to the massachusetts state labor council in boston and discussed the problems most crucial to labor today. i share with our colleagues my remarks before the council about labor. the state of the ecoy. and the need for an effective full employment policy. i ask unanimous consent that my statement be printed in the record.
 for future unemployment benefits. i feel that the conferees have reported a balanced bill for hew as well as the other agencies funded through this chapter of the supplemental and i urge that the conference agreement be accepted by the full senate.
. i am introducing an amendment to h.r. 9852 at the request of the secretary of housing and urban development. the amendment would clarify the authority of the secretary to establish. equip and operate a day care center within the hud headquarters building for the purpose of serving children of hud employees. during the past several years. hud officials and employees have discussed the feasibility of establishing a day care center program for employees children. both secretary hills and her predecessor secretary lynn have expressed support for the establishment of such a center. the amendment would facilitate the establishment of the contemplated day care center. the center would be located in facilities designed and furbished especially for the purpose. the conversion. equipping. and maintenance of space in which the center would operate would require the expenditure of some federal funds. but the centers program is intended to be selfsustaining. it is intended that the establishment of the center will be undertaken with funds already appropriated for general departmental administrative expenses. and that further appropriation will be necessary for that purpose. to support the centers program. the amendment would authorize the charging of appropriate fees to employees and any others whose children might be served. it is also intended that the proposed center will be operated on a license basis under which an existing profit hud employee corporation established to aid in the development and operation of the center would enter into a management contract with a professional management firm. i believe the amendment is controversial in that it would allow hud to establish the type of day care facility already in operation at a number of other federal agencies. including hew and nasa. i hope my colleagues will join me in supporting this amendment.
. much of iiiy time and efforts during my years in this body have been devoted to legislation that prctezts and furthers the interests of ozr children. i have vated for legisiation that provided money for daycare services because i wanted services that benefited children. i will . however. suppcrt the e xendlture of funds for lowcluality care. care which one researcher has found results in "general intellectual retardation. retardation in language functions. and social and personality disturbances. chiefly disturbances centering around the capacity to establish and maintain close personal relationships." our reluctance to enforce adequate daycare standards will merely increase the cycle of dependency. poverty. and welfare resulting from poor daycare services. we do  want the cheap. inadequate custodial day care that results in psychologically disturbed and dizoriented children. and. of course. we do  want the kinds of physical ac.dents and hazards that can take place when the caregiver is overworked and has too many children to keep. for years. we have reemphasized time after time the need for federal requirements in the face of the states refusal to comply with adequate standards. the states have had time to comply and they have . it is past time to conjecture why the states have  complied. it is past time to discuss again the research findings that my colleagues in this body. including senators buchley. jwvits. mondale. nelson. and ribicoff. have inserted in the record or discussed on the floor. what we need  is a clear. unequivocal message that the federal quality minimum standards must be met. what we need  is an authoritative statement that state can reduce its licensing requirements b.ow the present level of requirements. the tragedy of the kepone poisoning points out the deficiencies of poor state enforcement. such dangerous enforcement can exist in human services as well. as we all k. state enforcement of standards for the care of the aged has been disastrous. unless we stand firm on daycare services. state enforcement of standards for the care of the young may well be equally tragic. we may witness states providing poor custodial day care rather than humane. and productive day care. for these reasons. i ask you to joinl me in voting against the packwcod amendment.
they may be hiring the wrong inspectors or making them think they have more power than they have. it may have something to do with the type of individual hired to make the inspection. we do  want to change the law. we should change the administration of the law.
. for the last 2 years i have placed in the record. a financial disclose statement and i intend to do so for the remainder of my service in the senate. this third annual statement covers the calendar year of 1975 and will be largely repetitive. first. i am  engaged in the practice of law.  am i associated with a law firm. second. i do  have an interest in a private business firm. third. i received as earned income my senate salary of $43.025 and hoariums for speaking engagements in the amount of $9.100. fourth. i received rental income before expenses from my marthas vineyard. mass. property in the amount of $4.500. fifth. i received rental income before expenses from my st. martin. french west indies. property in the amount of $3.600. sixth. the only change in my stockholdings since my last report has been the sale of 200 shares of stock acquired in 1968. in which i profited $571. i realized a $6 dividend and interest income of $85 from those remaining securities. seventh. my real estate holdings are the same. eighth. i paid federal income tax in the amount of $2.764. and commonwealth of massachusetts income tax in the amount of $1.841.
the distinguished chairman of the committee was here and heard everything said by the distinguished senator from nebraska ( heard a mouthful. i think the message is very clear to him and to all members of his committee. it is also very clear to the secretary of labor and the department of labor. that is the assurance i give to my colleagues.
. i would like to ask the senator if he will  reconsider that. it is a mi. but i consider a very vital. technical change in the code. this clears up a section of the code which defines "qualified" or low or moderate income housing. i k the senator does  want other changes to come up. i do  think this in any way affects the right of anyone else to bring up any additional amendment pertaining to that particular section. but it is so vital i would hope the senator would let this amendment be accepted by the committee.
. many of us have been concerned about these day dare centers. religious institutions. and homes. i have many of them in my state. as there are many in the state of rhode island. and in many other states ds well. the house language could have prohibited money going to these homes. but the gravel amendment. as amended. says that "any prohibition against discrimination on the basis of religion. or any other exemption from such prohibition. as provided in the civil rights act of 1964 or title viii of the civil rights act of 1968 shall also apply to any such" revenuesharing program or activity. this language corrects the possible problem in the house language and puts back the language we have in the existing law. and therefore. the day care centers and religious homes would  be adversely affected.
. i support the javits amendment and urge that it be adopted. this measure would enable puerto rico. guam. and the virgin islands to participate in the supplemental security income program. benefits. however. would  be pavable until october 1. 1977. because the social security administrtion reefs lpsdin time to prepare for the administration of the ssi program in these three jurisdictions. the house included this provision in the supplemental security income amendments of 1976. h.r. 8911. and i strongly believe that the senate should take identical action. lowincome aged. blind. and disabled persons in puerto rico. guam. and the virgin islands  receive payments under a formula based upon payment levels in the old adult assistance programs. this federal formula has  been updated since 1967. the assistance payments are therefore exceedingly low and totally inadequate. average monthly payments in puerto rico are  $18.91 for the aged. $13.66 for the blind. and $14.01 for the disabled. the comparable figures for guam are $68.96 for elderly persons. $85.50 for blind individuals. and $74.46 for disability recipients. in the virgin islands. the average monthly payments amount to $54.20 for the aged. $56.29 for the blind. and $54.22 for the disabled. in sharp contrast. the average monthly federal ssi payment is  $95.15. moreover. the federal ssi program guarantees all aged. blind. and disabled persons a minimum monthly income of $167.80 for qualifying individuals and $251.80 for eligible couples. and these income standards include a costofliving adjustment mechanism. on the other hand. the maximum benefit an aged person could receive in puerto rico would be $21.60 with costofliving adjustments. aged. blind. and disabled persons in puerto rico. guam. and the virgin islands. however. do  have this protection for their exceedingly low benefits. under the javits amendment. benefit levels would be determined on the basis of the per capita income in puerto rico. guam. and the virgin islands to the state with the lowest per capita income: mississippi. this would assure aged. blind. and disabled recipientq a minimum income of: $91.20 for qualifying individuals and $136.80 for eligible couples in puerto rico: $153.90 for single persons and $230.90 for couples in guam. and $167.80 for individuals and $251.80 for couples in the virgin islands. i support the javits amendment because it would raise assistance levels for lowincome aged. blind. and disabled persons in puerto rico. guam. and the virgin islands to more realistic levels. and. it would eliminate the longstanding discriminatory treatment which has existed for years for these u.s. citizens. many individuals from thee ilands are forced to come to the united states because of the deoressed ecoic conditions in their homelandsparticularly in puerto rico. unemnloyment in puerto rico. for example. is  about 20 percent. or almost three times the rate in the united states. with this high unemployment rate. it is difficultif  impossiblefor aged. blind. and disabled persons to find employment. and here we are often talking about deep extremes in poverty where some people have virtually income at all. in addition. the costofliving is typically high for these three islands because most of the basic necessities. such as food. must be imported. many of the inhabitants of these islands have served us admirably in defending our nation and in other ways. these lowincome aged. blind. and disabled u.s. citizens should be entitled to sufficient assistance payments in order that they can meet their basic needs. for these reasons. i reaffirm my support for the javits amendment.
. ever since the social security- program was first presented to congress in 1935. a major problem has been what rules to use in determining when an individual has retired and should qualify for benefits. when the original act passed the house of representatives there was restriction on an individuals earnings because. the historians of the program say. the house drafters did  k how to go about writing such a provision. the senate. however. went ahead and added a prohibition against paying benefits to an individual for any month in which he "received wages with respect to regular employment." this year1977an individual can earn as much as $3.000 a year and still get all of his social security benefits. if he earns more than $3.000. his benefit is reduced by $1 for each $2 of earnings in excess of $3.000. however. he will get a benefit for any months in which he earns more than $250. the exempt amount  increases each year at the same rate average wages rise. however. the test itself remains unsatisfactory. the minimum wage for a 40hour week  amounts to $398.67 a month. it would seem that a reasonable test might permit an individual to work for at least 1 week a month for something a little better than the minimum wage. therefore. i am proposing that the test be increased to $5.200 a year. this would mean that an individual who earned over $5.200 in a year would have his benefits reduced by $1 for each $2 of earnings above $5.200 and that he could continue to receive a benefit for any month in which he earned more than $433.33. this would mean one full. 40hour week each month for $2.50 an hour. 20 cents an hour more than the present minimum wage. enactment of this legislation would mean that in the first full year about 1.7 million people would be paid about $1.8 billion in benefits which they will lose under present law. this legislation is reasonable and fair. i urge my colleagues to support it. by mr. brooke:
i am sure there are pockets of high unemployment. but the unemployment rate for the state of texas that is published is 5.2 percent. like my distinguished colleague. i can find many pockets of unemployment in my own state with much higher rates than my states average. i am thinking of lawrence and haverhill. fall river. plymouth. and gloucester. to name a few. yet. the use of these pockets of high unemployment is  dispositive. we are discussing the distribution of these funds by state.
i am sure the same can be said for other states with relatively low unemployment rates but with pockets of higher population density like colorado. th carolina. kentucky. and tennessee. on the other hand. some states with overall unemployment rates that run 2 to 3 percent above the national average are harmed by this approach. my state is one and i think the state of the distinguished senator from new york unquestionably is one. and connecticut. and there are many others. which suffer under this proposed formula. and these states. which already bear a disproportionate share of unemployment. and the concomitant costs for unemployment compensation benefits. welfare payments. employment. and other social services counseling will be even further harmed by the very remedy designed to ease the burdens of chronically high unemployment if this amendment is adopted. but thisanalysis of unemployment ratesof course. does  even begin to measure the social costs borne by these states. those costs may be less quantifiable. but are etheless real. social costs. caused and exascerbated by the frustration. anxiety. and despair which results from the fruitless search for employment. cry out for relief. in the name of equity and in light of the clear purpose of this legislation. we must transcend our sectional interests and resoundingly defeat any formula which does  consider. as a component. the debilitating and severe unemployment which has in part fueled our national ecoic crisis. . i want to conclude my statement by again saying i hope my colleagues will  be parochial. but will really look at the facts in this case. the committee has come up with a very good. sound compromise. which does  really hurt any of the states in the nation. it gives the most equitable distribution formula which can be conceived. it was cut down somewhat by the durkin amendment earlier this morning. but it is still the most equitable formula that we will consider today. as the senator from connecticut has said. we must come to the day when we have equitable formulas.  only in the public works jobs programs but also in community development grants. in unemployment summer job programs for youth. ceta and all along the line. we have to develop formulas that do  really impair the various states in any section of this country. i think the formula this committee has conceived is that kind of formula. i must regretfully say to my distinguished friend from pennsylvania that i hope his formula is defeated and that we accept the committee formula.
i regret very deeply that once again there is a need for congress to address the issue of emergency unemployment compensation benefits. i regret the human costs that these extensions represent: the loss of hope. the lack of income. and the loss of dignity and pride. i regret also the emous fiscal impact that these continued extensions have on the deepening federal deficit. taxpayers are increasingly restive as we again and again expand the federal commitment in terms of dollars. bureaucracy. and magnitude. and yet. while i understand the political difficulties which are posed by the advocacy of large federal programs. i believe that a true emergency exists. in my own state of massachusetts. for example. unemployment has consistently been 2 to 3 points above the national average. at this very moment the unemployment rate in massachusetts is hovering at 9.5 percent. we have recourse but to accept our responsibility in this context of chronic unemployment and to vote for the much needed benefits in a manner which reflects our awareness that these unprecedented high levels of unemployment will  soon leave us. and that is why i must dissent from the senate finance committees recommendation and support senator javits amendment which will give aher year of extended benefits as well as allowing a 3month phaseout period. it is my strong belief that this amendment more accurately reflects the realities of our ecoic situation and it allows us to reflect more carefully and more thoroughly on what our longterm response to systemic unemployment must be. i hope that the senate will  succumb to the politically expedient recommendation of a mere 6month extension. i hope that we will  be faced with the specter of piecemeal extensions again and again and again. defeat of the javits amendment would virtually insure that 6 months from  we will be back again extending benefits unless there is a marked and pronced upturn in our nations ecoy. while i. like all of us in this chamber. hope for better times. i think it is unrealistic to expect that those times will be with us in a scant 6 months. i urge upon my colleagues this point of view and urge that we adopt the javits amendment.
if i may. the senator from utah has said that we ought to work in the private sector. i just want to show him that this bill contains money to stimulate the private sector as well. we have provided $120 million for the socalled hire program aimed at persuading large corporations to hire and train young veterans. the fund will support a 12month program building up to 60.000 slots by a year from . i just want the senator to k that we did take cognizance of that in this appropriation bill.
 1. yes. the problem is being corrected. but.  2. we are saying that. at the present level of 310.000. the ceta program does  have an impact which would satisfy the senator from utah and did . obviously. satisfy the washington post. that is why we are going to 725.000 jobs. if it remains at 310.000 slots. where the senator from pennsylvania would have it remain. it still would  have sufficient impact upon this high unemployment situation in which we find ourselves.
that is correct. two. that even though the human resources committee has as the authorizing committee the primary oversight responsibility. the senate appropriations committee also feels very responsible insofar as oversight is concerned.
we are concerned with oversight of our appropriations. we can give the senator further assurance from the appropriations committee. we have on the floor all parties concerned. we have the chairman and the ranking member of the human resources committee. the chairman of the appropriations committee. we have the ranking miity member of the appropriations committee. we have the chairman of the laborhew appropriations subcommittee. and the ranking miity member on that subcommittee. so we have all of the parties here. i presume by their silence they give assent at least to the fact they will do their job in proper oversight. i hope the senator from utah will  prevail on this amendment. and if he does  prevail on this amendment. he will at least have some assurance that there will be oversight concerning the kind of abuses he has brought to the attention of the senate. i think he has performed a great service in doing so. if the abuses are  eliminatedand we will trythey will be abated. i think the legislative record he has made is certainly a signal to the labor department about how strongly  only the senator from utah feels but how strongly we all feel about this matter.
i think it is fair to say. in defense of the program. even in the gao report. that the ceta program has done some wonderful things. a lot has been accomplished by it. i can sit in the senate chamber and hear it called a program that has been totally ineffective because it has  been. it has been a good program. we all admit that there have been some abuses in the programthere is question about thatand that they should be corrected. the human resources committee. as i pointed out earlierthe senator may  have been on the floorhas done this through changes in title vi. so they have done their job. i also pointed out that the committee on appropriations has had oversight. as to the ceta program  having been effective. i refer the distinguished senator from california to the fact that ceta has enabled expansion of existing services. according to gao. i could go on and on indicating what has been done by the ceta program. i do  want the senator to feel that this has been a totally ineffective program and that  we want to double the mistakes we made in the past. if we were doing that. i assure the senator that we would  be voting for it. we would  be appropriating for it.
. i k the senator shares my view that aid needs an infusion of new bloodof young people. full of energy and ideas. willing to work on these programs for the poor abroad. curiously. the foreign assistance act puts a tight lid on the number of young people just entering aid. section 625(d) (2). enacted in the early 1960s.says that more than 50 foreign service officers just hired by aid may serve in washington. and for a period  to exceed 2 years. this was intended in 1961 to put a limit on aids desire to hire new top level people. it  serves to obstruct aids efforts to hire young people at the bottom. over a year ago. aid resumed hiring young people in an international development intern program. it had over 1.500 applications. many with masters degrees. peace corps experience. et cetera. only 35 were accepted. the law sets a limit of there is similar limit in the law on the number of established. senior foreign service officers who may serve in washington or how long. i am told that at least one top grade officer has been assigned to washington for the last 10 years. the law restricts only those entering the agency. and at this time that means the lower level. the new blood the agency needs. i suggest we strike these restrictive provisions. we should tell aid to get on with hiring and training young people in a reasonable fashion to meet the needs of the future. the committee can exercise to oversight function to see that this is done and  abused. perhaps a report 6 months from  would be useful. aid is planning to request such a change for fiscal year 1979. when the foreign relations committee will be reexamining the entire act. why wait for over a year to hire the needed new blood. the amendment would strike from section 625(d) (2) the provision restricting the number to 50. i have discussed this with the distinguished floor manager of the bill. the distinguished senator from minnesota. and the distinguished ranking miity member. the distinguished senator from new jersey. and it is my understanding that they are willing to accept the amendment.
 is looking for some places to cut back. all i am saying is do  do so here.  on the services to disadvantaged children. when i made that offer to the distinguished senator from missouri which the senator from new york. i think reluctantly. agreed to go along withas he serves as the ranking member of the human resources committee which is the authorizing committee for this legislationit seemed to me  to be just a symbolic gesture. and i assure the senator it was  a symbolic gesture. it was a good faith attempt to try to find some way in which we could cut back without hurting too much. but i fear if we go back. either under the senator from missouris amendment or the amendment which he would like the chairman of the subcommitteethe manager of this billto offer. we might get hurt in a conference with the house and end up even further back than the house level. that they could come in and accept the senate version of the bill which. i think. would be disastrous. therefore. i would hope the senator from washington. our distinguished chairman. would  offer that amendment. i would be compelled to vote against it and ask for a rollcall vote on that. and i think the senator understands why.
. for the last 3 years. i have placed in the record a financial disclosure statement and i intend to do so for the remainder of my service in the senate. this fourth annual statement covers the calendar year of 1976 and will be largely repetitive. first. i am  engaged in the practice of law.  am i associated with a law firm. second. i do  have an interest in a private business firm. third. i received as earned income my senate salary of $44.474 and hoaria for speaking engagements in the amount of $18.000. fourth. i received rental income before expenses from my st. martin. french west indies. property in the amount of $2.800. fifth. i realized a stock dividend income of $24 and a bond interest income of $85. sixth. there has been change in my stockholdings since my last report. seventh. there has been change in my real estate holdings since my last report. eighth. i paid federal income tax in the amount of $12.153 and commonwealth of massachusetts income tax in the amount of $2.932.
. these amendments have  only the support bf the carter administration but also of labor and public interest groups. i ask unanimous consent that letters from the united auto workers. the sierra club. the environmental action. and the national wildlife federation. be printed in the record following my remarks. i also ask unanimous consent that the full text of the amendments and accompanying explanations be printed as well.
. when the senator from th carolina for whom i have the greatest respect. called up this amendment. he and i debated this issue on this floor hour after hour. day after day. never at any time have either of us ever taken advantage of one aher. and i hope the day will never come when we do. i was really shocked when i heard the senator from th carolina call up this amendment. apparently the senator from th carolina did  understand the agreement as i understood it and misrepresented it to the distinguished chairman of the subcommittee. senator magnuson. i would hope that the senator from th carolina would  press his amendment. i would hope that we would be able to act on this. many senators who relied on this have already left the senate chamber. if they have  left the city. i do  k who they are or how many they are. but it would be a sort of breach to them if this matter were  disposed of in the manner in which we had agreed that it would be disposed of. i do  think that the position of the senator from th carolina would be in any way impaired by this. let me just repeat what i said to him earlier. the continuing resolution. which we are suggesting. would carry with it the hyde language in the 1977 appropriations act and it would be for 30 days. which means that it would expire on october 31 because it would be retroactive to october 1. in addition thereto. the concurrence of the house with an amendment would. in effect. just say to the house that we reject your language but we submit additional language which had been drafted by the distinguished chairman of the subcommittee. senator magnuson. for the house conferees to consider. then presumably next week we could go back to the conference. with the house of representatives. still able to reject that language and submit additional language to us. so hing would be gained at all by the language of the senator from th carolina other than possibly to embarrass the senate in its position. so i would hope that the senator would withdraw this amendment and let us go forward with a continuing resolution. let the employees of hew and labor be paid. with this assuranceand i offer him this assurancethat the position that he espoused will  be in any way injured when we go to conference. the house of representatives will be able to vote up or down on any language that we would propose to them. and if they are consistent with what they have done in the past. they most certainly will reject that language and send additional language back to us. hopefully. we can compromise this matter and get it over with. this is a major piece of legislation. a major appropriations bill. i need  tell the senator it is the largest appropriations bill that we have to deal with. there are many people.  just the employees. but recipients as well. with whom we are concerned. all of the health money. all of the education money. all the welfare money. and all the labor money is tied up in this bill for fiscal 1978. so we really do have a serious matter before us. and in good conscience i ask the distinguished senator. my colleague from th carolina. if he would seriously consider withdrawing his amendment and allow us to go forward with the continuing resolution which does harm at all. as i say again. to his position.
i thank the distinguished floor manager. obviously. the producers in this country have suffered. our balance of trade has suffered. u.s. unemployment levels are extremely high. of course. that has prompted me to propound this question to the senator. i would be pleased to have any response that the distinguished senator from idaho may have.
. in recent weeks a growing number of observers have cautioned against "optimistic assumptions" regarding the "conversion to democracy" professed by various communist parties in western europe. an increased awareness exists of the danger communist parties in france. italy. and portugal pose to the fabric of democracy in western europe and the stability of the nato alliance. the cornerstone of american foreign policy for over 30 years. two recent articles. one by claire sterling in the washington post. the other by edwin yoder writing in the star. offered perceptive analyses of the complexities besetting those of our allies who are challenged by assertive communist parties. the sterling article points out that the decision by the communist party of italy (pci) to precipitate the crisis that led to the fall of the andreotti government was  primarily motivated by a concern for the italian people. but rather resulted from a pci fear of loss of influence. the andreotti government had made some progress in addressing the ecoic and social ills of the country and could. possibly. have been setting the stage for an erosion of communist power. moreover. the pci was motivated. apparently. by the need to prove its bona fides to the radicals on the left who were charging that the pci had become hing more than social democrats. the pci. in effect. was being charged as selling out to the christian democrats. related to the above was the pci reaction to the growing realization in italy that it could  deliver the working class in the effort to bring stability to the italian labor scene. to the extent the socalled progressive elements in the pci leadership had sought to act responsibly in giving de facto support to the andreotti governments efforts to decrease the instability of the italian ecoy and social environment. they had been attacked by radical labor elements. alienated leftwing students and the hardline stalinist elements in the pci who continue to have major and. likely. controlling influence over the pci. confronted by such pressure the leadership front of the pci buckled and demanded full membership in the italian cabinet as a price for any help in meeting the multiple crises of italy. in doing so. they were fully aware that they might precipitate the disintegration of italian society and a possible civil conflict. it does  take much imagination to surmise that many elements in the pci would find such a development acceptable. the yoder articles also addresses itself to the democratic conversion claim. the author offers a persuasive refutation to that claim accepted far too readily by many in this country and elsewhere. he points out that the communist parties in western europe certainly do  exhibit the least degree of democracy within their party structures and that it takes a blind leap of faith to assume that they are. nevertheless. irrevocably committed to democratic procedures. as he states: if the "eurocommunists" are  themselves internally democratic. why expect them to observe parliamentary niceties when they are longer expedient. why. indeed. the author also points out that on matters of substance. there is evidence to justify the view that the communists of western europe diverge in any significant degree from espousal of soviet foreign policy undertakings. he quotes jeanfrancois revel to the effect that. . .  once since 1975 has a western communist party adopted . .. a reserved or critical attitude towards any russian foreign policy. i personally find the arguments put forward by these two authors to be in conformity with a realistic appraisal of the dangers inherent in the growth of influence of the communist parties in western europe. i believe their articles merit careful consideration and. therefore. ask unanimous consent that the yoder and sterling articles be printed in the record.
. i believe that the benefits of legislation authorizing a hud day care center should be made available on an equitable basis where sufficient interest is shown at hud regional. field. and area offices. i therefore urge your support in the adoption of this amendment.o
i certainly agree with everything that the distinguished senator from louisiana said when he offered this amendment. of course. the  1 issue in the country today is inflation. everyone is concerned about inflation. but this amendment. it seems to me. goes directly at what the distinguished chairman of this committee has been saying: that this matter has  been heard by the appropriations committee at all. we have held hearings on this amendment. we do  k what the real impact of it would be. the senator from arkansas. for whom i have the greatest respect and admiration. is a member of our full committee. from what i see here. if this amendment were accepted. even next year the cotton gin industry would only be required to inform workers of the dangers and have workers fill out a questionnaire. is this really going to have the effect that the senator from arkansas thinks it is going to have. is it really going to have that kind of inflationary impact. what will be the effect upon the workers. as i understand it. the distinguished chairman of the human resources committee. who is here. has annced that his committee will commence new osha hearings on october 3 of this year. the complex issue of cotton dust standards. it seems to me. should be addressed by that authorizing committee and  as legislation on an appropriations bill. the senator is asking us to accept this amendment. and it might be a very good amendment. i do  k. i do  k that much about the cotton gin industry. i k what the senator from louisiana has said. and i respect what he has to say. certainly. the senator from arkansas is kledgeable about the industry. but here we are. on an appropriations bill. on a matter on which we have had absolutely hearings. and we are being asked to take action. matter how it is written. this still is legislation on an appropriations bill. perhaps the senator from arkansas has the answer to that. does he really believe that this is the place for this amendment. that is the point i really raise.
should we legislate in a vacuum. what would be the impact if we did wait. what would be the problem. as the senator from louisiana and the senate from arkansas see it. if we waited for the human resources committee to hold its hearing. which i understand is to be october 3.
yes. then the senator is asking us to act upon something on which the chairman of the committees on human resources says he is going to have hearings on october 3. we just do  k yet what those hearings will produce. the senator is saying he will  give us time. how much time will he give if they have come up with this regulation. i think this is why the chairman challenges the figure the senator gave and asked for the authority. but  because of questioning the authority. but the secretary of labor promulgated these regulations. we did  do it. he did. why would he do so. king what the inflationary impact would be. u.nless one of two things. he either thought inflationary impact was less than it is. or he thought the inflationary impact was de minimus compared to the health of the workers at this time.
e of those things the senator has just enumerated would i like to see occur. i would  like to see the cotton industry put on its knees by these regulations. or overregulations. or regulations that do  need to be promulgated at all. i certainly have great sympathy for what american industry is up against at the present time. these are very difficult days. question about it. to come along with unreasonable. unworkable regulations. to make it unbearable. so industry can operate. to put literally thousands of people out of business is certainly something i k this congress does  want to do. . what do the senator from arkansas and the senator from louisiana. the droers of this amendment. think we ought to do under these circumstances. bearing in mind that the senator from arkansas is a member of the committee himself. that we have had absolutely hearings. that we have to rely. to a certain extent. upon what the secretary tells us. and the fact that these regulations have been promulgated. we have present on the senate floor the chairman of the human resources committee. he is going to hold hearings october 3. what can we do in that interim period. what would the senator suggest we do in that interim period short of passing the senator from louisianas amendment as it has been proposed to us.
it is my understanding. from what the distinguished senator from new jersey. the chairman of the human resources committee. has just stated. that the secretary has the authority to stay the implementation of these regulations. if the facts presented today are as the senator indicated only the inflationary impact. but the really serious. burdensome problems to the cotton industrywhy can we  then ask the secretary to stay implementation until such time as the human resources committee has had a hearing on this matter if he finds that to be the fact.
next calendar year. we obviously could  get to it this year because even the hearing by the human resources committee would  begin until october 3 and. as i understand it. there is a possibility that the congress might adjourn sine die on october 14. so we would be talking about the next congress that would have to act upon it.
. in view of this compromise. i want to commend the distinguished senator from kansas for working this out with the chairman of the human resources committee who has authorizing jurisdiction over this legislation. it certainly would avoid. as the senator from kansas said. many votes. and though he presumed. and he may be right. that the senate may have adopted it. i think this compromise is in the best interests of all concerned. since the chairman has agreed to accept it. i would be very pleased to accept it. and i so move.
i certainly admire and respect the senators courage in what he has said. if he has that kind of situation existing in his city. and i regret to find that he does. then i think he is certainly within his right to do everything he can to alleviate that condition. however. i want to point out to the senator when he talks about 80percent funding. that refers to capital assistance. when a city wants to construct a rapid transit system. they are eligible for 80 percent. but this amendment does  direct itself at all to that 80percent fundix. i just wanted the senator to be sure. we are here talking about operating expenditures. and that alone. cleveland gets less than 50 percent of its operating expenses. it gets about 25 percent. which is considerably less than other cities. the reason is that the section 5 formula. under which we are working. is an inequitable formula. i k the senator was  here during the debate. but the point i was trying to makeand the senator has every right to support the amendment of the senator from maine to delete this from the billis that all the committee tried to do in adopting this provision was to bring equity into this whole question of operating deficits. it established two caps: a 50percent cap and a onethird cap for operating expenses. it also would require a matching local 50 percent. the cities would have to come up with 50 percent themselves. and it would have to be cities. obviously that were committed to the program and that really were suffering. cleveland may have a unique problem. cleveland has had several unique problems. as i have been reading recently. and i sympathize with that city. i assure the senator that this has hing to do with the 80 percent. if they have been misusing that. if they have been hiring consultants they do  need. that should be corrected.  only in cleveland but also anywhere we find it. we can waste federal taxpayers dollars or local taxpayers dollars. if they are getting 25 percent under the existing formula. most of the money they are wasting. as the senator from ohio has said. is coming out of the local taxpayers property taxes. i would assume. rather than from the federal government. because they are net getting it from the federal government. i think that should be brought to the attention of the gover and the officials in the city of cleveland. but that is  my concern. my concern is merely to point out to the senator that we are  concerned here with capital. we are concerned with operating deficits and an attempt to bring some equity into a situation which is inequitable at this time and has been inequitablenamely. the section 5 formula. this amendment would try to do exactly that and would do exactly that. even though. as the senator from maine pointed out. it could potentially have some budgetary problems.
. the present situation jeopardizes the constitutional rights of thousands of congressional employees. just because a person accepts employment on capitol hill does  mean that that individual accepts secondclass citizenship. that individual is still entitled to due process and equal protection of the law. in the case of davis against passman which was heard by the fifth circuit court of appeals. the court recognized that discriminatory acts by members of congress create "a conflict of transcendental importance between the rights of the individual and the rights of a representative." however. the court concluded thatalthough members of congress have some insulation  wrapped around ordinary mortals. the conflicting interest must be harmonized  dichotomized. the senate has  been totally insensitive to these issues and has responded to some of the legitimate criticisms that have been raised. during the consideration of senate resolution 110. the senate code of official conduct. the senate adopted senate rule 50. the rule expressly prohibits the senate from employment discrimination on the basis of "race. religion. sex. national origin. age. or state of physical- handicap." the language of rule 50. prohibiting employment discrimination in the senate is taken from a resolution (s. res. 89) introduced by our late colleague. senator lee metcalf. although the senate did  act on the metcalf proposal during the 94th congress. a similar resolution offered by senator mike mansfield was approved by unanimous consent september 8. 1976. the intent of the senate is clear. however. it is  necessary to approve the amendment before us as a test of our commitment to the principles of equal employment opportunity and to demonstrate to the public that the senate is longer above those laws it approves for the rest of the country. indeed. senate rule 50 can only be viewed as a beginning. for in essence. the senate has  created a right for its employees. but has  yet established procedures that would enable those employees to remedy violations of that right. and let us  deceive ourselves. "a right without a remedy is like a bell without a clapperhollow and empty." i can overstate the importance of this issue. for without effective procedures. the passage of rule 50 will be meaningless. pending before us  is what i consider to be the necessary complement to rule 50. it underscores the senates commitment to civil rights for  only workers in the public and private sectors but for our own employees. the fair employment relations amendment represents an extensive study by the governmental affairs committee for over a year on how the senate should comply with rule 50. the committees recommendations were unanimously approved april 7. 1978. senate resolution 431 was subsequently referred to and reported by the human resources committee senate resolution 431 establishes a mechanism to give employees an opportunity for due process with respect to discrimination complaints. the resolution is designed to insulate this procedure from political abuse. its main provisions are: first. fair employment relations board: the board would consist of six members appointed from the private sector by the senate majority and miity leaders. with the approval of the respective conferences. the board would decide any discrimination complaints which could  be resolved informally. and would supervise the fair employment relations office. second. fair employment relations office: the office would investigate and seek the informal resolution of discrimination complaints. the office would also study senate personnel practices. including the compilation of a statistical data. and work with any senate offices which requested assistance in improving their personnel policies. third. complaints procedurecounseling: the office would provide counseling to any employee or job applicant who felt that he or she had been discriminated against. informal complaint: if a resolution could  be achieved through counseling. an informal complaint could be filed. the director would investigate the complaint and prepare a report. if the director found evidence of discrimination. the case would be closed unless the board determined that the complainant should be allowed to file a formal complaint. formal complaint: a hearing examiner would be assigned to hear the case and submit recommendations to the board. the board would then render a decision including appropriate remedial action. appeal to the ethics committee: either party could appeal the boards decision to the ethics committee. fourth. time limits: cases of alleged discrimination would generally  be eligible for consideration under the above procedure unless the individual sought counseling within 60 days of the alleged discriminatory act or unless the alleged abuse were of a continuing nature. specific time limits are established for each stage of the complaint handling process. fifth. remedies: the board would be authorized to order remedies whenever it determined that discrimination had occurred. the remedies could include actions such as hiring or reinstatement. as well as monetary awards to be paid by the senate. remedy would be ordered which would cause undue hardship or benefit to either party. sixth. confidentiality: the board and office could  release any information concerning the existence or status of a case other than final decisions of the board and the ethics committee on formal complaints and appeals. the recommendations of the fair employment relations amendment are modest. the objective of the amendment is simply to give similar equal employment protection to senate employees who have had this basic due process denied to them in the past. i also point out that those of us who do support the amendment before us today are cognizant of the very special nature of each senators offices. recognizing the need to have flexibility in hiring a person on the basis of political and geographical preference. the amendment takes into account these factors and recognizes the uniqueness of the senate. with the passage of the fair employment relations amendment. the senate will be granting administrative remedies to its over 6.000 employees and will  be jeopardizing the checks and balances inherent in our federal system. neither will the amendment destroy a senators capability to hire on the basis of philosophical and geographical desirability. in fact. the ethics committee report on rule l takes into consideration the need for latitude in selecting a compatible staff. the report states: rule l is  to be construed as limiting in any way a members traditional prerogative to hire persons of a particular political affiliation from a particular geographic region. neither is rule l to be construed as limiting. in any way. employment practices aimed at rewarding or penalizing an individual on the basis of competence or any criteria other than those specifically referred to in the rule (p. 53. rep. 9549).
i agree with all the distinguished senatorif i may have his attention. i agree with what the distinguished senator from illis has said. but i would also want to point out and ask him. under the resolution. as i understand it. that came from the governmental operations committee. there is more than just enforcement procedure. there is informal procedure to assist and aid and improve the hiring of the handicapped. miities. the elderly. and women in the u.s. senate. does the ethics committee have that kind of mechanism in place. because the resolution itself goes beyond just the enforcement powers. i can see maybe the ethics committee would have the enforcement power. but i can see it. as an appellate board. which it is under this resolution. but the appellate board. is one thing. but to actually go out and try to act as a counsel. and all that. that is implied in this resolution. is more than i think is established in the ethics committee.  do i think the ethics committee wants to do that.  should it.
s message delivered here less than 2 hours ago. he said: i request permanent legislation leading to the formation of a longrange policy designed to prevent the recurrence of such crises and generally to reduce stoppages of work in all industries for the future. later he said: i believe that the time has come to adopt a comprehensive labor policy which will tend to reduce the number of stoppages of work and other acts which injure labor. capital. and the whole population. he added: i am sure. however. that adequate study and consideration can produce permanent longrange legislation which will reduce the number of occasions when that ultimate remedy .i the strike 1. has to be adopted. the whole subject of labor relations should be studied afresh. on this phase of his recommendation. he concluded: i recommend the immediate creation by the congress of a joint committee to make that study. this committee should study the whole problem and. within a period of 6 months. bring in recommendations for appropriate legislation which would be fair to labor and to industry and to the public at large. we regret that our efforts of february 5 and 6 produced quicker results. but we are pleased that this study is  to be undertaken. we said on may 13: we believe it is completely apparent that whatever action. if any. may be taken by congress to deal with the immediate crisis. or whatever may be the fate of the case bill. the need for the investigation proposed by our resolution will still remain. the adoption of this pending resolution will be ample recognition of the soundness of that proposition.
. i want to make a brief explanation of this bill which provides for a simple amendment to the flammable fabrics act. the amendment would permit plain surface fabrics which burn in 31/2 seconds when tested in the manner prescribed by this law to qualify as "safe" fabrics. they would  be prohibited for use in wearing apparel. the present minimum permissible burning time is 4 seconds. the law will retain the 4second burning time for textiles which have a nap. pile. tufting. or other type of raised fiber surface. they will have to meet the present requirement of the law and the bill does  attempt to affect these textiles at all. the committee on interstate and foreign commerce was advised that fabrics made of plain surface burn with a lesser degree of intensity as compared with the raised fiber surface textiles. and that the burning time for the former fabrics may be lowered without reducing. to any significant degree. the protection to the public which the congress sought to provide by the enactment of the flammable fabrics act. the purpose of this act is. of course. to protect the public from the danger surrounding the use in wearing apparel of highly flammable textiles of the types which have caused either bodily injury or death to numerous individuals. this act became public law 88 of the present congress on june 30. 1953. the congress provided that the law should take effect 1 year after the date of its enactment. the effective date was postponed for 1 year in order to give the textile industry adequate time to dispose of stocks. to obtain the testing machinery and develop the necessary skills to conduct the flammability tests. shortly before this law was scheduled to take effect. there was brought to the attention of the congress the fact that certain textiles. which have been in use in this country for many decades without any history of unusual flammability characteristics. were barred under the provisions of the flammable fabrics act. included among these ineligible textiles are certain organdies. georgettes. and tulles. two textile mills in new england are especially hard hit by this law. the baltic mills. of baltic. conn.. mally produces between 40 and 50 percent of its total volume of production very sheer organdie which fails to meet the present flammability test by a very narrow margin. a similar organdie produced by the ponemah mills. of taftville. conn.. also fails to meet the test. other mills in massachusetts are similarly affected. discontinuance of production of these very sheer textiles will mean depriving the american people of a product used in the manufacture of ladies and childrens dresses. it would mean increased unemployment in the mills and processing plants. these grave consequences are undesirable as well as unnecessary. the committee is convinced that so far as these very sheer textiles are concerned. the present law is unduly harsh. the national bureau of standards. the department of commerce. and the textile industry favor a reduction in the burning time of these plainsurface fabrics from 4 seconds to 31/2 seconds. one would be hurt by this amendment. everyone would stand to gain. and the public would still be adequately protected against textiles which are so highly flammable as to be dangerous when worn by the individual. i urge the house to pass this bill.
in last wednesdays journal of commerce the phillips petroleum midyear statement was given. phillips is the second largest producing company. as the gentleman ks. only humble exceeds its capacity to produce and has more reserves. they had a net income of $42.575.770 for the first half of 1945 as against $37.918.000 for the first half of 1954. i ask the gentleman how much more they must take from the american public to satisfy their greed.
as i understand the present computation of parity. it takes into consideration as one of the important factors the prices the farmer pays for the manufactured goods he buys. of course many of those goods are manufactured in cities. and therefore indirectly reflected in the price there must be urban wage rates. urban salaries. and everything else relating to products coming from cities.
consequently if we were to add the 20percent factor which relates only to urban wage rates. it seems to me we would duplicate a factor already included. and the chart seems to demonstrate the duplication.
i believe it is  questioned that. at least. a majority. and some estimate over 60 percent. of the outstanding issues of state and municipal securities. are held by public trust funds. sinking funds. bank reserves. insurance companies. or depositaries that are either exempt from income taxation or at least exempt from the graduated income tax.
if a millionaire buys $1.000.000 worth of state securities. his income from them would  be subject to fderal taxation. he would have paid a price or a premium for them which would recognize the low rate of interest which the state was paying on the bonds.
. it has been my privilege to serve with the senator from new york on the committee on civil service. which is also dealing with the question of wage increases. and i k the senator has also served on the committee on post offices and post roads. and i believe it is of great importance that the senate should determine whether or  there is a discrimination between the two bills being considered. i should like to ask the senator a question or two. so that the matter may be brought out clearly. the bill we have before us is. i believe. house bill 1366. which already has passed the house.
house bill 2115. which is calendar  254. provides for a reenactment of the district of columbia unemployment compensation act. and it proposes to insert in the code of the district of columbia a provision for recognition of the merit of the individual insurer. so that if there is an individual record of employment in his particular case. he will have the benefit of it in his insurance rating. such a provision is in accordance with the trend throughout the country. i think over 40 states have such a provision. i k that the state of ohio has a similar one. and it has proven satisfactory. hearings were held on the bill by the senator from south dakota and he recommended the change. i think the proposed step is a sound one in insurance policy. and it meets with the aproval of the committee on the district of columbia and. i understand. with the approval of the board of commissioners of the district of columbia.
that is correct. there being pbjection. the senate proceeded to consider the bill to amend the district of columbia unemployment compensation act to provide for unemployment compensation in the district of columbia. and for other purposes. which had been reported from the committee on the district of columbia. with amendments. under the heading "definitions". in section 1. subsection (b) (5) (g). on page 6. line 3. before the word "service". to strike out "effective january 1. 1936". in line 9. after the word "individual". to strike out the comma and the words "and substantial part of the activities of which is carrying on propaganda or otherwise attempting to influence legislation". and in line 14. in subparagraph (h) . after the word "under". to strike out "an". and insert "any other". so as to make the subsections read: "(g) service performed in the employ of a corporation. community chest. fund. or foundation. organized and operated exclusively for religious. charitable. scientific. literary. or educational purposes. or for the prevention of cruelty to children or animals. part of the net earnings of which inures to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual. "(h) service with respect to which unemployment compensation is payable under any other unemployment compensation system established by an act of congress.
. as one of the junior members of the senate. i wish to pay a personal tribute to the leadership of senator mcnary. and to express appreciation of the helpfulness which senator mcnary uniformly displayed toward me and toward all others who have come to the senate in recent years. during the 3 years i have been a member of the senate. he gave me advice and guidance which have been invaluable. more than that. he demonstrated to me what a senator can do for his nation through his service in the senate. he earned. deserved. and enjoyed the confidence of the senate and of the nation. and he served in the senate in a manner which enabled him to become a recognized leader in the nation in the field he had chosen for his special service. i had occasion recently to look up the nature of his committee service in the senate. it is impressive in its lesson. during 14 consecutive congresses he served as a member of the committee on irrigation and reclamation. and during 4 of those congresses he served as its chairman. during 13 consecutive congresses he served as a member of the committee on agriculture and forestry. and during three and a fraction of those congresses he served as its chairman. his chairmanship of that committee came to an end only when the majority of the senate changed. from that time on. for 6 congresses. he served as miity leader in the senate. in addition. he .served for 13 consecutive congresses as a member of the committee on commerce. by means of that continuity of service during practically a full generation he became an authority in the field of agriculture and its related fields in a manner which enabled him to render to this nation a distinguished service. he thereby added to the confidence which the nation feels and. i believe. which it has a right to feel in the senate. also illustrative of the contribution which a man of that kind renders through his service to the senate. i may add that he served as a member of the committee on expenditures in the department of commerce. the committee on fisheries. the committee on indian affairs. the committee to investigate unemployment and relief. the committee on the judiciary. the committee on the library. the committee on manufactures. the committee on mines and mining. the committee on pacific railroads. the committee on the philippines. the committee on public health and national quarantine. the committee on public lands. the committee on public lands and surveys. the committee on territories and insular affairs. the select committee on government organization. the special committee to investigate executive agencies of government. the special committee on wildlife resources. the special committee on the survey of land and water policies of the united states. the special silver committee. the special committee to investigate agricultural labor shortages. and the special committee on postwar ecoic policy and planning. senator mcnary was a symbol of integrity. fairness. kindness. modesty. tact. and friendship. he was a competent and intelligent public servant. he hoed the senate by his service in it. he hoed the nation by his service to it.
the committee went into that in detail. it was pointed out that all the projects in the bill are postwar projects. they based the figures on the 1938 and 1940 rates of wages and costs. which are the ones on which they have based their postwar estimates. when this matter was up for consideration in 1941 as a wartime project. it was estimated by the engineers that the project would cost. at the wartime rates. about $48.000.000. but all through the entire bill the rates are on the basis of 1938 and 1940. which are accepted by the department of labor as being substantially the same in both those years. and they are the basis of all estimates in connection with every project. we have had this project before us as a postwar project.  a wartime project.
. i should like to address the senate on the substitute proposed by the committee. it has been my privilege to attend the hearings of the military affairs committee on the socalled workorfight bill. and the development of the legislation through those hearings has convinced me that the proposal recommended by the committee meets the situation. and meets it in the best interests of the nation with a view to the most rapid solution of our production problem. i believe it will be helpful to review what is accomplished in the light of the bill as4t passed the house and as it stands before the senate today. first of all. i believe that the whole matter is set forth well and appropriately in the committee report. and i urge members of the senate to read the report. next. i wish to admit. as everyone does admit. i believe. and as. i think. has been clearly established. that there is a substantial need for additional production of war materials in order to meet our essential requirements in the critical months ahead of us. it has also been established that there may come a crisis 1. 2. 3. 4. or 5 months ahead which makes it necessary for us to take every possible precaution in order to be ready for whatever emergency may arise. i believe that the senate should pass the pending bill in the light of the circumstances which confront us and do whatever is necessary to meet the production need established by the war department and asked for by them. the only real issue is as to which method will best meet that need. some members of the committee opposed this committee substitute because it was too drastic. others opposed it because it was  drastic egh. that situation in itself should recommend the substitute as a reasonable middle ground. first. i wish to boint out that i believe that house bill 1752 is  adequate and is a dangerous bill in the form in which it came from the house. i take this position for two reasons. first of all. the bill passed the house as a labor draft bill. amounting to a national selective service act on a small scale. it applies only to onethird of the labor force of the united states. while what we need is some measure to reach the whole labor force of the united states. if we are going to solve the production problem equitably and justly. i say the house bill reaches only onethird of the labor force for the reason that it applies only to men between the ages of 18 and 45. the statistics preented to the committee showed that by leaving out the women and leaving out men under 18 and men over 45. there would be left out about twothirds of the labor force of the united states. therefore. while there may be reason for applying the bill only to this onethird. yet it is obvious that it does  reach the whole labor force. although it is that whole labor force that is required to meet the emergencies of production as adequately as our whole military manpower meets our military emergencies of combat and supply. secondly. the bill as it passed the house attempts to allocate this onethird to appropriate essential work through use of the selective service system. we had testimony before our committee which supported such a method of allocation. it was pointed out that the selective service system is adapted to the drafting of men. it is  adapted to the allocation of men to the several branches of industry where they may be most needed. at present we have the war manpower commission doing this under its voluntary system. accordingly. if the bill as it passed the house were to stand. it would create confusion in that it would apply the selective service system to onethird of those involved in industry. whereas twothirds would still be operating under the voluntary administration of the manpower commission. thereby applying a conflicting system to the two groups. furthermore. the selective service system. as was shown by the testimony to my satisfaction is  designed or prepared to handle the allocating of men to particular industrial units. as general hershey said. it is adapted to drafting men and pushing them up for military service as they are needed. it is  adapted to selecting them for industrial work or channeling them into places where they are needed in industry. the change from the manpower commission to the selective service system would provoke delay rather than eliminate delay in allocating men to the places where they are most needed. therefore. it seemed clear to the committee as a whole. although express vote was taken on it. that if the bill as it passed the house were to be made the basis of legislation. it should be modified so that its mechanism would come within the hands of the war manpower commission under the direction of the war mobilization and reconversion office. i believe that even so modified it would  be a sound solution of the problem..
i think his position would be fairly stated by saying that he felt that over a period of 2 or 3 years he has developed a system which he finds to be one to be commended. and as meeting the present situation. but that if there is to be a nemergency which will call for added production. or a greater redistribution of labor than  is necessary. he will welcome statutory authority upon which to rely. he regards himself. as i see it. as substantially at the limit to which he may go on a voluntary basis. and that he can  go much further on that basis.
it will come about in exactly the same way that representatives of labor organizations endorsed this substitute when presented by the senator from west virginia to the committee. on the ground -that they had worked out a fair plan. making sure that the allocations were made in the proper manner. and that the laboring man was interested in labor doing its full share. that is why we have a letter from philip murray recommending the passage of some such legislation as that before us. that is why we had recommendations from other labor organizations. i might read this statement to the senator. and he might pass it on to the sons of laboring men who might be sons of c. i. 0. members. the quotation from philip murray is found at page 289 of the hearings. he was  a witness. but this was a written statement sent in through his representative: the congress of industrial organizations endorses the bill introduced by senators kilgore. wagner. and others (amendments in the nature of a substitute for s. 36 were submitted to the senate by senators kilgore. wagner. and ferauson on the next day after this hearing). and urges the senate military affairs committee to report the bill favorably instead of the maybailey bill. we have a similar statement from aher representative of labor. in order to be clear i should also say that since this was sent in there has been added a penalty clause that was  in the substitute when mr. murray wrote his letter. but i believe the penalty clause merely makes the substitute more effective along its original lines.
i think the senator makes an especially valuable point when he emphasizes the fact that the willingness and enthusiasm of labor is a vital factor. the high record of production to which the senator from michigan has referred has up to this time been built upon that factor. i believe that if we can preserve that factor by following the procedure recommended by those men. rather than one which they oppose. we shall tend to increase rather than decrease the production whichhas already been achieved. . i wish to present the 14 points which the substitute includes. because i believe that they will be helpful in understanding why we should have this bill instead of bill. at the same time. i think i should state briefly the reasons why i think the house bill. even as modified so as to transfer certain powers to the war manpower commission. would  meet the problem. . first of all. the house bill makes a discrimination between onethird of the laborers and the other twothirds. the house bill. even as modified. would apply only to men between the ages of 18 and 45. that is to those subject to the military draft. therefore it would  draft women. it would  draft men under 18 years of age. or men over 45 years of age. they. as well as the onethird of the nations labor force that is between the ages of 18 and 45. are the soldiers of our industrial army. to treat this onethird differently from the other twothirds would establish a different obligation for employees doing precisely the same work in the p.ants. and therefore. it seems to me. would result in unwise discrimination. secondly. it puts compulsion directly upon the laborer. i believe that our experience shows that that is  necessary. the failure of labor to respond has been a factor. but it has been a mi factor rather than a major factor. to impose a draft upon everyone between the ages of 18 and 45 because of the few delinquents involved is  the best way to reach those delinquents. i believe they can" best be reached by making more effective the distribution of labor under the voluntary system. under authority of law. i third. as pointed out by the senator from west virginia . the compulsory draft is distasteful to some of the men involved. and therefore contributes to a reaction against it by labor. rather than to an increased supply of labor under compulsion. fourth. it disregards the progress which has been made during the past 2 years. if we proceed at this point to abandon the voluntary system and methods of distribution. and adopt instead a compulsory dpaft. we disregard the records made in this nation throughout the past 2 years. * fifth. the house bill disregards the advice of those most directly concerned. as emphasized by the senior senator from michigan . sixth. it would result in a delay. because there would be a change of systems. and the result might even lead to litigation. there has been reference to the fact that a legal question has been raised. as to whether or  the congress may lawfully draft individuals to serve other individuals. personally. from what i have studied in connection with the matter. i believe that that suggestion can be sustained as a legal objection. but there would be hing to prevent the starting of litigation at this critical time by those who wished to start it. finally. i.believe its effect on morale of our troops would  be good unless it served to bring about increhsed production. unless it served to bring about better feeling. and unless it served to show to the world that we had the strength of faith to go ahead and make good our program of voluntary cooperation. if we were to adopt the draft principle. that would  be helpful to the morale of the troops. if it resulted in less production it certainly would  be helpful. but on the other hand. if we can retain the progress we have made. and can capitalize on it and can say to the soldiers. "we will  only improve on the production needs we have made but we will do it without drafting a single individual. we will do it by being fair and by concentrating on the points which have been shown to be weak and where there has been some holding back under the voluntary system.
i am  prepared to point a finger at any of them or to charge any of them with having sinned. but i am prepared to say that the situation is due to a multitude of factors. the result of the labors of those who have struggled with this problem for 2 years. is this bill which has come to us as a recommendation from industrialists. labor and agriculture alike. saying. for example. that we need to be able to survey the governmentcontrolled production plants. which we have  been able to do before. in order to point out where there is wastage of labor in those plants. also there is need for the channeling of workers. so they will reach the plants where they are most needed. and there are some plants where unessential items are being manufactured. where a limit should be imposed on the number of employees who may be retained. in still other places we would like to be able to pay transportation costs for those employees who are sent to distant places. finally. we would like to be able to guarantee them that they will get their old jobs back when the war is over. these are practical things which are being pointed to as being necessary in order to increase production in places where it has fallen short.
i have . i would rather leave that to those who first proposed the substitute and probably are more familiar with that situation than am i. but i might say my own conclusion. and i believe that of the committee. is that having imposed an obligation in the bill there should be objection to attaching to it the mal misdemea clause. there are special reasons for putting it in. because. although there are other enforcement provisions in the bill. they do  cover all cases. for example. there is a prohibition against using expenditures made in violation of the provisions of the act as a deduction from the employers income tax. there is also a provision allowing recourse to the courts. those are helpful but do  cover all cases. as i said yesterday. i would be for the substitute with or without the penalty clause. but i think that with the penalty clause it provides a more mal recognition of a serious obligation. therefore i wguld favor leaving it in..
i should like to read that clause again in the light of the senators question: the chairman shall provide for such inplant surveys and other investigations of activities and places of employment. as may be necessary to determine the extent to which such activities or places of employment are making the most effective use of individuals in their employ. to the end that appropriate measures may be taken to eliminate labor wastage and labor hoarding. to promote full utilization for purposes essential to the war effort. by employers of their available work force. that would be open to the interpretation. i would think. that among the rules and regulations which he could make would be those which would call upon these plants to make efficient use of their labor. and they as employers would have to carry out such regulations.
in any event there has to be a willful failure under the clause. but the whole act. to my mind. is appropriately to be read in connection with the first paragraph which says: that every individual is obligated to serve the nation in that capacity for which he or she is best qualified. and to continue in such capacity so long as his or her services are required. to the end that the nation may make the most effective use of its manpower resources in support of the war effort. that is an express declaration of the obligation of the individual. i turn  to the sixth point. this is the one that relates to ceilings. and is found on pages 15 and 16. section 4 (b) (1). let me point out. first. that this provision for ceilings is to be applied where it is necessary. this is  a blanket provision. this does  automatically put ceilings on throughout the nation. this applies. according to the whole theory of the act. that where there is need for ceilings it provides authority to place ceilings there. where there is shortage of labor or excess labor. the people would  feel any difference whether the provision were in the law or . the provision in section 4 (b) (1) is as follows:" (b) to the extent necessary to carry out the purposes and means declared in the first section of this act and also for the purpose of keeping activities and places of employment essential to the war effort in productive operation. the chairman is authorized and directed. by regulation (1) to prescribe employment ceilings in designated areas. activities. or places of employment fixing the maximum number of workers. by age. sex. or occupational qualifications. who may be there employed and prohibiting the employment of workers beyond such maximum number. that gives statutory authority to the ceiling program that has been put into effect thus far on a purely voluntary basis. i am sure that there are instances throughout the united states where the addition of this authority to impose ceilings will make the difference between excess labor and the absence of excess labor in the plants. it is often the borderline plant that hangs on until there is a legal obligation imposed to make the change. it is that accumulation of individuals in borderline plants that may make the difference we seek to make. the seventh point relates to the certificate of availability and the regulations with respect to hiring. rehiring. solicitation. or recruitment of new workers. i refer to page 16. section 4 (b) (2). this gives the chairman the right "to prohibit or regulate the hiring. rehiring. solicitation. or recruitment of .new workers by employers. employer shall hire or retain in his employ any individual in violation of such regulations." the eighth point relates to the channelization. that is. the direction of the worker to the place where he would most help the government. this includes the priority referral system. i would refer. therefore. to section 4 (b) (2) again. which gives general authority over that. and i also would refer to section 2 (c). section 2 (c) is also a recognition of channels of employment. it provides as follows: (c) to the maximum degree consistent with this act and with its purposes. local initiative and cooperative efforts of management. labor. and agriculture shall be encouraged and utilized. and use shall be made of existing hiring channels such as private employers. labor organizations. professional organizations. schools. colleges. technical institutions. and government agencies. the ninth point is a new point. it deals with assistance in enabling labor to meet the demand put upon it. this part of the bill provides for transportation to and from the assignments made in this emergency. it is found on page 16. in section 4 (c). this section is carefully safeguarded. a reading of it will show the care with which this substitute bill has been prepared: (c) in the case of any individual who. in response to the request of the chairman. agrees to accept employment outside the locality where be is then residing. the chairman. in accordance with such regulations as he may prescribe. may furnish transportation to the location of such employment. and. if such individual complies thereafter with the requests and requirements made under this act with respect to his accepting and continuing in any employment or employments in the same locality until the chairman determines that he is longer needed in such locality for work essential to the war effort. may furnish transportation back to the locality from which transportation was originally furnished for such individual under this subsection. or to any other locality selected by the individual which is  farther distant. the cost of such transportation shall  exceed the amounts allowable for individual civilian employees in the executive branch of the government and shall  include any per diem allowance. the chairman shall exercise the authority conferred by this subsectibn only to the extent that he deems the exercise thereof necessary to aid in relieving manpower shortages which substantially impede the war effort.
i appreciate the senators comment about the introduction of the bill without previous consultation with either representatives of labor or of organized business. yet i must say that i have served in the senate since 1941 and there has been an increasing need for some kind of legislation which would treat this subject constructively. but it has  come forth through the channels you suggest or through any channels whatever. therefore. it seemed to me that it was time that we introduced legislation. brought it before the appropriate committees. and there gave full opportunity for everyone to consider it and testify on it and make suggestions. the absence of any really constructive effort to meet the issue is what brought forth the bill.
i believe the three sponsoring senators and also the members of the committee which studied this matter are all people who have studied the subject and given attention to it and seek to contribute a constructive measure which will help stabilize industry and labor and the domestic situation following the war. under those circumstances. the vital thing to do was to get something before the congress in the interest of and on behalf of the public. i believe that there will be ample opportunity for everyone concerned to act upon this matter through the open hearings that are bound to be held on it. hearings will be welcomed. suggestions will be welcomed. then the result the senator from connecticut seeks will be attained. but if bill had been introduced. we would have found ourselves with legislation upon which to act.
if i have to answer the question the way it is put. and i will try to. i will say that you will always do better by having adequately paid and well equipped individuals in government service. and that you will get the job done more ecoically. because one man of that sort can do the job of several inefficient people. the place to cut down on the federal pay roll is  here. the place to cut down is in the committee on appropriations where the job can really be done. you do  save any money by hiring at lowwage rates a lot of incompetent people.
i would like to ask the gentleman the same question with reference to the exemption of all employees. both from the minimum wage and hour requirements. who work in the processing of sugarcane. can the gentleman explain the reason and justification for that.
the senator from indiana is completely right that we should  use cancellation of a franchise as a means of dealing with the labor situation. as i said earlier. i think the franchise should be canceled because of the whole situation involved. and apart from the fact that there has been a strike and a cessation of operations because of it. i think the fact that the strike exists. and there is a negative attitude on the part of management toward meeting and negotiating with those on the other side. are additional reasons pointing up the basic reason why congress should cancel the franchise. i summarize the situation by saying that the present management gained control of a company which was in good financial shape so that it could weather ups and downs during good periods and bad periods. because the company had adequate reserves. it could live through such a situation as public utilities must live through. in which sometimes increases in cost of operation take place before raises in rates can be made. utilities should be able to carry on operations in such circumstances. the present management has taken the companys assets and used them to the point where the management says it is unable to meet any increases in wages unless there is a promise of full reimbursement in the way of rate increases. that was the companys position for many days. and. in fact. for months before a strike finally took place. the management of the company has indicated. both privately and publicly. that matter what increases there may be in fares. it will be unable to operate a utility profitably in the district of columbia. those are conclusive indications to me that the time has come when the exclusive right of the company to operate a transportation system in the district of columbia should be taken away. i will say to the senator from indiana and my other colleagues that it is on that ground that we are compelled to ask for a cancellation of the franchise. the fact that a strike has occurred and has brought the matter to a head is only a circumstance which has forced us to take action.
. on behalf of the senior senator from new york and myself. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to provide temporary disability insurance benefits for employees in the district of columbia. and for other purposes. i ask unanimous consent that an explanation of this bill be inserted in the record at this point in my remarks.
. i am sure that all of us have experienced the frustration of trying to plow through a typical government report with its dry text. its complexcompound sentences and columns of statistics. and. invariably its fine print that tires the mind as well as the eyes. doubt the great amount of information contained in these reports is useful and important to many people. but unfortunately. all too often the form in which they are presented results in consignment to the wastebasket. instead of the library shelf. the new publication. however. the labor departments they are america. has taken a leaf from the ebook of private industry. which learned a long time ago that financial statements and annual reports and es to stockholders and the like could and must be interesting as well as informative. industry improved its reports to its stockholders. and i am pleased to call attention to a striking example of an important government report to its stockholders. the citizens of the united states. in they are america the department of labor has taken the best from the experience of private industry and utilized the latest techniques of the art of layout and design combined with simple. clear text. it has also crammed much valuable information between its covers. interestingly illustrated with striking photographs donated by private industry. this publication. produced by the labor department at a cost greater than that of the usual stiff. dull. uninteresting government report. will. i hope. encourage other government agencies and departments to examine their publications and see if they couldnt be made more readable and acceptable to a wider audience than they  are. the best testimony as to the quality and value of they are america comes in the form of an unusual editorial about the book. which appeared in the new york times of monday. august 19. and which i would like to have printed in the record at this point.
. i am introducing today. on behalf of myself and senators amen. cooper. ives. javits. kuchel. payne. and purtell. a bill providing emergency federal extension. throughout 1958. of unemployment compensation for all those who have used up. or shortly will use up. their current benefits under existing state laws during this calendar year. i ask unanimous consent that the bill be received and appropriately referred. and that the provisions of the bill be printed in the record at this point.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point a statebystate listing of the maximum weekly unemployment benefits and the maximum number of weeks for which they may be paid under existing legislation.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point a statebystate listing of the number of workers who exhausted their unemployment compensation benefits during the month of january 1958. these are the latest figures available from the department of labor.
. we have it within our power. by means of the taking of action by the senate and the house of representatives. in the course of a day or two to lift the burden of insecurity from families. who. unless the situation changes quickly. will. by the hundreds of thousands. be facing the end of their unemployment compensation payments.
i thank the senator. as for myself. i favor permanent legislative action upon the question of unemployment compensation and the fixing of uniform standards of benefits throughout the nation. i think action on such legislation should be taken. such a measure will raise many difficulties. and perhaps be impossible of passage by congress. so before action on such a proposal is taken. there is question that we should this year immediately take care of those whose benefits under state law are expiring.
i appreciate the comments and support of my colleague from michigan. it is a bitter distinction his state has achieved. my state shares it with him. i think considering the proportionate population of the state of new jersey. the per capita figure shows the highest percentage of people whose unemployment compensation has expired. this is  a pleasant prospect to face. i hope very much that we shall be able to obtain prompt action on this measure. as i said earlier. since it is of the very highest priority.
i share the senators belief that for the permanent program this should be a stateadministered and statecontrolled program. subject. however. to floors under benefits and a minimum duration period. along the general lines of the bill introduced by the senator from massachusetts. which i favor. i am referring at present to an emergency period of time. and the provision of some federal money for the insurance program. i believe that ody. under existing state laws. should go without unemployment payments for this year. i say this because the states have  yet acted. many of the states can act fast egh to accomplish what the senator from indiana suggests. even in the states where the benefit payments are high and the duration long. there is special justice at this time in federal intervention and federal help. the problem is the greatest in the states which. for the most part. are the most highly industrialized states. such as the senators state and my state. as well as other states. generally we are referring to states whose citizens pay the highest proportion of federal income taxes. those are the states whose people must be encouraged. and where it is most desirable that something be done. it is therefore most important to avoid increasing taxes this year on those businesses. that can be done. that is an indirect beneficial feature of the proposed legislation.
. the bacondavis act. which the amendment would make applicable to projects financed with loans provided under the bill. is a timetested and proved law based upon a sound. fundamental concept of the role of government with relation to federal construction programs. this law and related statutes are designed to prevent the resources of the federal government from becoming an instrument for depressing and undermining existing labor standards.
the law is designed to prevent the resources of the federal government from becoming an instrument for depressing and undermining existing labor standards to the detriment of workers. fair employers. and the community at large. the basic purpose is to make sure that a competitive advantage in obtaining contracts will  be given to bidders who fail to observe the prevailing wage rates and the acceptable labor standards maintained by contractors in the area where the federally financed or assisted construction is to be performed. thus. these laws protect fairminded and responsible contractors against unfair competition from contractors who base their bids on wage levels lower than those actually prevailing in the area. also. local workers are protected against cheap unattached and migratory labor imported from a distance. therefore. unless this protection is guaranteed. the beneficial local ecoic effects flowing from a public works program of this type could be lost. in view of the argument made by the sponsors of the bill as to its importance in dealing with the current recession. this particular aspect of the matter is of very great importance. indeed. the davisbacon act itself applies to the construction. alteration. or repair. including painting and decorating. of public buildings or public works constructed under contract with the federal government or the district of columbia. it does  automatically cover federally aided construction programs. however. congress has long recognized the need for prevailing wage legislation similar to the provisions of my amendment. in federal loan and grantinaid. insured. or guaranteed construction programs. ample precedent for inserting prevailing wage provisions in s. 3497 can be found in construction programs for slum clearance. urban renewal. public housing. defense housing and community facilities. multifamily rental housing. schools. hospitals. airports. lease purchase construction. and highways. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record a statement of examples of prevailing wage provisions.
the senator is unquestionably right. as a matter of fact. that very specific point was emphasized to my senior colleague and to me by the representatives of the building trades unions when they were in session in washington. we are  concerned with an imaginary threat. it is something which in our state of new jersey has actually happened. employers from outside the state of new jersey have come into the state and have bid on public construction. senators k that public agencies as a rule are required to accept the lowest competent bid. such people have come into the state and have underbid legitimate new jersey firms on the basis of migratory labor. and have paid less than the going rate. this is an actual undermining of the wage and labor standards. if it were done with the use of money supplied by the federal government. either directly or by guarantee or as a grant or loan. it would be my strong feeling that we would be compounding that very undesirable and unworthy practice.
. i wish to speak very briefly to a few objections which have been suggested to the amendment. one is that it would delay the awarding of contracts. the davisbacon act does  delay the awarding of construction contracts. during the past 5 years the department of labor has reduced the time required to process wage determination requests to a minimum. the regulations of the department of labor provide that requests by the contracting agencies for wage determinations be submitted 30 days in advance of the advertisement for bids. thus during the same time that architectural. engineering and other specifications are being prepared a wage determination is being processed. the department of labor. on its existing programs. has well established sources of information and procedures which make possible the issuance of accurate prevailing wage determinations without the necessity. except in rare instances. for onthespot wage surveys. on the average. wage determinations are issued in less than a week following the agency request.
i am very much obliged to my colleague from new york. the prevailingwage requirement has behind it a quarter of a century of experience. it has  delayed any program. during world war ii the construction industry built defense facilities throughout the nation in record time. credit for facilitating this performance and avoiding disputes was attributed in large measure to the prevailing wage requirement. in an overwhelming number of cases involving the interstate highway program last year. which affords an example of the applicability of the prevailing wage rate principle. determinations have been speedily arrived at. program is perfect. the application of the davisbacon act is exception. but in the overwhelming number of cases involving. for example. the interstate highway program. which is the latest example of the applicability of the prevailingwage principle. the determinations have been fair. speedily arrived at. and  burdensome from the standpoint of cost. last year the department of labor issued 28.065 wage determinations. this year the figure is expected to reach 34.000. these will involve upward of 31/2 million separate craft minimums established throughout the the united states and its territories. think of that.  of the american association of state highway officials. testified before the house public works committee. the testimony developed these points: representative george. have your labor costs gone up extensively in your state due to that (prevailing wage provision).
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point a very enlightening article entitled "prevailing wages for federal highways." published in the magazine engineering newsrecord for january 23. 1958.
. in view of the importance of the problems involved in the testing of nuclear weapons. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the remarks which i made last week at a luncheon held by the advertising club of new jersey in ho of the selection of secretary of labor james p. mitchell as new jerseys outstanding citizen of
this raises the point quite sharply and properly. i do  think that a very slight amount of business done in interstate commerce should result in depriving the employees or the employers in a given business of federal standards and federal machinery. or machinery comparable to it. i really feel very strongly about that. i suspect that the people who are interested in the matter are  so much the people of states like utah. which has. as i understand. very good laborrelations machinery. or new york. or my own state. which have laws of their own. but. rather. it is the desire of people in many other places where the protection for both management and labor in such matters is  adequate to maintain what supposed advantage exists. for that reason. really. i have sympathy with the argument that simply because a slight amount of business is in interstate commerce the state should apply its law which is different from the federal law. or employ its machinery which is  adequate or equivalent to the machinery provided by the labormanagement act.
. i present a resolution adopted by the board of commissioners o the city of cape may. n.j.. favoring the enactment of legislation to change the labor day. holiday from the first to the second monday in september. i ask unani76& mous consent that the resolution be printed in the record. and appropriately referred.
 of a national association of chain groups. made an effective plea for unity in the ranks of government. labor and industry. to help the united states advance its goals in the ecoic war with the soviet world. he has made a concrete suggestion for a national meeting of leaders in the ranks of government. labor and industry to initiate discussions looking toward the development of unity in the common goal. i have been encouraged by reports that more thought is being given by the admfnistration toward the creation of a special planning board to coordinate the ecoic aspects of the cold war. such coordination within government should receive the backing of a unified industrylabor movement. i commend mr. shields enlightened views to my colleagues. and ask unanimous consent that his address may be printed in the record.
. i submit an amendment. intended to be proposed by me to senate bill 1555. and ask that it be printed and lie on the table. senate bill 1555. as reported. permits the secretary of labor to exempt unions of less than 200 members and gross annual receipts of less than $20.000 from its financial reporting requirements. secretary of labor mitchell has opposed this exemption. pointing out that all union members should have governmental protection of union funds. regardless of whether they are part of a small or a large union. the secretary pointed out that in the disclosures of the mcclellan committee "some of the very difficult problems" and "some of the messier situations arose in these small unions." he emphasized that some of the most corrupt unions. such as the johnnie dio paper locals. could. under some future secretary of labor. evade the financial reporting requirements. the argument has been made that these reporting requirements would be burdensome to the smaller union. but the bill already contains a provision giving the secretary of labor ample authority to prescribe simplified reports for small unions and small employers where more detailed reports would be burdensome. my amendment would close a significant loophole in the effective protection of union members and the general public. i believe all union members should be given equal treatment under the law.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a series of three bills to amend the social security act. the first bill would permit social security beneficiaries to earn more money on their own and still be able to draw benefits. under present law. a person may  earn more than $1.200 a year and still receive his full social security benefit. an original purpose of the social security law was to facilitate the withdrawal of older workers from the labor force. this law was written in depression times. young people. hungry for jobs. moved into the working force when their seniors retired. the socalled earnings test. the ceiling on outside income. was one way of accomplishing this aim of discouraging older workers from continuing in their jobs. clearly. the emphasis of our social security programs has changed since those days. the bills i introduce today would accomplish these purposes: first. raise from $1.200 a year to $1.800 the amount which can be earned as income without reduction of the beneficiarys eligibility for full old age and survivors insurance retirement benefits. second. permit workers who postpone retirement to accumulate extra pension credits for use when they finally do retire. at present. the average age of first entitlement to oldage insurance benefits is about 68 to 69 years. increasing benefits for persons who delay retirement after 65 would provide an incentive for older workers to continue in productive employment as long as they are useful. presently. these individuals simply lose the benefits to which their years of employment under the system would have mally entitled them. my bill proposes an increase of onefourth of 1 percent for each month of delayed retirement. or 3 percent a year. third. prevent actual loss of income as a result of staying on the job past retirement age. under existing law. it is possible to lose more in benefits deducted as a result of outside income than is gained from the outside employment itself. the 85th congress took a halting step toward removing the discrimination against older workers created by the inequitable earnings test. in the omnibus social security bill passed last year. congress raised from $80 to $100 the monthly limit on outside earnings which a beneficiary could make without losing a months benefits. thus. a bill which i. along with others. had previously offered was enacted into law. but this was a mi change. indeed. and further improvement ought to be made. the senate finance committee. after thorough consideration of the earnings test in 1954. made this report to the senate: monthly benefits under the oldage and survivors insurance system are paid upon the retirement or death of the family earner. consequently. the law provides that benefits are  payable to persons otherwise eligible for benefits if they have substantial employment or selfemployment earnings. as determined under the retirement test set out in the act. your committee seeks to maintain this principle. but has determined that certain amendments should be made to increase the equity of the retirement test and to afford greater opportunities to retired individuals to supplement their benefits through earnings from parttime or intermittent work. i believe we should move toward these reasonable goals .
i agree fully with the statement of the senator and with the report of the committee. to which he referred earlier in his remarks. when i said that the proposal of the senator from massachusetts would force a state to adopt a form of taxation it did  want. i meant exactly that. i mention. for example. my own state. new jersey does  have an income tax or a sales tax. except for a certain specific purpose. the money for the upkeep of the new jersey government is raised in other ways. our adjoining state of new york has an income tax. new york state chooses to raise a large part of its income for government operations by taxing the incomes of persons and corporations who work and live in that state. is there any reason why the residents of new jersey who work in new york should have to pay twice for government functions. once in new york and again in new jersey. because they live in new jersey and have to pay their share of the upkeep of new jerseys government. there is a basic unfairness in one state taxing the income of a person who lives in aher state. i am  speaking about the constitutional power. when it is said that a state has the right to do this. it is  stated whether it is proper for it to do so. particularly. it is  stated whether the federal government should be a party to an unjust. unsound kind of taxation. which it spreading elsewhere throughout the country. until we are so enmeshed in intricacies that we are bogged down with taxes. i commend the junior senator from new hampshire for the sound position he is taking. and also the sound position of the committee on finance. which reported the bill.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the body of the record a brief statement on the occasion of the 75th birthday of one of new jerseys outstanding labor leaders. i refer to mr. lewis m. herrmann. editor of the new jersey labor herald in newark. n.j. it is remarkable that at an age when most men are content to enjoy a wellearned rest he is still devoting his energies to the many projects and activities with which his name has been connected for so long.
. on june 24. 1960. my colleague from new jersey and i brought to the attention of the senate the plight of approximately 3.400 new jersey teachers and other public employees. these people have retired or are shortly eligible to retire under a plan which permits the state of new jersey to reduce the retirement allowance payable by the state pension fund if the employees earned a social security benefit through new jersey public employment. any social security benefit earned through such employment is used to relieve the state of all or a portion of its obligation to pay .a pension to a retired public employee. many of these people who have already retired had purposely advanced the dates of their retirement in order to avoid earning a social security benefit through public employment in new jersey. others who are still working have long planned to take the same course. the ability to do this was held out to the new jersey teachers and other employees as an inducement when they voted to come under the federal social security program and it was a part of the terms of the service they have rendered since that time. section 204(a) of h.r. 12580. however. proposed to cut eligibility requirements to such a degree that all of these people would be considered as having earned their social security benefit through new jersey public employment. the effect of this on these people would be a substantial reduction in income through loss of pension from the state of new jersey. to prevent this calamitous loss of much needed. and justly anticipated. income by many of our most deserving senior citizens. senator williams and i jointly introduced on june 24 an amendment to section 204(a) of h.r. 12580 which would protect members of the new jersey teachers pension and annuity fund and the new jersey public employees retirement system against the adverse effects of the proposed reduction of eligibility requirements. however. after careful study of this amendment and several alternative proposals. officials of the department of health. education. and welfare expressed their opposition to this approach. other than deletion from section 204 (a) of the proposal to cut in half the number of quarters of coverage required there appeared to be federal approach. acceptable to the department. assuring new jersey teachers and public employees they would receive the benefits they have been promised. the social security bill reported out by the senate finance committee does  contain a proposal to cut in half the number of quarters of coverage required. by deleting this provision the committee has. in effect. carried out the intent of the williamscase amendment. and acted to protect the interests of new jersey teachers and public employees. however. the finance committee bill does contain a new proposal to lower the retirement age for men from 65 to 62. because eligibility requirements are directly related to retirement age. this would cause men to become fully insured with fewer quarters of coverage than are required under present law. as the retirement age for women is already 62. they would  be affected. the net effect of the finance committee action on h.r. 12580 to date would be to prevent loss of income on the part of women teachers and public employees in new jersey but to leave men still faced with the prospect of reduced benefits. the amendment which senator williams and i  propose to the finance committee bill will eliminate the remaining threat of loss of income for these deserving teachers and public employees. at the same time. it will permit a reasonable liberalization of eligibility requirements. it will also permit a man to receive benefits 3 years earlier than under the present social security law. and. most importantly. it does  affect adversely any person or group.
. the legislative liaison officer of a federal agency is the key for us members to a cordial and cooperative working arrangement with that agency in our many dealings therewith. one of the most competent individuals in the present administration who has served for some years in that capacity is albert l. mcdermott. who has handled such work with the congress for the department of labor. secretary of labor mitchell has annced that mr. mcdermott has resigned to resume the private practice of law. my best wishes for his continued success go with him.
ial appointees. in some cases. there has been an extensive inquiry into the financial interests of a particular inee. in other cases. little or attention has been given to this aspect of the inees qualifications. it is right and proper that we k the financial interests of officials in high positions. but such information should be disclosed once but regularly by some but by all top officials just by those in the executive branch but by those of us in the legislative branch as well. regular disclosure of such information is a primary purpose of this bill. it would require that top officials in the governmentin the legislative as well as in the executive branchshould file periodically reports of their income and financial transactions. our bill is based upon the premise that full disclosure of financial interests offers the most effective protection against the misuse of public position for private gain. this is  a new principle. it is. for example. the basic approach embodied in our laws governing campaign expenditures. though here too its application should be broadened. and generally we believe that a requirement of full disclosure of the facts is a far more workable approach than an attempt by law to draw a precise line between proper and improper interests. relationships. and conduct. we emphasize the inclusion of members of congress and top staff serving the members or congressional committees because it is time. we believe. that we had a single standard in these matters. for too long we have had a double standard. congress is diligent in holding the executive branch to strict accountability. and we do  hesitate to give inees a real grilling. this is as it should be. at the same time. however. the whole process would be more seemly. in our view. if members of congress as well were subject to the same requirements of disclosure as officials in the executive branch. the public has a right to k the facts in either case. our bill would also apply the principle of disclosure to all ex parte communication concerning particular cases with regulatory agencies. it would require that any communicatioal or writtenfrom a member of congress or anyone in the executive branch. or from anyone at all. to a regulatory agency concerning a particular case before that agency be made a part of the public record of that case. this would. we believe. effectively do away with the backdoor approach which has place in regulatory or licensing proceedings. it would help to dispel the innuendo and suspicion that  clouds this area. this is. of course. just one aspect of the socalled influence problem. there are many others. for example. where does one. where should one. draw the line between legitimate representation of constituents interestswhat might be called proper influenceand socalled improper influence or pressure. every member of congress has confronted. at one time or aher. and most likely many timesa problem of this sort. for that reason. our bill also proposes to establish a commission to study and make recommendations on handling problems like this which inevitably arise in relations between the administrative and the legislative branches of our government. last year congress did act to require reports of expenditures by congressional committee members and committee staffs. and these reports are at last available to the public. this was a real step forward. we hope congress will take the further steps proposed by our bill in the interests  only of the public at large. but of the congress itself.
i can only say "thank you" to the senator from oregon. i appreciate deeply his kind and generous statement. i. too. was very reluctant to leave the committee on labor and public welfare. and one of the chief reasons is that i have found it possible. under the chairmanship of the subcommittee chairman. the senator from oregon. to be a little bit effective in this area. because of the way he has handled that subcommittee. and  only his relationships with all its members in committee. but. i may say. his ability to draw out what is best in a man. i regret leaving the committee. in a sense. i wanted to do that in which i was most useful. one must make a choice. and it was with great reluctance that i chose to leave the labor and public welfare committee. however. i will in way have a lesser interest in the subjects which come under the jurisdiction of that committee. and particularly in the field of education. i most certainly hope that the chairman will feel free to call upon me when i can in any way be useful.
. congress is  midway in the llth month of the longest session in years. unfortunately. the unusual length of the session is the only distinctionand a dubious distinction indeedthat this congress has so far achieved. it appears. however. that we may be on the verge of still aher dubious distinctiona new low in public confidence in the integrity of the congress as a whole. the resignation of the majority secretary and subsequent developments reported in the press have cast a reflection on the congress as an institution. members as well as staff. recently. the junior senator from oregon and i wrote to the chairman of the senate committee on rules and administration and urged that the provisions of our bill. s. 1261. of which the senior senator from pennsylvania [mr. clarxj is a cosponsor. be made a part of the baker inquiry established by senate resolution 2112. our bill would require annual disclosure of all sources of income and financial transactions by elected as well as top appointed officials and by high level staff in both the executive and the legislative branches. i am sure many senators have been disturbed by the comments made on this subjectincluding one made by the majority leader. who. as i understand. has given at least tentative approval of the idea of disclosure.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record a table prepared by the u.s. department of commerce. bureau of the census. showing the median income in 1949 and in 1959 of white and of -white males for each of the states of the united states and also for the united states as a whole.
there are even greater discrepancies in other states where there are fewer negroes. such as th dakota. where unemployment for whites is 5.4 percent and for whites almost five times as much. or 25.2 percent. we are  trying to pull the wool over anyones eyes. but there are a number of reasons for this. in new jersey there is  the same amount of agriculture as there is in the south. negroes are  in agriculture in any great number. as is the case in the south. negroes are drawn to the cities. they come from many places in the south in great num. bers. one and a half million in the 1950s. seeking employment. they have largely settled in thern cities such as the new yorknew jersey metropolitan area. they compete with workers who have had higher educational opportunities to train for jobs. for which these farmworkers lack skills. withstanding our strong and. on the whole. fairly well administered fair employment practices law. we have high unemployment. i am sure that if it were  for our commission. the discrepancy between negro and white unemployment would be much greater. in new jersey than it is.
i do  agree with the senators premise. what is happening in the state of washington and in other states in the th is that hundreds of negroes flock in from the south. they pour into the cities. because there is agricultural employment. which is the only kind of employment that they are fitted for. neither is there the service type of employment which is available in other parts of the country. the only thing they can do is put themselves on the labor market. which is constantly decreasing. because of automation. in the blue collar area. they have other skills. that is the reason for the high unemployment rate. i am sorry it exists. i am  proud of it. or happy about it. however. it does  indicate that there is more discrimination in th dakota or montana or new jersey or new york than there is in louisiana. i am certain the facts would  justify any such conclusion.
i can say whether it is typical or is  typical. because it may be that seasonal factors affect the situation for that month. or that other factors affect it. with the result that the figures for that month may  be typical at all. i k there is serious unemployment in new jersey. and i k that the unemployment rate among negroes there is roughly twice the amount of the unemployment rate among whites in new jersey--a situation very different from that in the south. my point is that that is typical of the situation existing in the states of the th. as compared with the situation existing in the states. of the south.
i think i have made the general argument in refutation of the conclusion the senator from th carolina is persistently trying to draw from these figures. the figures show what they show. they show that negro unemployment for that particular month of 1960 in illis was 11.5 percent. whereas in that particular month of 1960. unemployment among whites was 3.8 percent. to me. those figures in themselves show hing whatever about discrimination in illis. although i have doubt that discrimination exists. it certainly does  indicate to the senator from new jersey.  do i believe it- would indicate to anyone from any part of the country except the south. that there is more discrimination in employment in illis than there is in the states which the senator from louisiana. the senator from th carolina. and some others have the great ho to represent. and which they represent so excellently. there are many reasons for the high rate of unemployment among negroes in the th. i believe the greatest reason is the influx of the unskilled. uneducated negroes from southern areas into our great cities. they can be absorbed because there are jobs in those areas which they are able to fill.
. i wonder if the senator would permit me to turn to aher comparison. during the course of my remarks i inserted in the record tables showing the median income of white and white male workers from 1949 to 1959. as i recall. i have before me  a shorter table for the 11 southern states. showing the median income of white and white male workers for 11 of those states for the years 1950 to 1960. i should like to make the comparison a part of our consideration . since we are deeply interested in getting at the facts. i suggest that those figures have a bearing upon the problem. in the senators state of th caro.lina in 1960 the median income for male whites was $3.035. in the same year the median income for male negroes was $1.286less than half. or perhaps 40 percent. i call those statistics to the attention of the senator. the same general ratio applies throughout. the senator from louisiana and i have been discussing the subject. in the state of louisiana the figure for white male workers is higher. i do  k what the explanation would be. but the median figure for male white workers in 1960 in louisiana in respect to income was $4.001. which is almost $1.000 more than the median for the same workers in th carolina. i leave the senators to discuss the reasons for the differenca but those figures compare with an income figure of $1.565 for a male negro. or again about 40 percent of the white rate. the percentage runs through the whole table. which i believe indicates discrimination.
 but i believe the senator would find. if he received that figureand i do  have it for that particular datethat the rate for negro unemployment is more than two times as great as for white. the difference indicates something.
the senator has asked a "$64" question. ody ks all the answers. there are many different answers. automation makes up a part of the answer. techogical changes have some part in it. the change in the structure of employment. as it is called. has a great deal to do with unemployment. there are a number of causes. including inadequacy of education for some white people. the opportunities for many people. white and negro. are  as good as they should be. the only thing that is significant to the discussion is the comparison of unemployment based upon the difference between the rate of unemployment of negroes and whites. even this fact i would  argue too much. because it requires explanation along the line that the senator from th carolina and the senator from louisiana have been pursuing.
the bill would do only one thing. it would make it unlawful for a person to discriminate against an individual in regard to employmenthiring. firing. promotion. or any other matterbecause of race. it does  require anybody to hire a particular individual. it does  require anybody to hire someone who can do the job necessary. there is motorola case involved in the federal law as proposed. as i pointed out in my remarks.
 wholly. there is the failure to hire a person. the fact that he was  given an increase in pay. or the fact that he was fired. the only question is "why." if the senator were the person who had been discriminated against. he would find it to be a specific thing and an important thing. and egh to warrant the intervention of a state which is interested in all its people.
i mean any earned income as opposed to income from securities. for example. any fees a lawyer may earn due to his being a member of the senate should be included. i do  believe that only one kind of earning should be included.
does  the senator feel that anything in the way of the receipt by mr. baker or his associates of either services of goods furnished by a public agency at below mal and proper prices would be income and therefore have to be included as income.
. i ask that there be printed in the record a statement of assets and liabilities of my wife and myself. as of the end of 1964. and of our income for that year. at the end of 1963. i placed a similar statement in the record.
let me express my appreciation to the senator from new york for his initiative in this vitally important matter and to state for myselfand i k for all senators who cosponsor his billthat we shall press to the very limit of our strength and ability to obtain action. -i invite the attention of the senate to the fact that the proposals made are. in substantial part. a repetition of several proposals which were a part of the package of civil rights bills introduced by a number of senators in 1963nearly 2 years agoat which time a number of  senators introduced special bills. particular individual bills. and other senators cosponsored them. the senator from new york introduced a bill which included the specific provisions which he is introducing today as a part of this proposed legislation. i hope very much that we shall have actionand we shall certainly do everything we possibly can tosee that we will get itby the judiciary committee of the senate. and by the senate itself. in the light of the evidence. so that it will longer be possible for individual officers. special deputies. and the governmental units which employ them. to engage with impunity. in depriving american citizens of their constitutional rights.
. many people on capitol hill demonstrated their regard for my administrative assistant. sam zagoria. by attending his swearingin as a member of the national labor relations board on tuesday. april as they may be interested in some of the press comment on this appointment. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record four editorials which have appeared in new jersey about the appointment of mr. zagoria.
i do  wish to presume to interfere between the senator from california and the senator from tennessee on the question of postponement. therefore. i shall  direct my discussion to that point. even if the most liberal interpretation of the amendment of the senator from california be the correct one. and the amendment would apply  only to every building. whether it be a onefamily house or a multiplefamily dwelling. but also anything else the financing of which is guaranteed by fha. and even if the areawide basis is the correct one. as far as the prevailing wage question is concerned. it seems to me most desirable that the amendment be adopted. i think it is as simple as that. shall we have the credit of the federal government used to help drive down wages. that is the question. or will we have a national policy which is appropriate to establish when we render national financial assistance. even for a singledwelling homeowner. that can be carried into effect by establishing the prevailing wage rates. we have done that all along on public construction. we have done it on private construction. for commercial ventures. and that sort of thing. i see reason why a person building a 1family dwelling should be treated differently from a person building a 10family house. a 20family dwelling. or a 100family dwelling. if the person constructing such a building desires the assistance of the federal government. he should be able to get it only on the condition that he  violate a national wage policy. if that is  a national wage policy which was established. i may say with some pride. under republican auspices many years ago. and supported by both parties alike over the years. and expanded in its coveragealthough  expanded as quickly as i would like to have seen it expandedthen i am mistaken. when the question comes to a voteand i do  argue as to whether action should be had today or aher dayi hope that the amendment will be carried overwhelmingly.
 of the new jersey branch of the naacp. the levittown. n.j.. chamber of commerce. and the carver branch. ymca. trenton. he held meetings with our gover. the commissioner of labor and industry of new jersey and with several officials of the federal department of labor. from these sessions there appeared uniformly favorable reactions. there was every reason for mr. williams to believe that his proposal would be a useful contribution to reducing unemployment in a difficult area. his proposal was considered by the new jersey department of labor and industry and by the federal department of labor and was approved by both. a contract was signed on july 22. 1963. to launch this modest pilot training project. suddenly. however. just 2 days before the program was to begin in august. the contract was suspended by this telegram from the federal department of labor:
. the amendment proposed by myself. the senator from th dakota and the senator from connecticut . to h.r. 9811. would authorize an eggmarketing order. in that connection. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point an article from the newark evening news of may 5. 1965. entitled "egg income down."
. recently a stimulating series of articles on automation and its effects appeared in the press. coauthors of the series were roscoe drummond. of the new york herald tribune syndicate. and sam zagoria. a member of the national labor relations board. i ask unanimous consent that these provocative columns be printed in the record. . there being objection. the articles were ordered to be printed in the record. as follows: [from the new york herald tribune. . 15. 1965]
. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed at this point in the record an editorial entitled "labor day. 1966." written by vincent j. murphy and published in the labor herald on september 5. 1966.
. all of us in congress who are concerned with the decline of our central cities will. i think. be particularly interested in the transcript i have received of the aflcio program. "as we see it." carried by the american broadcasting co. on sunday. january 29. when sam zagoria. a member of the national labor relations board. was interviewed by harry w. flannery. in the course of this interesting and illuminating discussion. mr. zagoria placed particular emphasis on the problem of innercity unemployment as a result of the movement of industry to the suburbs. i am sure senators will be interested in mr. zagorias remarks and in his suggestions for correcting this serious problem. i ask unanimous consent that the transcript of this radio interview be printed at this point in the record.
 of the united states proposed that members of congress .disclose annually income received for personal services and gifts of -$100 or more in cash or kind. while his recommendation did  go nearly far egh. it was welcome recognition of the effectiveness of the disclosure approach. congress lags far behind. it is time we ourselves recognized. and acted on the recognition. that public disclosure is fal and away the most practicable and least painful way of maintaining the public confidence in the integrity of its government.
. it is always pleasant to take part in the celebration of ceremonies marking a successful exercise in democracy and at the same time marking a tremendous achievement in harmonious relations between labor and management. the fact that the 25 millionth voter is a resident of my state and an employee of a reyds metals co. plant in my state makes the pleasure less. twentyfive million votes is a tremendous number of votes even in new jersey. but the principle which underlies the whole process is even more significantthat each working man and woman shall be given the opportunity to vote a secret ballot for or against union representation. the action of congress in enacting the national labor relations act created a simple. lawful. and most importantpeacefulway to determine whether a group of workers wanted a union or . and if so. which one. the election process has been broadly accepted by labor and management. evidence of this is that tomorrow the aflcio will join with top organizations of management in hoing the national labor relations board for achieving this milestone. i should like to extend my congratulations. too. to this tiny agency of some 2.300 employees which has held more than 200.000 elections. sometimes under most difficult conditions. and at remote places. so that individual workers can exercise their precious right to vote. these representation elections have led to realistic discussions by labor and management about the problems that trouble workers and out of these bargaining table sessions have come hundreds of thousands of contracts. this process has helped our nation achieve an everrising standard of living. has led to unprecedented industrial growth and has given the individual worker a sense of security and dignity essential to his welfare. in concluding. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a statement by the national labor relations board describing the selection of the 25 millionth voter.
. the national labor relations board has just concluded an official celebration of the 25 millionth vote cast in secret elections conducted by the board. labor and management joined in sponsoring both the ceremonies here and those held in the various regions throughout the country it was a particular pleasure for me to participate in the celebration here in washington and in newark. because it was in new jersey that the 25 millionth vote was cast by leonard paul sche a machinist and mechanic of carteret. n.j.. who is employed at the new reyds metal co. plant in woodbridge. mr. scheand the other workers selected the united steelworkers of america. aflcio. as their bargaining agent with the plant. the ceremonies occasioned widespread comment in the press. i ask unanimous consent that a group of representative editorials be printed in the record.
. i ask unanimous consent that my own remarks on the occasion of the luncheon celebrating the 25 millionth vote in national labor relations board elections. held at the robert treat hotel. in newark. n.j.. on march 27. 1967. be printed in the record.
. i think the senator from colorado is performing a proper and useful service. i think there are a couple of reasons for this apparent inequity. if one is permitted. first. it is  desired to discourage people from increasing their income and making efforts to do so. i think this has a very substantial social value. aher reason would be to keep a certain amount of stability in a family structure and home despite the fluctuations in income. i do  say this is the ideal way to handle the matter and attain those objectives. and i do  quarrel with the senator from colorado in stating the facts and setting out the law. however. i think it is  as completely senseless as some persons may think on the first statement of the matter.
. at the re- and staff earning $15.000 or more submit quest of the senator from california [mr. annual financial reports. i regret. howkuchel ]. i ask unanimous consent to ever. that the committee resolution prohave printed in the record the financial vides that these personal financial statestatement of senator and mrs. thomas ments shall be submitted in sealed enveh. kuchel. and statement of income for lopes and filed with the comptroller the year ending december 31. 1967. my general. theayer eding eember 31.t 1967. m to call confidential submission of a colleagues will remember that senator sealed report disclosure is a miser. kuchel is a cosponsor of my bill. s. 1104. disclosure to the public is vital to the the latest in a series of disclosure bills effectiveness of the disclosure principle. i have included in each congress since i have therefore joined with senator 1957. clark in sponsoring the pending amend-
i would say that the amount and source of each item of income would be disclosed. however. if the senator would continue to develop his point better. perhaps i would be better able to respond. i have  gotten the point yet.
. for the purpose of legislative history in the event the pending amendment becomes pat of the resolution. so that the matter will be clearer and stronger than it is at the prfsent time. i would say specifically that if money were coming to me. a member of the senate. and i directed that. instead. it be paid to my grandson or to a trust for someone else. i think it would still be a gift or income to me and would have to be reported as such. therefore. i think there is gap there.
the senator from new jersey can speak for himself. but i think the senator from pennsylvania agrees. and i think we would all agree that in the case the senator from iowa is proposing. there would be a receipt of income which would have to be reported at the time the money is paid to that trust.  later. and that the description of the receipt of the income would be income from xyz bandits. or what. received by the senator. when the payment is made to the trust on his direction.
i do  believe he has to have any interest in the trust to make it obligatory on him when the trust receives when he gets anything. even if he gets hing from the trust later. . under this ruleand it is a rule. and it would be interpreted in the spirit of our intentionswhen the trust. upon his direction. receives any money at all that represents something payable otherwise to him. then i believe he has received income at that point. i do  believe it has to be a trust. if i asked someone who owed me $10 for work i have donein drawing his will or a deed or whatto pay it to the senator from kentucky. just out of love and affection for him on my part. i believe that would be the~receipt by me of income at the time the payment is made to him. matter what he does with it.
so far as that particular income statement is concerned. that might be correct. but i call to the senators attention the fact that in accordance with the provision on page 4. there will have been listed. either previously or at the same time. a statement of assets.
i repeat what i said before to the senator. that would be my impression. i would  want to give an opinion as to whether or . under some circumstances. it would  be something that the tax people would construe as income if there were an obvious arrangement to avoid the income tax.
. at this point. i ask unanimous consent that there be inserted in the record a table which has been prepared showing clerk hire expenditures by members of the senate for the.period july 1. 1964. to june 30. 1965. ranked by expenditures per person. and showing the per capita expense per year. "per capita" means the members of his constituency.
. on monday. july 28. senator scott appeared before the select committee on education of the house education and labor committee in support of legislation to establish a commission on afroamerican history and culture (h.r. 3295 and s. 14). i cosponsored s. 14 when senator scott introduced it on january 15 of this year. i ask unanimous consent that the testimony of senator scott on behalf of this proposed legislation be printed in the record.
walter reuther had a unique place in the american labor movement to which he was dedicated. a tireless worker. he spared neither himself  others in the effort to make the labor movement a force for good in the community at large. the members of the uaw have suffered a grievous loss. and the country has lost a man whose initiative and forthright advocacy sparked so many advances in our social and ecoic structure.
. vigorous. alert to the needs of his state and the nation. charles goodell adds greatly to the strength of the whole senate. on the job all the time. he is a tireless worker for the public good. it is a pleasure to work with a man of his devotion and ability. and i look forward to the continuation of our relationship in the years ahead.
 an extension of the authority it gave him last year to impose direct wage and price controls for a limited period. this authority could provide. i believe. a useful stopgap pending the establishment of a wageprice board along the lines i have suggested. the task of restoring ecoic stability. unfortunately. does  lend itself to accomplishment by any single segment of the ecoy. it is a problem for the nation as a whole and its successful resolution will require the mutual cooperation of business. labor. industry. and government. nevertheless. the government. by virtue of its authority. its resources and its involvement in all sectors of the ecoy. has a special responsibility to insure the orderly operation of our ecoic system. the next step should be the establishment of a wageprice review board.
s. i simply question whether a secret intelligence organization should be assigned a warmaking role abroad. certainly this was  the intent of congress when it originally voted to establish cia. so i come to my three proposals to limit the executives authority tb wage a secret war. these are  allinclusive. but they are an attempt to get at the questions of the circumvention of congressional intent and the hiring of mercenaries. the specific proposals are: first. a bill to extend the limitations which  apply to the use by the defense department of its funds overseas to all u.s. government agencies. including cia. this would prevent the circumvention of congressional intent in the funding of activities such as the thai troops in laos through cia rather than through more open government agencies. it would also eliminate the possiblity that the cooperchurch prohibitions against the use of american troops or advisers in cambodia could be skirted by using cia personnel. second. a bill to prohibit the funding by any u.s. government agency of military operations by any country outside its borders without specific congressional authorization. this would eliminate the confusing trail of thais in laos. cambodians in laos. and even thais in cambodia. it would  affect the present programs for u.s. payments to koreans. thais. and filipi in vietnam. since congress has specifically voted money for these troops. my bill would. however. require the administration to inform the congress. on a confidential basis. if necessary. of the details of any agreements with foreign governments to finance their military operations abroad. i would hope this would prevent our government from offering lavish inducements to foreign governments in return for the use of their troops. as you may remember. it was revealed last year that the u.s. government in some cases had been secretly paying koreans and thais in vietnam higher levels of combat pay than were being paid to american troops fighting in the same country. third. a bill to extend existing limitations on the use by the defense department of surplus military materiel to all government agencies. i make this proposal because of reports i have received of the relatively unrestricted use of surplus materiel by cia. i have means of verifying these reports. but if they are untrue. my bill would  interfere with any existing government programs. the three proposals i have outlined would serve to plug some loopholes in the law. of course they would by means close them all. the executive can find ways to skirt almost any prohibition if it is so inclined. the solution to the problem lies. in the long run.  in a tighter drafting of the law but in the acceptance by the executive of congress and the public as partners in the conduct of the peoples vital business. our country was founded on the principles of democracy. and the essence of a democracy is the participation of the people and their representatives in the decisions which affect their very national existence.
. on behalf of the distinguished senator from pennsylvania . i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a statement by him in tribute to mr. irving abramson. a leading labor and civic leader.
the senator from new jersey. unfortunately. has to be away. he is  away very often. but he has made a longterm commitment to be at a labor gathering at montreal. which is important in its own right to labor and to the senator from new jersey. the senator from new jersey is especially interested in the dominick amendment. because it would strike a provision which was inserted in the bill at my instance. therefore. i must be here. i would need about a half hour. but i would  want either to close debate on the dominick amendment or to have a vote on it tomorrow.
. the emergency unemployment compensation act of 1972 is due to expire at the end of this month. thousands of jobless workers in 18 states and puerto rico face the bleak prospect of having benefits available to them beyond the mal 26 weeks on unemployment compensation routinely available during the least difficult of times. in view of the seriousness of this situatlon. i have sent a letter to the secretary of labor urging his support for the extension of this act. joining me in signing this letter was every republican senator from the 18 states  in jeopardy of losing this entitlement: lowell p. weicker. jr. of connecticut. jacob k. javits of new york. edward w. brooke of massachusetts. len b. jordan of idaho. mark 0. hatfield of oregon. robert t. stafford of vermont. margaret chase smith of maine. robert w. packwood of oregon. george d. aiken of vermont. robert p. griffin of michigan. ted stevens of alaska. milton r. young of th dakota. i ask unanimous consent that the letter be printed in the record.
. i am delighted to join senator magnuson today in introducing legislation to provide emergency unemployment compensation payments for those thousands of jobless workers who have exhausted or will soon exhaust their regular state benefits. the first of these billsto renew the emergency unemployment compensation act of 1971 for a period of 6 months--would authorize the continuation of the 13week federally financed extension for workers in new jersey and 17 other states. less than 2 weeks ago. every republican senator in the 18 states affected joined me in a letter to secretary of labor hodgson urging his support for renewal of this legislation. thereafter. 20 democratic senators joined in a similar letter to the secretary. with such strong bipartisan backing. the bill will. i hcpe. move expeditiously through the legislative process. in this connection. it is encouraging that chairman wilbur mills of the ways and means committee has cosponsored identical legislation in the house. the second bill which i have today joined senator magnuson in introducing would authorize the states to suspend the "120 percent" requirement for the 13week extension of emergency benefits payable under the federalstate extended unemployment compensation act of 1970. until . states have been required to suspend these payments if the unemployment rate falls below 120 percent of the rate of the preceding quarter. as i indicated in my june 5 letter to the secretary of labor. the 1970 act as  written is geared only to handle sharp or rapid surges in employment. seven states where unemployment has continued on a plateaueven though at a high levelhave lost these entitlements since late last year. new jersey itself could soon face a similar prospect: even though unemployment is at 7.3 percentfar above the nations averageit has leveled off at 122 percent of the previous quarter. or within 2 percentage points of the mandated cutoff. new jersey is. therefore. in jeopardy of losing entitlement to both these benefits as well as those contained in the 1971 act which expires this month. i believe it would be unconscionable. both in terms of the human hardships involved and in view of the already severe claims upon the resources of state and local governments. to permit these federally financed emergency programs to lapse or become suspended at this.time. i hope that congress will act speedily on these two bills.
. yesterday. i joined senator magnuson in offering an amendment to the debt ceiling bill to eliminate totally those restrictions which presently bar the payment of extended unemployment compensation benefits in all except three states and puerto rico. the senate approved the magnuson amendment. the federalstate extended unemployment compensation act. enacted in 1970. was designed to deal with the thenrapid surge in unemployment that this country was experiencing. accordingly. it specified that this 13week extension of unemployment benefits could  be paid unless a states unemployment rate was sharply increasingin technical terms. the rate has to be at least 120 percent of the rate prevailing in that state in the 2 previous years. the present law simply does  apply to. or deal with. the persistent degree of high unemployment that many states are presently experiencing. in fact. the unanticipated effect of the 1970 law has been to end entitlement in those very states where unemployment has levelled off on a high plateau. in effect. the thousands of jobless exhausting their 26 weeks of state benefits are told that the degree of unemployment does  matter. they are told that they are entitled to extended benefits only if conditions are becoming stil worse at an everincreasing pace.  we are paying the price of this oversight in the 1970 law. twenty states. all with unemployment rates high egh otherwise to entitle them to these extended benefits. have been triggered out of entitlement solely because of a levelingoff in these rates. truly. this represents a cruel "catch22" logic that i am certain the congress never intended. in my own state of new jersey. unemployment stands at 7.3 percent of the work forcefar above the national average and above the rate of a year ago. yet on august 18 of this year. 24.000 workers in my state lost their entitlement to these extended benefits because the ecoic situation is improved. but because conditions have  gotten worse at a fast egh pace to satisfy the requirements of existing law. jobless workers in new jersey have been exhausting their mal state unemployment benefits at a constant rate of 10.000 per month. as in many other states. most will have other recourse except to go on the welfare rollsand this at a time when state and local governments across the country literally have their backs against the wall financially. the federal government finances 50 percent of the cost of this program of benefits. i urge the house to join the senate in correcting the oversight in the present law by striking entirely the "120 percent requirement" of the federalstate unemployment compensation act of
. i join senator javits in offering an amendment to the debt ceiling bill to totally eliminate those restrictions which will on june 30 end the payment of extended unemployment compensation benefits. the federalstate extended unemployment compensation act. enacted in 1970. was designed to deal with the thenrapid surge in unemployment that this country was experiencing. accordingly. it specified that this 13week extension of unemployment benefits could  be paid unless a states unemployment rate was sharply increasingin technical terms. the rate has to be at least 20 percent of the rate prevailing in that state in the 2 previous years. the present law simply does  apply to. or deal with. the persistent degree of "high unemployment that many states are presently experiencing. in fact. the unanticipated effect of the 1970 law has been to end entitlement in those very states where unemployment has leveled off on a high plateau. in effect. the thousands of jobless exhausting their 26 weeks of state benefits are told that the degree of unemployment does  matter. they are told that they are entitled to extended benefits only if conditions are becoming still worse at an everincreasing pace.  we are paying the price of this oversight in the 1970 law. 29 states. all with unemployment rates high egh otherwise to entitle them to these extended benefits. will lose out strictly because their rates happen to have leveled off. truly. this represents a cruel "catch22" logic that i am certain the congress never intended. in my own state of new jersey. unemployment stands at 7.3 percent of the work forcefar above the national average and equal to the level of a year ago. yet on june 30. over 20.000 workers in my state will lose their entitlement to these extended benefits because the ecoic situation has improved but because conditions have  gotten worse at a fast egh pace to satisfy the requirements of existing law. in all. the u.s. department of labor estimates that a total of 118.800 unemployed workers in new jersey will be eligible for these payments in the year ahead if this restriction is removed. as in the other 28 states involved. most of these jobless will have other recourse except to go on the welfare rollsand this at a time when state and local governments across the country are hard pressed financially. the federal government finances 50 percent of the cost of this program of benefits. in the fall of last year. i and a number of my colleagues managed to have enacted a temporary waiver of this restriction which subsequently enabled the payment of these extended benefits. unless we act. this waiver will expire on june 30. once again. i urge my colleagues to rectify this oversight in the present law and support our amendment to strike permanently the "120percent requirement" of the federalstate unemployment compensation act of 1970.
. i join senator javits in submitting this amendment to eliminate totally those restrictions which will. on december 29. end the payment of extended unemployment compensation benefits. the federalstate extended unemployment compensation act. enacted in 1970. was designed to deal with the thenrapid surge in unemployment that this country was experiencing. accordingly. it specified that this 13week extension of unemployment benefits could  be paid unless a states unemployment rate was sharply increasingin technical terms. the rate has to be at least 120 percent of the rate prevailing in that state in the 2 previous years. the present law simply does  apply to. or deal with. the persistent degree of high unemployment that many states are presently experiencing. in fact. the unanticipated effect of the 1970 law has been to end entitlement in those very states where unemployment has leveled off on a high plateau. in effect. the thousands of jobless exhausting their 26 weeks of state benefits are told that the degree of unemployment does  matter. they are told that they are entitled to extended benefits only if conditions are becoming still worse at an everincreasing pace.  we are paying the price of this oversight in the 1970 law. at least 24 states. all with unemployment rates high egh otherwise to entitle them to these extended benefits. will lose out strictly because their rates happen to have leveled off. truly. this represents a cruel "catch22" logic that i am certain the congress never intended. in my own state of new jersey. unemployment stands at 6 percent of the work forcefar above the national average. yet. on december 29. over 25.000 workers in my state will lose their entitlement to these extended benefits. and adjustments that may have to be made because of the energy crisis indicate that these figures may be extremely conservative. in all. the new jersey department of labor and industry estimates that at least 150.000 unemployed workers in new jersey will be eligible for these payments in the year ahead if this restriction is removed. as in the other 23 states involved. most of these jobless will have other recourse except to go on the welfare rollsand this at a time when state and local governments across the country are hard pressed financially. the federal government finances 50 percent of the cost of this program of benefits. in june of this year. i and a number of my colleagues secured a temporary waiver of this restriction which subsequently enabled the payment of these extended benefits. unless we act. this waiver will expire on december 29. once again. i urge my colleagues to rectify this oversight in the present law and support our amendment to strike permanently at the "120percent requirement" of the federalstate unemployment compensation act of 1970.
. i ask unanimous consent to print in the record a combined statement for my wife and myself of our assets and liabilities at the end of 1973 and our income for that year. this is the 12th such report.
i have  anything to add. really. this bill has been very carefully worked out. as the senator from west virginia could have said if he did . it represents a great deal of intense labor and cooperation between the members of the house and the committee and its leader.  would  agree that we may have to consider a supplemental for amtrak. possibly later this year.
i thank my chairman. i join with him and my colleague in opposing this amendment. i opposed last year an amendment to strike a provision like the one that the senator from nebraska has offered. it would be most unfortunate. as the secretary of labor has said. for us to do this. the smaller the plant. the smaller the establishment of the employer. the more important this legislation is. large plants. large companies. have a situation which organized labor. in general. can effectively take care of safety and other requirements. it is the small. uganized operation where this is terribly important. therefore. i join my colleagues in opposing the amendment. i hope it will be defeated. as i hope any other amendment based upon even a smaller number of employees will be defeated. i invite attention to the statement by the secretary of labor that if this amendment should be adopted or if any amendment based upon the number of employees in a plant should be adopted. he would feel obliged to recommend a veto of the appropriation bill. i thank my colleague.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the following combined statement for my wife and myself of our assets and liabilities at the end of 1974 and our income for that year. this is our 13th such report:
. the following is a combined statement for my wife and me of our assets and liabilities at the end of 1976 and our income for that year. this is our 15th such report: assets cash in checking and savings accounts (after provision for federal income tax for 1976). approximately ---------------------$65. 000 life insurance policies with the following insurers (currently providing for death benefits totaling $140.500): u.s. group life insurance. aetna life ins. co.. conn. general life ins. co.. conn. mutual life ins. co.. travelers insurance co. continental assurance co.. equitable life assurance soc.. provident mutual life ins. co. of philadelphia cash surrender value ---------------58. 339 retirement contract with federal employees retirement system (providing for single life annuity effective january 3. 1979 of $45.996 per annum). senator cases own contribution to the fund total. without interest ---------------- 58. 666 annuity contracts with teachers insurance and annuity association and college retirement equities fund. as at 12/31/76 these contracts (estimated to provide a life annuity10year guaranteed periodeffective january 1979 of $1.973) had an accumulation value of ------------------------16. 121 securities as listed in schedule a__ 465.297 house in washington. d.c. (original cost plus capital expenditures) --- 66. 604 tangible personal property in rahway and washington. estimated-- 15. 000 liabilities: e.
. the following are the amendments to be offered to h. r. 2157 by me: [matter proposed to be stricken in black brackets. new matter in italicsl on page 4. line 15: "(e) in any action. whether or  commenced prior to the effective date of rules and regulations to be promulgated by the secretary of labor under this act. the employer may plead and prove that the act or omission complained of was done or omitted in good faith consistent with. required by.  or in reliance on any decision of a court of erecord] final appeal in connection with which such employer was a party in interest. or any administrative regulp.tion. order. ruling. interpretation. approval. enforcement policy. or practice. "such a defense. if established. shall be a bar to the action. withstanding that after such act or omission. such decision. administrative regulation. order. ruling. interpretation. approval. enforcement policy. or practice is modified. rescinded. or determined by judicial authority to be invalid or of legal effect. "the secretary of labor shall have power to make. issue. amend. and rescind such regulations and orders as are necessary or appropriate to carry out any of the provisions of the fair labor standards act of 1938. the regulations and orders of the secretary of labor shall be published in the federal register and shall be effective upon publication or at such later date as the secretary of labor shall direct. provision of the fair labor standards act of 1938 imposing any liability shall apply to any act done or omitted in conformity with any regulation or order of the secretary of labor withstanding that such regulation may. after such act or omission. be amended or rescinded or be determined by judicial authority to be invalid for any reason. "sec. 3. action. or proceeding of any kind whether or  commenced prior to the effective date of this act. shall be maintained to the extent that such action is based upon failure of an employer to pay an employee for activities heretofore or hereafter engaged in by such employee. covered by a collective bargaining agreement then in effect. other than those activities which at the time of such failure were required to be paid for either by custom or practice of such employer at the plant or other place of employment of such employee or by express agreement at the time in effect between such employer and such employee or his collectivebargaining representative. or upon the failure of an employer to pay any other employee for activities heretofore or hereafter engaged in by such employee. other than those activities which at the time of such failure were specifically required to be paid for either by custom or practice of the particular industry most nearly applicable to such activities. or by express agreement at the time in effect between such employer and such employee."
. i have consistently advocated the need for maintaining a federal labor conciliation service of the highest and most efficient type to help settle labormanagement disputes. if we are to have labor peace we must provide such an agency. on the one hand to strike out the appropriation for the top direction of the united states conciliation service and on the other to ask for labor peace is an irreconcilable position.. i am opposed to sweeping labor legislation setting back the clock for labor. and i am for legislation .which will deal with specific injustices that may have arisen in the course of the years which affect the public interest. i believe such a policy to have been the true mandate of the people last ember 5. an essential element in such a policy is the maintenance. unimpaired. of at least the machinery for conciliation which we have. and its strengthening and improvement. an appropriation bill should  be made a vehicle for crippling this vital service at this time.
 may exercise his powers through any government department. or through a special officer for that purpose. and fifth. and this is very important. management is  just to continue to operate at its own profit or loss. as often has been the case in previous seizures of industrial property. but the government is required to pay just compensation. it will. however. be paying compensation for use of the property in a struck or nearstruck condition. and  for the use of the property in a goingconcern condition. because that is the only time the government takes it over. this amendment sums up the basis of my whole opposition to this bill. that is why i made it a point to speak on this section dealing with strikes imperiling public health and safety. this billand i say this  invidiously. for i think the bill is expertly drawn. from the point of view of the draftsmen. to button it up in order to carry out their ideasbut the policy of the bill trades on the fear of the american peoplea very real fear and a very justifiable fearthat any labor group might paralyze the countrys ecoy by a strike. whether it be in coal. steel. railroads telephones. or tugboats. i agree. and i think every member of this house agrees. that the public interest is what we are here to protectit. and it alone. is paramount to every other interest. i have therefore proposed an amendment to the bill which will enable us to serve the public interest. public utility or essential industry should be permitted to paralyze the community at the will of the employees who work in it. or of their leaders. or of the employer. i urge that what we should have done if we really wanted to serve the public interest was to pass a bill which would carry into effect some such scheme as i have proposed to deal with strikes imperiling the public health or security. it need  necessarily have been mine. it could have been any other: but some such bill should have been passed to first relieve the people of their perfectly understandable fear of national stoppage. then we should have brought in bills to deal with such things as union democracy and responsibility. moolistic boycotts. jurisdictional strikes. and additional unfair labor practices. then we would be undertaking regulation of laborunion organization and practice and reforms in collective bargaining.  driven by public fear but as statesmen. what is being attempted here is what was attempted in the portaltoportal pay bill. and i argued against it then. too. as a matter of statesmanship. i said then. and i repeat . because it applies equally to this bill. this is  statesmanlike legislation. it is legislation driven by fear and vindictiveness. it is legislation with a cutlass.  a scalpel the result qf kking out industrywide bargaining will be the pulverization of labor unions. you do  simply break down the area of the unions activity by this bill. you pulverize them. the absolute restriction on employees contributions to welfare funds cripples many unions in their mal collectivebargaining activities with a long background of good precedents. the riddling of the safeguards of the rislaguardia act. permitting by this bill the widespread issuance of injunctions against employees in labor disputes. nullifies at a stroke a reform for which the rank and file of labor fought for two generations. these are aside from other objectionable features of the bill already enumerated in detail on this floor relating to the special restrictions on the union shop and other matters.
i k what i am talking about in matters affecting labor. for i myself am the son of a workingman. my father was an operator on boys knee pantsthat means he sewed the seams on pants. when i was a boy i was told that before the days when unions in the clothing industry amounted to much. my father worked in a shop for 14 hours a day during the season. he carried his own machine on his back. supplied his own thread and his own needles and for all of this he received just about a current living wage. but the season lasted just 4 months. and for the other 8 months he had the privilege of starving to death. i say that what you are doing in this bill in the pulverization of labor unions and in the destruction of gains made by working people for 50 years. is of a nature to bring back those sweatshop and substandard conditions. american wants that to happen.
. i do  think i need to impress upon the members of this house the importance of this legislation to my district. just about 99and as many 9s as anyone would like to addpercent of the people of my district rent apartments. and any increase in rents will hit them extremely hard and right between the eyes. the average income of the people of my district is about $2.500 to $3.000 per year. so. in considering this bill. perhaps i can see even a little better than some of my colleagues who represent farming communities and who might  feel so keenly the effect of legislation such as we are considering. the hobsons choice we have in this bill. because that is exactly what it ishobsons choice.
. i am introducing a bill today renewing the proposal made by senator flanders and myself last january to ration meat. the impending shortages of meat are even greater than were anticipated earlier this year. the facts indicate that against a mal demand. based on present consumer income levels. estimated at 160 pounds a year. the supply will be about 145 pounds in 1948. we may be looking forward to $2 per pound for meat. instead of the present $1 per pound.
i am sorry  standby powers.  only for rationing. but for the allocation of meat at all levels of supply with the idea of distributing meat around the country fairly. secondly. this bill gives the power of rationing at wholesale levels and locally so that all income levels may have equal advantage of such supply of meat as is available. and so that the available meat may  be confined just to those with large incomes who can buy at these high prices.
. there is always the possibility that this special session will be succeeded by yet aher one. when we go home. let us at least remember the fundamentals and review with our constituentsworkers. management. and farmerswhere the real trouble lies. everybody is getting histhat is understandable but true. corporate profits are fabulous. farm income is fabulous. we have had three rounds of wage increases and it looks as though we may be up for a fourth round. the greatest corrective of inflation would be to stop the wageprice spiral by agreements among management. workers. and farmersfounded on industrial statesmanship. if that is too much to hope for it will take legislative actionand far more drastic than the palliatives proposedto save the country from a depression so much worse than that of the thirties as to threaten to shatter our whole society. if we are to go home. let us at least think it over.
i thank the gentleman. but the gentlemans figures with respect to poland deal with the overall situation there in general terms. those figures do  tell about the condition of life of the polish workers. or about the per capita income of the individual in poland or about how he lives. all of which is an open book. as the gentleman himself has just demonstrated with respect to italy.
. this is  a relief program for the nations of europe. we decided that last year. it should  be made a relief program for the farmers of the united states who have enjoyed the greatest income that they have had in many years. i hazard the guess that the great bulk of the farmers of the united states k that their best interest lies in a prosperous america. a prosperous europe. and  in these rather small maneuvers for a few million dollars of special returns to be inserted in this particular bill.
s finding as to the underdeveloped character of the worlds ecoy. it has been authoritatively estimated that the average per capita income in the world is in the area of $70 per year in terms of united states 1946 dollars compared with which the united states enjoyed a per capita income in 1946 of about $1.200. the general average even of highly industrialized countries like great britain and france is in the area of $300 to $400 per year. successful agricultural countries like argentina enjoy substantially the same annual per capita income. while countries like mexico. italy. and chile enjoy annual per capita incomes of about $200 per year. with china. india. and some of the middle eastern countries coming at the bottom of the scale with annual per capita incomes as low as $40 a year. the united nations department of ecoic affairs. in a report published early this year. said that industrial output in most wardevastated countries was approaching or had already exceeded prewar levels. but this was only because existing plant and manpower resources were being utilized at near capacity. yet we all k that shortages. austerity. and difficulties are still harrassing most of the world other than a few areas in th and south america and oceania.
all i am trying to do by my amendment is to restore the language of the act which has been thoroughly interpreted. what you are seeking to do here by the substitute is something that one has argued for before. because. unless members vote for my amendment to restore basic coverage of the lucas substitute back to the coverage of the act as it stands . it is definitely an effort to take thousands and thousands of employees out from under this act who should  be out from under it. this is the acid test. this will tell us whether or  the proponents of the lucas substitute are serious when they say it is clear and precise and clarifying. or whether their intention really is to restrict the operation of the present law and to take thousands of people out from under the protection of the fair labor standards act. as indeed this word "indispensable" in the lucas substitute will do.
. i shall support this bill. it is a necessary and prudent measure and well within our means. i have always favored the extension and expansion of the socialsecurity system. i think it is especially eworthy and i am very glad to see that the selfemployed have been included in the bill. as well as employees of state and local governments and employees of profit institutions. although i would have liked to see the profit institutions fully under the system like other employers. i am glad to e that the word "employee" is redefined to include salesmen and certain other employees. also that the benefits have been materially increased for those who are under the oldage and survivors insurance. and that the limitation on their monthly earnings is materially increased under this bill. the fundamental ecoic basis provided for our society by the socialsecurity system is of vital importance to domestic stability and to the strength of our position in the world. for this strength rests on a people confident of their capacity to produce. and to look to their future security and provide for it. the socialsecurity system as a base is improved by this bill. real and further progress toward adequate security due to old age. sickness. or disability rests on the efforts of industry in all its component parts. this is one of the great challenges to our privateenterprise system. how to provide adequate security and to coordinate it with the socialsecurity system for the best benefit of our people. at the convention of the american federation of labor in miami in february of this year. that unions executive council issued a statement which has special significance at this time. they said: to the extent that real social security is provided for the american people. the freeenterprise system will become correspondingly secure against ideological attacks.
as the act is  incorporated in the conference report. ig there a declaration of policy that the administrator shall seek. insofar as practicable. to bring the minimum wage in the virgin islands and puerto rico up to the continental standard.
i would just like to say that the people of my district feel just as the people from the district of the gentleman from new york . they are against the 90percentfixedparity price legislation. may i point this out to the gentleman: much has been made of the increase in the minimum wage. it is a fact that a factory workers income has doubled in the cities since before the war. but it is a fact. too. that the aggregate farm income has about quadrupled in the same period.
 is given authority.  direction. and may act through an officer or department. i call on the committee on education and labor to immediately hold hearings on h. r. 5006 as this is a practicaland indeed liberalplan for dealing immediately and realistically with the emergency created for the nation by the coal strike. it will be recalled that as far back as the original consideration of the tafthartley law in 1947which i was againsti offered amendments and argued for just such national seizure provisions as are contained in my bill. i was convinced then as i am  that the security of the nation was paramount to all other considerations and that this security required residual power in the community to continue to operate in the event of labor difficulty of a national emergency character. and that a plan for this purpose could be practicably effectuated which neither made men work by injunction or force. or immobilized the government from action.
. i rise in opposition to the pro forma amendment. it seems to me there are two persuasive reasons for turning down both the kersten and lucas amendments. one is the recognition of what is the real function of the wage stabilization board during this national emergency and why it is considered to be effective. the other is this question of labormanagement tranquillity which has been discussed between my colleague. the gentleman from kentucky and my colleague the gentleman from pennsylvania . the effectiveness of the wage stabilization board is that it is the symbol of the defense effort. that is why. on the ground of patriotism. just like the war labor board during world war ii. it is able to do things in industrial disputes which the other established agencies. such as the national mediation board and the national labor relations board. are  as effectively able to do. the wage stabilization board is a symbol of our fight against communism. and working people and management will do more for a board like that. that is carrying that symbol in the country. than they might with other agencies to which they are more accustomed in mal times. . with reference to this question of tranquillity: as i see it. that is the fundamental argument why these functions  in the wage stabilization board should remain where they are. in our country we certainly have reason to feel that we are going to have to draft workingmen to cooperate and be effective in the defense effort. they have shown their willingness to work for defense to anyones satisfaction.
that is exactly right. there is compulsion about any of these agencies. the wage stabilization board at the least has the impact of being a defense agency. as i see this effort in these two amendments. it is hing less than an effort to reverse. by force of law. the result of a struggle which took place between labor and management only a few months ago in respect to the powers and functions of this very wage stabilization board. if we are going to get anywhere in this country without compulsion. in a great production effort of this character. and show that we are different from the slave states. which we are fighting. we must be willing to let any struggle which involves some 16.000.000 workers in trade unions and thousands of business firmswe must let such a struggle be resolved if at all possibleby peaceful means. by means of collective bargaining. let us leave this resolution of the dispute alone. the difficulty with these amendments is that they are inviting aher strike when one has just been settled. if it has been settled and the struggle between the forces has resulted in arriving at some equilibrium in the wage stabilization board. i say let us  try to reverse the result of that settlement by law. which is exactly what is being attempted on this floor today with these amendments. that is the nub of the proposition. are we going to try to reverse. by force of law today. what has just been settled as to the wage stabilization board after so much effort and so much danger to the country but some short weeks ago.
we have had this problem many times. the congress is in these years almost always in session. we k when to put a stop to things which go wrong. right  we are at what defense mobilizer charles e. wilson properly calls the hump of trying to do a big defense job. the argument is being made today that we should reverse one of the most important areas of agreement on this job. which is the equilibrium between labor and management in the wage stabilization board which has just been arrived at. i can think of few things which would retard the defense effort more.
 at all.  any more so than settlements by any other mediation agency. in fact the tripartite character of the wage stabilization board and the active participation of organized labor in the boards work assure effective collective bargaining.
this is a real squeeze on labor. is it . because if you leave out rents and food prices. you are leaving out 60 percent of the cost of living. if they are  frozen. and wages are frozen. it is labor that takes the squeeze.
 signed yesterday was the creation of a consumers ecoy in our country and  a producers ecoy or a middlemans ecoy which is pretty much what the act accomplishes. we have heard before and we probably will again hear complaints in the house when wol king people come around for wage increases. let us remember that the amended defense production act very carefully cuts around the whole agriculturalprice structure and that food prices can still go up being based on agricultural prices for which ceilings can be established except when they reach 100 percent of parity and this omits right  such staples as wheat. corn. and citrus fruits. meat prices far above parity and under ceilings can be rolled back in any way according to this amended act. if we honestly want price and wage stabilization. and i emphasize both. we had better understand we are in business every day and should adopt some very practical amendments to the defense production act and do it as promptly as possible. amendments to the act in the pricewagestabilization provisions are certainly needed as to slaughtering quotas. rollbacks. markups. and agriculturalprice exemptions. then and then only can anyone ask why. when wage earners askas they must under the present situationfor wage increases.
. i would like to emphasize that this amendment relates only to community facilities and services. it does  have to do with other titles of the bill  concerned with those facilities. it deals with libraries. daycare centers. hospitals. recreational. and similar installations. i feel that in respect to mortgages which are insured or guaranteed. we have gone through this debate before and there is point. i think. in going through it again. this community facilities matter is. i consider. a rather new situation as i will attempt to describe to the house in the next few minutes. therefore. i feel it needs to be acted on anew. it needs to be discussed and considered and  rejected because of silence.
. i give great credit for this to the work of the new york state congressional delegation. of which i have the ho to be a member. and of which my colleague is my alternate. under the chairmanship of representative emanuel celler. of new york. i hope very much other eastern states will e the need  only for having labor and management sharpen their pencils. but also for having the total congressional delegations work hard at the process of encouraging defense orders and for having industry and business in those states take advantage of the opportunities presented by the productive facilities of those states.
i do  recall that i agreed on the program. and i do  recall that it has been the accepted program by committee action. i do  want to get into any hassle on this matter. i am afraid that the senators temper is a little bit shorter than mine. i had desire. and i do  have the reputation in the senate. for being violently partisan. i had some differences with the senator from new mexico. and what i am trying to do is make an effort to arrive at some agreement upon them. i have asked the senator from michigan a very civil question as to whether he feels that we should employ our time in committee to try to agree upon them
. the gentlewoman from new york sponsored an amendment in the committee on foreign affairs which resulted in introducing the authorization for appropriation which  comes before us as an appropriation. she is. i understand. unavoidably detained from reaching the floor. so i take the liberty of responding to the gentleman from pennsylvania . my own interest in this particular problem stems from the fact that i have offered a bill to extend the policy we have followed in the displaced persons program. and to take some fair share of this surplus labor of the free nations of europe which would prove to be a tremendously useful reservoir of workers for the united states which we need at this time. as to the serious nature of this problem. which i think the house should be familiar with. because it will come up again. this is the beginning of what ought to be a real contribution to the solution of free europes problems. in germany it is admitted that perhaps as nettling a problem as german federal government. which we are anxious to put on its feet in democratic terms. has to meet is the problem of 9.000.000 germans who were expellees from the eastern provinces and borders. many living in refugee camps without work or a place to which they can turn their talents. naturally it is a fertile field for demogogues to try to incite some government in germany to recapture the eastern provinces by force. that is the german picture. and it is important to give that situation an opportunity for outlet in the way which we propose to begin by this bill to give an opportunity elsewhere in the world for effective workers. in italy one of the grave problems which absolutely hampers any form of recovery of the italian ecoy is the existence of an estimated 2.000.000 surplus workers. do  be fooled by the unemployment figures in italy. the fact is there is overemployment in practically all italian industries. a great many more are often employed in factories and other plants than are actually needed. this is one of the most critical problems of our time. we feel and justly that we have done a fine job for free europe under the eca. yet we have  fully done it until we help them deal with this problem of surplusworking population. while at the same time helping other countries where effective labor power is very much needed.
 he has done a grand service in connection with eliminating age limitations on hiring in the civil service. that certainly is the first thing anyone will ask for. but i think it should be emphasized here by those of us who have worked in this field. and there are many outside of the gentleman from illis and myself. that the big job. the greatest job. has to be done by american industry. it can be done wholly by the government. it takes actual retraining facilities. it takes special people and plants to determine what jobs people can carry on as they grow older in different types of jobs. it takes a readjustment of the pension systems and profitsharing systems. one of the big objections met in the surveys i have made of american industry as to why they can hire older people. i think by this provision with respect to the civil service we can give an impetus to american business to really handle this problem. american business has a chance to solve one of the most admirable public relations problems and can contribute greatly to community usefulness. but it will  be done by speeches. it has to be done plant by plant. very hard work. i urge very much that the chamber of commerce. the association of manufacturers. and the other agencies do the pilot plant work to show their members just how these older citizens can be effectively utilized with great benefit to the country and with great benefit to industry itself. it has been the experience of a great many employers that older workers have less absenteeism and less accidents than younger workers. our unemployment pool is down practically to a minimum and the postwar establishment of so many new families cuts down the -number of women who can go into defense production. the older worker and the handicapped therefore become a most important part of the manpower available for this purposeit is significant that estimates of the manpower category which includes older workers is about half of the total estimated available manpower supply to meet the dofense emergency. i am inserting in the appendix today a letter of the civil service commission dated march 7. 1952. pursuant to my request which shows some progress in eliminating age limitations on civilservice jobs but does  go nearly far egh or as far as the amendment of the gentleman from illis would take us on the road to really doing something constructive for our older citizens.
 and confirmed by the senate to represent the public. fifth. that the government is to pay only just compensation for its use of the seized property. is to operate it for the account of the united states. and is  to operate it for the account of the employer as if it were a going concern. and sixth. that the property is to be restored to its owners within 30 days after the restoration of such labor relations as would permit production required for the national security or health. i wish to emphasize again that the situation with which my bill proposes to deal is  confined to the steel situation but that it is intended to deal with any national emergency in defense mobilization involving continued necessary production. having carried on this effort to establish a national policy for seizure and operation of critical industrial facilities since 1947. i feel that the injunction provisions of the tafthartley act on this subject have shown themselves to be negative and inadequate to the problem. the provisions of section 18 of the selective service act are so general as to be inadequate. e of these regulates an absolute exercise of power on the part of the executive which is the responsibilitly of the congress.
i do . because collective bargaining is a matter for employees and employer in respect of which they should be left free. what i am concerned with is the national welfarethe interests of all the people. i believe only that in the ultimate analysis. when the plant or facility must operate or the nation is in grave peril. somehow or other it is our duty to see that it does operate. that is all i say. that is something congress has  dealt with. it has just avoided that issue. i do  think we are in the position we ought to be in to complain unless we deal with that issue. there is still time and it can be done . congress can take the authority into its own hands but it must at the same time take the responsibility to prescribe a solution.
. this amendment proposes only to add to the duties of the joint committee on defense production under section 712 of the existing law. also kn as the watchdog committee. the additional duty of study "of the fairness to consumers of the prices authorized by this act." this duty being in addition to the duty of the committee as presently authorized to study and review the program under the act. the bill is essentially one to protect consumes against inflation. everyone is a consumer but in addition there are millions of pure consumers in our country among the adult population. for example. there are 4.500.000 socialsecurity annuitants. 6.000.000 government workers and approximately 2.500.000 receiving veterans compensations and pensions in the shape of disability and death benefits. in addition. there are millions of widows. orphans and retired persons living on fixed incomes. to this number may be added the almost 25.000.000 who are kn as white collar workers and whose salaries traditionally lag behind living costs. under my amendment the watchdog committee would study the impact upon them of the prices allowed under the defense production act. i believe that this amendment is especially necessary in view of the evident temper of the house and senate for widespread decontrol of prices while leaving the machinery for price and wage stabilization. this has  been accomplished in the bill  before the house but probably will be before it becomes law in view of the general temper of both houses. my amendment takes on an added significance and importance under these circumstances.
i would like to answer the gentleman. i think a minimum wage in the united states by law is absolutely vital and necessary but is without relevancy to this issue. mr. h. carl andersen. i think the gentleman should admit they go hand in hand.
. together with my colleagues. the gentleman from connecticut and the gentleman from pennsylvania . i am today introducing a bill to prohibit discrimination in employment because of age. i hope very much that members will give serious attention to the age problem. it is anticipated that the number of those over 65. who  number about 11 million. will by 1975 come close to doubling. being about 18 million. the problem facing our older citizens who have given their best years to building of our country is mainly the lack of opportunity for productive work. they are nuch too soon considered to be obsolescent by american business and industry. and denied equal opportunity for employment or forced into retirement. half of them live on social security or other small incomes. i feel that this problem of our older citizens is one to which the congress should direct its attention. especially with a view to constructive activities in the way of selfhelp and of work opportunity for people regardless of their age. so long as they can do the job. this bill will make it an unlawful employment practice for an employer "to refuse to hire. to discharge. or otherwise to discriminate against any individual with respect to his terms. conditions. or privileges of employment. otherwise lawful because of the individuals age." the administrator of the wage and hour division of the department of labor is given the necessary authority to issue ceaseanddesist orders and to bring about reinstatement or hiring with or without back pay. judicial review is provided for as are processes of conciliation. technical advice. and other aids to employer and employee. the bill is intended to deal with the problems of those over 45 who are seeking employment and also to deal with the problem of forced retirement of effective employees at some arbitrary age level. hing in the bill prevents assessments of health. strength. hardihood. and similar job requirements. the bill deals with one of the fundamental problems facing our older citizens. that of the ability to continue at productive work. it is a basis for a solution to the other problems affecting our older citizensrehabilitation and retraining. housing. recreation and retirement. including pensions and social security. there have been some outstanding examples of the utilization of older workers in business and industry. and these are very laudable. according to the united states census bureau. over 70 percent of our citizens 65 and over have less than $1.000 a year in money income. sixty years ago 68 percent of all men over 65 were in gainful employment. yet this figure has dropped to around the 40percent mark . those who have employed older workers have testified to their steadiness and reliability. to their low absentee and accident records. problems of fitting them into existing private pension systems. which seem to militate so heavily against their employment are problems of mechanics and assume a lack of recognition on the part of the older worker himself as to what is fair to him and to other employees. the problems do  begin to compare in importance with the social implications of age discrimination in employment and forced retirement.
does the gentleman feel it is low wage scales and working conditions as compared with those elsewhere on the mainland which keep away the puerto rican worker or does the gentleman feel that they just do  want to work in that area. after all. they do need rewarding work. that is evident by the conditions of the movement from puerto rico.
that is exactly my point. this discussion bears out the validity of the fact that this ought to be a 1year extension. that we ought to do better on our domestic labor supply than we have done. the worker from puerto rico must make a comparison with what he can earn elsewhere on the mainland.  in puerto rico.
in the first place. i am with the gentleman on the 1year extension. and i shall vote the same way. i would like to ask the gentleman whether he can tell us the difference. legally. between what has ben said here that the puerto rican worker can leave. if he wants to. and the mexican worker can if he wants to. and what is the practical effect of this regulation under which he comes in making him work even if he does  want to work.
i would say to the gentleman that i would thoroughly agree that we certainly should  help the russian ecoy with any dollar income for caviar. as a matter of fact. the whole purpose of my speech here today is to indicate that if we want to take trade away from the whole communist bloc and concentrate it in the free world we have got to integrate the free world. including ourselves. so that we are able to do it. i think it is very important that those of us who express most alarm about any trade with the communist bloc. by ourselves and other nations. recognize that we have got to have other channels of trade and that therefore it is a liberal. rather than an illiberal. policy on matters like the reciprocal trade agreements act. which is vital to the policy of this country.
. i have received statements in opposition to this bill from a. e. lyon. executive secretary. railway labor executives association. and ernest h. benson. national legislative representative. brotherhood of maintenance of way employees. which follow:
the commissioner of labor of our state. edward corsi. kn throughout the country. feels that this is one of the major problems of the labor departments of the states. and that what the gentleman recommends is absolutely needed by the states. i will support the gentlemans amendment. . i believe that this proposal of the administration is sound. we have had this problem of agricultural migrants in our country since the beginning of the century. these people migrate because the farmer needs them to harvest seasonal crops and because they need work to support their families. they are without doubt among the most underprivileged of any group of workers in this great country. we pride ourselves. and rightly so. on the progress we have made in insuring the workers of america a high standard of living and the basic security to which we feel the american worker is entitled. but little or e of these privileges are accorded the migrant. in my state of new york. we have worked for years on this program and we have made progress. there is still much to be done and we k that since many problems are interstate in character that we can go only so far unless similar action is taken in other states. this is essentially a labor problem and edward corsi. the outstanding labor commissioner of my state of new york. has stated many times that this is a  1 problem of labor departments and that it is one on which the federal and state government agencies must work together if we are to achieve results. government groups. church. labor. and other voluntary agencies have given wide support to this proposal of the administration to get into action on this front on the national level after a quarter of a century. to vote for this money will  only be a vote toward a better life for the migrants and their families. it will be one way of insuring better and more stable workers for the farmers. we k this from our own experience in new york. i support the amendment of my colleague. the gentleman from pennsylvania .
 eisenhowers message of march 30. 1954. dealing with the further development of trade with the americas and the report of dr. milton s. eisenhowers mission to latin america are all confirmation of the intention of our government in this region. the situation of the world requires closer bondssocial. cultural. ecoic. and militarybetween the united states and the other american republics. the caracas conference and the impending ecoic conference of the organization of american states at rio all signalize this cooperation. the vigorous continuation of the goodneighbor policy requires that one of the american republics be subverted into a totalitarian dictatorship endangering all. it is our duty to the american states to give effective leadership to avoid this threat. what the communists contemplate for us through such a technique as infiltrating the government of guatemala is hing less than neutralization of latin america as an important source of strategic materials for the free world. destruction of properties and businesses there in which united states citizens are interested. disunity in the americas and. if possible. disorder and communist aggression against and subversion of american states. the organization of american states must see that this does  happen but that the american republics may pursue their development and provide forever closer cooperation under the auspices of peace. security. and free institutions. a significant element related to the infiltration of communism into the affairs of the republic of guatemala has been overlooked. it is the interest in guatemala which the communist party spokesman in the united states. the daily worker is displaying. when and how did the daily worker come to have an abiding interest in guatemala which the past few months this organ of the communist partyi say organ because it does  merit the designation of newspaperhas so prominently displayed. let us place the daily worker into the context of that phase of the international communist conspiracy which is at work in our own backyard. from ember 5. 1953. to january 12. 1954. jose manuel fortuny was on a trip to moscow. between october 1. 1953. to ember 29. 1953. victor manuel gutierrez traveled to moscow and back to guatemala. these two top guatemalan communist leaders apparently worked out with international communist strategists a policy decision. that decision would seem to have been for the entire propaganda apparatus of international communism to come to the active support of guatemalan communists. and to extend the danger of communist penetration in that country and in the western hemisphere. pravda enunciated the new policy in an article published in its january 14 issue. the cominform journal. published in bucharest. echoed pravda in its issue of world front organizations. apparently ordered to express their solidarity with guatemalan communism. came to life. in the western hemisphere socalled societies of friends of guatemala were created. and the daily worker. apparently received the party line. and without deviation has followed it to this day as straight as an arrow. one of the first targets. as the daily worker opened its campaign early in february. was the executive council of the american federation of labor. which was accused of teaming up with wall street in a plot against guatemala. almost simultaneously with its attack against the a. f. of l.. john pittman. a daily worker editorial writer. wrote about the second national congress of the communistdominated guatemalan general labor confederation held at guatemala city. he reported that lombardo toleda head of the latin american labor confederation. giuseppi di vittorio. of the italian labor confederation. and luis saillant. of the world federation of trade unions. were present. as a matter of fact it does  appear to be true that all these heads of communistlabor fronts were present. but certainly pittman outlined accurately the nature of the communistlabor front from the top to the guatemalan unit of it. and if all these communist labor leaders were  present physically. certainly they were there in spirit. during february and march the daily worker followed through with basic indoctrination of its readers with international communisms line and rationalization on guatemala. on march 5 a display advertisement appeared in the daily worker anncing a rally on "the guatemala crisis" for march 12 at manhattan plaza. this rally was sponsored by a provisional committee on latinamerican affairs and followed the pattern which had gotten under way in other american republics. during the first part of april the daily worker published a series of six articles by its correspondent who had been sent to guatemala. this correspondent wrote about such themes as these: first. the national peace committee. an offshoot of the communist world front. the berlin peace council. second. the place of communists in guatemala. and particularly of fortuny. who magil described as "one of the founding fathers of the guatemalan republic". third. critical comment on united states labor unions. the united fruit co.. and the department of state. on may 31 the daily worker carried an article from tribuna popular. of guatemala city. described by the daily worker as the organ of the guatemalan workerscommunistparty. this article attempted to justify the surreptitious shipment of arms from behind the iron curtain to guatemala. these are some of the surface facts which are alarming egh. they indicate the close liaison which has been established between the communist press in the united states and the communist press in guatemala and the international design of communism. since communism is essentially subversive and hidden in its attack we have reason to raise many questions and to search for the answers. are there secret channels through which members of the communist.apparatus in this country operate with their coworkers in guatemala and in other parts of latin america. are there agentssome latin americans and others of american nationalitywho maintain contacts in the interests of international communism. and are those agents of united states nationality working against the foreign policy and the vital interests of the united states. the time has come to seek the answers to these significant questions.
 i think the minimum wage. considering the wage level in our country. bears such relation to the worker as the flexible parity support price bears to the farmerit will help and affect many more farmers proportionately and i am glad that it should.
. i would like to say to the gentleman from california. in view of what has. just taken place at the atomicenergy plants concerning labor difficulties. and in view of the fact that this whole effort is absolutely critical to the very future of our country. i shall support the gentlemans amendment. i think this is one amendment that certainly should carry.
is it  a fact that this bill has but 2 salient differences. 1 on the labor provision. which the gentleman mentioned. which would cover every union in the cio. the afl. and the railroad brotherhoods. the united mine workers and similar national labor federations. and as to the outlawing of the communist party. it does  make membership in it a crime but it exercises legislative control over the type of organization which can function as a political party. which the congress has a right to do.
s recent ecoic report states that "shortages of trained manpower exist in virtually every field." to meet the demands of production. expanding as it must to enable us to fulfill our defense obligations as well as provide for a full and prosperous peacetime ecoy. we will need a labor force of 74 million by 1965. an increase of 7 million over the 1956 figure of 67 million. to meet present needs and prepare to meet our skilled labor requirements for the future. we must begin  to tap more fully the 45andover age group. who have the skill. the training. and the desire to continue as useful. productive. and selfreliant members of society. the cosponsors consider this the most desirable bill along the lines sought to be covered. in the national interest.
the senator from new york asks such thing. he is pointing out how it would be possible and practicable. if this amendment should be adopted. completely to frustrate the courts and make the bill meaningless. i should like to make a few observations with respect to an argument which has been made on the issue with respect to labor injunctions.
the senator is making a most significant point. to which i hope very much the american trade union movement will listen. i make that statement with the realization that i. too. have been very favorable toward the union labor movement. having originally voted against the tafthartley act. and having been consistent in that policy during my whole career in public life. in view of the disquieting possibility that  of the great teamsters union. i think at the very least the questions which have been raised before the special senate committee and the country need first to be resolved because of what that kind of leadership position means in the impression conveyed to the american people of the character and respunsibility of the leadership in the trade union field. i should like to congratulate my colleague on his initiative in bringing the question before the public at this time. which he has done tastefully and tactfully. but forcibly.
i should like to join with my colleagues from kansas and kentucky in congratulating the senator from oregon upon his presentation. which i found to be most informed and stimulating. if the senator will indulge me. i should like to say his address proves something. in addition. for the senator from oregon is kn to be an outstanding liberal. and he is demonstrating that liberals k how to be hardheaded and businesslike when they are faced with a very difficult business proposition. i gather hope and pleasure from the fact that the senator has taken the stand he has upon this measure. relating to a great enterprise of a busines- character operated by the united states. in the determination that the post office department shall pay its way so far as humanly possible. that it shall perform humanitarian service where possible. and that it shall pay its employees fair wages and  penalize them because they work for an agency which is associated with the federal government.
the part in this effort which i am playing. and which i have the great ho to share with my colleague from oregon and other senators. is to work hard for a bill which deals with the effort to prohibit discrimination in employment on the ground of age. it is s. 1073. sponsored by my senior colleague from new york . the senator from maine . the senator from kentucky . and myself. at present only five states have statutes on their books against age discrimination in employment. they are massachusetts. pennsylvania. colorado. louisiana. and rhode island. we realize that in the present recession those over 45 are likely to be the first to be laid off from employment. and we also k of the indispensable need for skill and experience. and that there is a tremendous need for the services of these older persons in our country. we also k that this skilled labor force has time and time again been called upon in the course of national need. therefore i am grateful to the eagles for their campaign.
. in my state alone there are about 20.000 persons whose unemployment benefits are rapidly disappearing. certainly they need assistance . i hope the senate will make as much speed in doing that as in doing many other things which are  nearly so well directed at the target.
i believe that one other point must  be overlooked. this is an antirecession measure. and one of the primary things we must guard against in an antirecession measure is the breaking down of the wage pattern in a particular area. that is what the senator from new jersey is trying to prevent. and that is why i have joined with him in the amendment. i might suggest also. as the senator has pointed out so well. that whenever the federal government pledges its credit or makes a direct loan. it has a right to establish the conditions under which the money is to be used. this certainly seems to me to be a reasonable condition in order to attain the federal objective as specified in the law.
i have heard the debate with great interest. as it involves a material legal question. i wish to take a few moments of the senates time to point out what i consider to be the determinative legal point which induces me to vote against the amendment of my dear friend and colleague from colorado. for whom i have high regard and deep respect. i would rather be with him than on the other side. the plans which are sought to be excluded are set up for the beneficiaries. the workers are the beneficiaries. it is an elementary principle of law that a third party beneficiary has the right to accountability. he is seized of an interest in the fund when the fund is created for his benefit. in view of the fact that the scheme adopted in the bill is a practical way of recognizing such accountability. it seems to me that we face that privity of contract and law which entitles us to include these funds under the pending bill. i have had considerable experience with labor. i have been supported by labor in my campaigns for statewide office. for attorney general. and for the senate. i k a great many representatives of labor. some of us like to think that the rank and file do  believe in many of the things which labor leaders advocate. that may be a proper argument for aher day. i shall make my points on the generalized amendments to the bill tomorrow. one thing i am sure of: when it comes to the protection of welfare and pension funds. the rank and file is with all other decent elements of labor in wanting those funds protected. in the most effective way we can devise. with the most condign penalties provided for those who violate their responsibilities to the working people. for those reasons. . i feel that i must vote against the amendment.
mr. presi for appropriate referenc adopted by the board of els. the sale of wayne county. n. y.. favoring enactreatly increased ment of the bill to further y greatly affect- amend the federal civil defense act of of the company 1950. i ask unanimous consent that the nployed at our resolution may be printed in the record. employees. at there being objection. the resoluonly 329 em- tion was referred to the committee on ie biggest factor armed services. and ordered to be print)loyment is the ed in the record. as follows: iade shovels. following with resolution 15 bill h. r. 10368 resolution approving h. r. 7576. an act to ade agreements further amend the federal civil defense our company act of 1950 opposed to the mr. lookup presented the following resolution and moved its adoption: garden tools are "whereas there has been introduced in the s country 20 to congress of the united states a bill kn n sell our tools. as h. r. 7576. which amends the federal civil cut cost in our defense act of 1950. and ices on some of "whereas this bill. in part. amends title i npete with the of said act and provides that the federal ur effort and all civil defense administrator may make he best we have financial contributions to the states for nece our shovels at essary and essential state and local civilde$19 per dozen. fense personnel and administrative expenses coming into the on the basis of approved plans for the civil d $12 per dozen. defense of the states. and be made to re- "whereas the bill further provides that former 30 per- said contribution may equal onehalf of the .s could  so total cost of such necessary and essential the american- state and local civildefense personnel and administrative expenses. and extremely wor- "whereas the county of wayne is in a ne might be for critically important position geographically if foreign tools inasmuch as it is within 20 miles of rochescountry at the ter. which is a prime target area. and has orted. been designated as a support county for the rochester target area. and d. maiel. "whereas wayne county is a rural county tory manager. with a total population of about 60.000. and "whereas the consequent responsibilities apral 16. 1958. devolving upon the county of wayne have created a serious financial problem. and mbers of local "whereas the preamble of the constitukers of america. tion of the united states proclaims that it the 0. ames co.. was established to provide for the common o.. parkersburg. defense. and rned with the "whereas it is the considered opinion of 8 to extend the the board of supervisors of the county of for aher 5 wayne that the federal government should participate more actively in the civildefense nmade shovels program. it is nany and japan "resolved. that the board of supervisors and production of the county of wayne and the state of lihood. and. to a new york strongly urges the congress of the tellbeing of the united states to favorably consider and enupon the pros- act into law h. r. 7576. and it is further rhe employment "resolved. that certified copies of this reslowest level in olution be forwarded to the hoable kenproximately 500 neth b. keating. member of the house of re out of work. representatives from the 38th district of ion in the labor new york. hon. jacob javits. and hon. the volume of irving ives. united states senators repretools imported senting the state of new york. and that did during the they be requested to vigorously urge the passage of h. r. 7576." agreements have motion seconded by mr. brown and on ers so seriously. rollcall was carried. ension of these helen s. gruschow. ears. clerk. .y request that behalf to secure and for us. by 68 for the extenagreements. we iresent situation are forced into nd unrestrained ds. larry miller. ndreds of other 0.)
i agree with the senator from colorado that they should be considered. for example. in the case of united states versus ryan. which went through the united states supreme court. section 302 of the tafthartley act was dealt with. that case is to be found at title 350. united states code. page 299. it was decided in 1956. i point out the similar situation existing in the case of brennan versus united states. in the eighth circuit. in 1957. it is 57 american labor cases 221. i do  make the point that this network of criminal law has been effectively employed or that it has been completely effective against what the senator from colorado has so properly pointed out. but i point out that we have such statutes on our statute books. and they can be employed. that is my point. my feeling that the bill should be passed as it is is based on experience. i served in the other body. in 1949 and 1950. when it dealt with an effort to amend the tafthartley act. which admittedly has its difficulties and needs amendment. i think organized labor itself agrees to that . at that time the other body went through a real ordeal on the wood bill. which subsequently was amended by aher member of the house. and became the sims bill. after the members of the other body had marched up the hill and then down again. and had repeated that process for a really long timeconsidering the practices of that bodythe whole bill was finally recommitted. indeed. in all the period since the tafthartley act was passedas i think the senator from massachusetts himself pointed out this morningwe have been through this experience. whenever an attempt has been made to deal with an overall. broad amendment of the tafthartley act. it has run afoul of the basic complexity which affects the matter when we try to deal with it in an overall way. and has come to naught. i believe the approach we have adopted here is a sensible one. all are agreed that the beneficiaries of a pension fund at long last should be protected by the best safeguards we can devise as ingenious legislators. i believe that by handling the matter in that way. we shall proceed at last to make some measurable progress. step by step. i believe we should consider the fact that when we complain about the hoodlums and racketeers. we have to justfy in our own consciences what we are doing about these matters and whether we are taking effective action. in addition to making speeches about being opposed to sin and crime. what effective action are we taking about these matters. if this bill is passed as it is. and there seems very little disagreement on that score. i k the senator from colorado proposed that it be amended. and he had his day in court. but the vote was roughly two to one against his proposalby means of this beginning we shall be able to answer our own consciences. and shall be able to say that at long last we are doing something eff ective. i believe we should take aher stepfor other measures are needed. as amendments of the tafthartley act. and in respect to the findings which have been made by the mcclellan committeeupon which there can be a large measure of agreement. these include such measures as those for periodic and secret elections of union officers and internal grievance machinery to protect the rights of individuals as union members. perhaps it will be possible to obtain agreement on those matters of substance. which are difficult nuts to crack. until we finally get to the most difficult major issues of national paralysis strikes. organizational picketing. and secondary boycotts. we speak in a context of commitments to go forward in committee and on the floor to act on the tafthartley law amendments at this session of the congress. for those reasons i shall support the bill. as i deeply feel it is the greatest measure of my responsibility to my constituents. to the national interest. and to the national labor movement.
my last question relates to loans and grants. our bill. the bill which was offered by the senator from new jersey . in which a number of senators have joined. is also based upon grants. as is the bill offered by the senator from massachusetts. i state this so that our colleagues will be looking into it. it is something which ought to be called to their attention. i think we are on the soundest possible ground on the grant level. because there is a very trying legal question as to the authority of the states to commit themselves on a loan basis. except as such state action is permitted by the state constitution. and this would represent a negation of the reason why we are providing a federal extension.of unemployment compensation. theoretically. at least. every state could borrow money to take care of its unemployment. it could amend its constitution. many states have large reserves. that is true of new york.. very few states do  have reserves. so to have the federal government step in would be on a disaster basis. we are stepping in for reasons of disaster. the federal government has made disaster loans in other cases. the path for getting help to the people who need it as promptly as possible is through grants. so i ask the senator from massachusetts. who has given the question great studyand i k he is just as much concerned *about finance as is anyone elseif he feels that any legal way has been developed in his state for instance. which could enable us. somehow. to provide a basis for loans without having a roadblock thrown in the way by state laws or state constitutions. which would prevent us from realizing our objective.
i believe i am one of the senators to whom the s2nator from arkansas has referred as among those who favor the billand indeed i am one of its sponsorsand whose states would  benefit directly from the enactment. of the bill. as the senator ks. i have great respect for his views. however. i should like to state my reason for sponsoring the bill and supporting it. it was . that i expected my state or any area in my state would derive benefit from it. it was that my state. since it is a great financial and business state. had a tremendous stake in the general prosperity of the country. i felt. therefore. that i was endeavoring. by my support of the bill. to make. according to my lights and judgment. a contribution to the general prosperity of the whole country in developing the areas which need such assistance as the bill would provide. and. hence a very material contribution to my state. which pays something in the neighborhood of 20 percent of the federal taxes. the other point. which may interest the senator from arkansas. relates to the question of unemployment. there. too. i did  feel the bill was discrimi-. natory against the 90 percent unemployed as contrasted with the 10 percent. because the bill if enacted into law would be permanent legislation for areas in a critical condition. whereas we are consideringand i ardently support it and will do my utmost to have it passedemergency legislation to deal with unemployment during the recession. for the benefit of those whose unemployment payments have expired. that represents an emergency situation. therefore i believe we are dealing with a balanced program. while i respect very much the views of the senator from arkansas. i feel in all good conscience that i am serving the best interests of my state by supporting the pending bill.
. i deeply feel the need of expedition. because the matter is one of the very highest priority. and there is a need for some reasonable grant basis to supplement the unemployment compensation which can be forthcoming from the states. . also. i feel the matter of standards is important. because it represents a very important element of competition for business between the states. when the competition is fair. we are satisfied even if we in the large industrial states lose business. when the competition is expressed in terms of depreciation of the standards of those may receive unemployment compensation then i think we have the right to feel that competition would be fairer by having in effect a decent basis of unemployment compensation for those in the country who are contributing to our national production. for all those reasons. i shall support the amendment of the senator from massachusetts.
because the senator from maine. who is so gracious and also very considerate of the time of the senate. has spoken so briefly. i hope the import of the amendment. with reference to its real value in terms of the unemployment situation which faces us today. will  escape us. i believe the proposal is the traditional carrot and stick proposalan inducement to do something in order to earn forgiveness. many senators. even though they voted against the previous amendment. believe that the efficient and expeditious and emergency way to deal with the situation is by grants. i say if we can have that. at least let us have a loan situation which is of real use in terms of stabilization of the unemployment compensation situation. as a republican who has ardently supported the president of the united states in so many of his programs. let me say that when the president for 5 years has been asking the states to accept the very standards which are contained in the amendment offered by the senator from maine. we must assume that he really means it. king the president as i do. i feel he does mean it. and that it is close to his heart. therefore. if we have a situation which enables us to strike a blow for this kind of system. and the senator from maine gives us the opportunity to do so. we ought to take advantage of it. therefore. i should like to tell my colleague from maine that i personally feel indebted to him for bringing up this very reasonable and intelligent proposal. which the committee has had a chance to consider. and that the senate should take it very seriously. withstanding the fact that. in keeping with what is typical of the section of the country from which the senator from maine comes. he is  making a long speech about what is an extremely important subject to the whole american ecoy and to millions of individual americans who are suffering the effects of grave privation at the present time.
i have the ho to be a cosponsor of this amendment. i voted for standards in the unemployment compensation system. my reason for doing so was that experience demonstrated that the absence of standards was hurting us. therefore. when we dealt with unemployment. standards ought to be established when bitter experience has taught us that we would be best off had they been established. i should like to direct attention to the questions which were asked by the senator from delaware. because i believe they pinpoint the significance of the pending amendment. the state legislatures will be called upon to act in connection with the bill because that is what the other body has provided. in other words. the other body gave the states the option to "take it or leave it." in that event. the state constitutions and the legislative action of the state legislatures and all other procedures in that connection will become of major importance. on the other hand. if the states do  have the option of taking it or leaving it. then it will longer be necessary to depend upon the action of the state legislatures in accordance with their state constitutions. as my colleague the senator from kentucky has pointed out by means of the pending amendment. the federal government would be doing in the case of unemployment compensation for american citizens. including veterans. what the federal government does under other programs. namely. the federal government will provide. in the general welfare. for the needs of these groups of our citizens. and it will do so because they are citizens of the united states. that is the essence of the bill. the administration was correct with its first proposal. the administration was right the first time. because if there is any justification. under the general welfare clause. for the enactment of legislation of this type. it is because the existing emergency is a national one. and because the congress is acting on the pending bill in the interest of the nation.  in the interest of the unemployed alone. that is why the congress has a right to pass the bill. and to appropriate the necessary funds. as the bill is in the interest of the entire nation. then the congress has a right to decide what means can be used most effectively in this connection. and they are the means the administration first proposed. if we do  proceed in that way. the congress will have failed to take advantage of a real opportunity in the case of the action under this bill to end an unequal situation which prevails as between the several states. all of us k that the states tend to compete among themselves for business. and that the amount of the unemployment compensation tax and the program under this bill represent an important element of competition among the states. if a state were to decide  to use the funds under this bill. then every businessman whose business was located in that state would k that 4 years later his state unemployment compensation tax would  be increased. but the pending bill has ceased to be a national bill. andin wandering down some other track. has become in effect. a bill for federal aid to the states at their optionsomething the bill was  intended to be. and something that the fundamental philosophy of the bill is. indeed. opposed to. therefore. . if we are to be true to what we seek to accomplish in the national interest. adoption of the pending amendment is mandatory. as i have said. the administration was correct the first time. in the proposal it made then. and that is the way the law should read.
i shall take only a moment. i wanted to make a part of my remarks. and ask unanimous consent for that purpose to have printed in the record. a news story which appeared in the new york times of may 25. 1958. which. it seems to me. provides the key to the discussion and the reason why this amendment should be supported by every senator who feels sincerely this job ought to be done the way we intend it to be donethat is. completelyfor those whose unemployment eligibility benefits have expired. the news article is headed "joblessaid rise is likely to help in only six states." the article points out that those are the only states in which there is a readiness to take the money. and suggests the inequality as between the states i ask unanimous consent to have the news story to which i have referred made a part of my remarks and printed in the record.
. my answer to the question is in the affirmative. i should also like to state my reasons for taking the position that. withstanding the substitute. the language  contained in lines 10. 11. and 12. on page 28. continues to be part of this section. they read as follows: labor organization shall kingly permit any person to assume or hold office in violation of this subsection. subsection (c). which follows. imposes the criminal penalty upon "any person who violates this section." when we turn to page 33 of the bill. we find that the definition of the word "person." which appears in line 3. is as follows: "person" includes one or more individuals. labor organizations. partnershipsand so forth. in other words. a labor organization which insists on employing a person who has fallen under the prohibition of this proposed statute would. in my opinion. thereupon come under the provisions of subsection (c) of section 305. which is the section to which the senator. has referred.
it strikes me that this is a question which goes to the substantive matter of the bill. there should be a rulemaking power somewhere. i have read the rulemaking power contained in lines 10 to 21. on page 15. which would  cover the situation. i think it would be fair to the senate to make the statement that if this provision were adopted it would be my intention to offer an amendment to the rulemaking powers. so that the secretary of labor could make rules and regulations with respect to this particular subject.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to authorize the department of health. education. and welfare to make grants to the states up to $25 million annually. on a matching basis. to assist in providing facilities and services for children who need day care outside their homes. the day care assistance act of 1958 would make available such care to the children of working mothers and also to children who require such special attention because they are mentally or physically handicapped. the bill provides for the appropriation of $25 million annually for federal grants to states which have submitted plans which receive approval of the department for the establishment of daycare centers. and these grants will match the funds allocated by the state governments. i ask unanimous consent that the bill be held at the desk until tuesday. so as to enable other senators to join in sponsoring it.
i concur in what the senator has said. and i wish to make a similar statement. stressing the fact that we would be acting superficially if we relied upon what we did on friday by adopting house concurrent resolution 175. i point to the individual views of the senator from oregon and the senator from pennsylvania . let me say to the senator from connecticut that i have made a special request of the chairman of the committee on labor and public welfare. the senator from alabama . who happens to be in the chamber at this moment. to afford an opportunity for hearing on all these bills. including the senators resolution. my bill. the bill of the senator from oregon. and others.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a resolution adopted by the association of commerce. of elmira. n. y.. expressing opposition to enactment of the bill to amend the fair labor standards act of 1938. as amended. to provide coverage for employees of employers who are engaged in activities affecting interstate commerce. to eliminate certain exemptions. and for other purposes.
. i am today introducing proposed legislation to prevent and eliminate unjust discrimination in employment because of age in the three major areas where the federal government has some jurisdiction over employment practices. the first bill prevents such discrimination by firms engaged in interstate commerce. while the remaining two measures ban age bias in employment by employers fulfilling federal contracts or subcontracts and by those firms located in the district of columbia. the first proposal. called the national act against age discrimination in employment. declares that it shall be an unlawful employment practice for an employer to: i first. refuse to hire. discharge. or otherwise discriminate against any person in respect to his employment because of age when the reasonable demands of the job do  require an age distinction. and second. utilize the services of any employment agency. placement service. labor organization. or other agency which discriminates on account of age. it would also be unlawful for any labor union to maintain membership requirements or other procedures which would tend to rule out or limit employment opportunities. or adversely affect wages. hours. or working conditions because of an individuals age. the same prohibitions are contained in the other two bills. and in all the proposals there are enforcement provisions. as our ecoy rallies from the recession lows of 1958. we must bear in mind the most significant fact that the problem of dealing with unjust discrimination against workers over 45 in employment is relatively more severe at a time when our ecoy is expanding than it is during a period of contraction. an analysis of u.s. census bureau figures shows that during the peak unemployment month of april 1958. about 6 percent of the united states labor force in both the 25 to 44 and the 45 to 64 age group was out of work. although the average duration of unemployment for older workers was 2 weeks longer. 15.4 weeks compared to 13.4 weeks for the younger workers. both groups had a similar proportion unemployed more than 15 weeks40 percent over 44 and 37 percent between 25 and 44. however. during april 1957. when our ecoy was still in a period of expansion. workers between 45 and 64 had an average duration of unemployment extending 16.1 weeks. compared to 10.8 weeks for younger workers. 35 percent of our older workers were unemployed more than 15 weeks at that time. compared to only 23 percent between 25 and 44. it is apparent that seniority offers a degree of protection to older workers during a recession period and that they are rehired by their former employers at a relatively faster rate as conditions return to mal. however. there is a very real danger that as employers start to expand their labor force and create brandnew job opportunities. they will discriminate heavily against older workers who apply for these new assignments. particularly if some additional training may be required. as a result. many of our 1.2 million workers past 44 presently unemployed may  share fully in the benefits of an expanding u.s. ecoy. although about 70 percent of the companies in one recent survey said they did  have a fixed policy against hiring workers above a certain age. the remaining 30 percent admitted that they did set an age ceiling of 44. in addition. a nationwide study of hiring practices by the labor department showed that in 70 percent of the cities surveyed. more than half of the jobs registered with employment offices listed a maximum hiring age. at any period. age bias in employment is harmful to our national ecoic structure. it imposes an artificial limitation on the size of the manpower pool from which we can draw experienced. highly skilled employees. and it materially raises the number of persons requiring public assistance. while depriving our mature citizens of the dignity and status of selfsupport derived from constructive vocational activity. in a 1958 survey of 163 manufacturing plants. older workers once again were revealed to have proven records of high productivity. excellent attendance. mature response to teamwork pressures. harmonious employee relations. and low accident rates. if their experienced talents and skills are  fully utilized. then u.s. industry may be handicapping its own productive capacity and retarding the overall rate of our ecoic growth. admittedly. age discrimination in employment can be legislated out of existence. but the bills i am introducing today can provide a suitable basis for solution to be brought about by law. last year. when new york passed the mccahanpreller act to prohibit this type of discrimination. it was only the fourth state to do sothe other states administering such a law are massachusetts. rhode island. and pennsylvania. there remains a great opportunity and necessity for the federal government to exercise the same kind of leadership in this field that it did following enactment of the davisbacon act. which set up federal standards for wages. hours. and conditions of employment. my three proposals offer a starting point from which we can reach for the ultimate goal of barring age discrimination in employment wherever it exists and provide the government leadership so necessary if we are to make progress. under the terms of my proposed national act against age discrimination in employment dealing with firms engaged in interstate commerce. the administrator of the wage and hour division of the department of labor may issue cease and desist orders against violators and authorize the reinstatement or hiring of employees with or without back pay. further violations subject the employer to contempt of court proceedings. under the d.c. act against age discrimination in employment. similar enforcement machinery is at the disposal of the chairman of the minimum wage and industrial safety board in the district of columbia in dealing with businesses located there. the three bills also provide for judicial review along with conciliation. technical assistance. and other aids to both employees and employers. in the case of employers who practice age discrimination in the performance of work for the u.s. government or the district of columbia government. and persist even after a ice and hearings. then federal and d.c. contracts and subcontracts are subject to cancellation.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill entitled "the day care assistance act of 1959." to authorize a program of federal aid for the day care of children outside the home  to exceed $25 million annually with half that amount to be allotted to states on a matching dollarfordollar basis and the remainder to be administered to impacted areas in which specific federal activities like defense work or military bases have created a special need for such facilities. state plans for day care centers and services are to meet standards set by the department of health. education. and welfare and on approval federal funds would become available under the bill to assist in providing care for the children of working mothers and also for those children who require special attention because they or their parents are mentally or physically handicapped. hundreds of thousands of children throughout the united states will continue to be the chief losers so long as we fail to recognize that providing suitable day care for the children of working mothers is a national problem which urgently requires federal aid to activate state and local efforts in this field and to back up the outstanding voluntary programs  in effect. until a federal program such as the one contemplated in my bill is enacted. we are  looking after the needs of these children in households where ecoic necessity forces the mother to work outside the home. in cases where adequate adult supervision is  available. children are exposed to influences which lead to juvenile delinquency and the serious rise in youth crime. also. we are  meeting the needs of an expanding national ecoy which can fully utilize the highly trained skills and services possessed by thousands of american mothers with small children who may wish to join the work force. six and a half million to seven million children in the united states under the age of 12 have mothers who work outside the home. initially. the great majority of them   served would be the direct beneficiaries of professionally staffed. well equipped day care centers established by states and municipalities under a national program. it would also lend support to the activities pioneered by voluntary groups such as the day care council of new york currently carrying so much of the burden in supplying essential facilities. to categorically blame the waywardness of the children on the delinquency of the parents in homes where children do  receive sufficient care during the day. especially after school. is grossly unfair in many instances. onefifth of our young working mothers have little choice but to hold down fulltime jobs because they are either widowed. divorced. or separated and there is male breadwinner in the household. in addition. in families where the husbands yearly salary is under $1.500. at least one wife and mother out of every four is working to help supplement her familys meager income so that her children may receive the bare necessities. the percentage of cases where the mother leaves her children unattended so that she can earn money to purchase luxuries is very low. federal assistance for childrens day care is  a new concept. the lanham act passed in the early 1940s set up such a program but it was allowed to lapse after the close of world war ii. however. there are approximately 2 million more women in our labor force today than there were during the record war production year of 1944 when civilian manpower and womanpower was fully mobilized. today. one out of every three workers is a woman and the proportion of young working mothers is bound to increase as we step up our entire level of industrial and business activity to meet the cold war challenges. both ecoic and military. posed by the soviet union. the national interest will demand to an increasing degree that child day care centers and services become an integral community function especially in highly industrialized areas where working mothers are contributing to our total defense effort. federal impetus supplied through the operations of a sensibly scaled program. allotting half to its annual authorization of $12.5 million to the states on a matching fund basis and the rest to federally impacted areas. offers the best means for attaining that objective. under the terms of the legislation. the department of health. education. and welfare is charged with the responsibility of administering the program through its childrens bureau. the bill further provides that any of the $12.5 million in matching funds granted to states for day care and  spent for that purpose. shall be repaid. also should any state find that it does  require all of these funds allocated to it. the secretary of the department may reassign such surplus amounts to other states. a system of appeal and judicial review of ruling by the secretary is also provided.
. i intended to ask some questions of the distinguished senator from washington. who is chairman of the committee. rather than to seek the floor myself. but i must be off to a session of the committee on labor and public welfare. so i hope he will forgive me if i take a minute or two to ask him some very burning questions.
. what the senator from connecticut is proposing is that there should  be raiding. under the guise of this bill. on the big industrial states i do  see how anyone can argue with that desire. if the honesty of the bill is to be maintained. what i am proposing is the exclusion from financing. under the provisions of the bill. of machinery and equipment. there either would be made available aher $80 million or $100 million. or the amount provided by the bill would be reduced by that amount. if aher $80 million or $100 million should be made available we should take into consideration the objections made by the chairman that the cloth is  adequate to go around. those who wish to make reductions in the amount available will find it possible to reduce. legitimately. the amount provided. why do i say "legitimately". the classic patteln followed in the sections which have been hurt by chronic unemployment and unemployment because of techogical reasons has been financing through tax avenues and through acquisition of land in a community and the construction of buildings. one of the most able examples of the rehabilitation of a community under selfhelp programs is the fantastic job done in the uticarome area. which was one of the most depressed areas. it has been restored ecoically by the technique of making it possible to buy machinery on fairly liberal terms. under a selffinancing plan. machinery can become obsolescent or perishable. then it is mostly a drug on the market for a particular community. hence that kind of program should  be connected with this type of rehabilitation program. it costs a great deal of money. it takes much out of the bill. in the testimony of the department of commerce. which is to be found at the foot of page 400 of the record of testimony on this bill. it is stated: "machinery and equipment exceeds the investment in land and buildings by 4 to 1." a survey by the department of commerce of industrial establishments under new construction showed that machinery and equipment constitute 43 percent of the total cost of building those establishments. when that fact is coupled with the fact that the proposal is completely outside the tradition with respect to area rehabilitation. the very large amount provided in the bill which will go to machinery and equipment will cause legitimate suspicion on the part of great industrial states that an attempt will be made to raid them. using this very provision for machinery and equipment as bait. that factor would place a great handicap in the bill. unless the amendment were adopted. i say to the friends of the bill those against it. but its friendsif they are really serious about the purposes of the bill. as they have expressed them. and wish it passed to assist their states. they should accept.  oppose. this particular amendment.
it seems to me that there are two other questions we should consider. first. is it  a fact also that if we adopt the pending amendment. we are moving within the 3month frame of reference. secondly. is it  a fact that we are doing a very desirable thing in accommodating people who are  on the state unemployment rolls and under the house bill can get on the federal roll. my point is that it is one thing to proceed as we wish without regard to the other body. because we think what we are doing is the right thing to do. we can do that. of course. it is aher thing to proceed with a very reasonable effort to conform to the fundamental frame of reference set by the other body. and then. if they want toand we can assume that this will happenthey will let the bill lie on the table. i respectfully submit that we are arguing in the frame of reference set by the house of representatives. it is  something outside the context of what the house has offered. it seems to me that it would be unreasonable on that ground if we should findand i say we can assume thisan obdurate attitude in the other house.
 of the united states and most of the people of the country have generally concluded that ecoic strikers ought to be entitled to vote. and the sooner we make such provision the better in terms of labor peace and the freedom of the workingmen themselves.
i will. ecoic strikers are the strikers who engage in a strike which is for union organization. or which is for better terms and conditions or in connection with negotiation of a new union contract when the previous contract has expired. this does  refer to a striker who. because of unfair labor practices on the part of the employer. is entitled by law to reinstatement. that is what i mean by an ecoic striker.  of the united states. representing a sort of the middleoftheroad attitude in this matter. and i think perhaps the best we can say is that those who feel there should be particularly restrictive laws on unions are the only ones who might raise a question about it.
i should like to enlist the privilege with my colleague of separating the two questions. the first question is. shall they be permitted to vote. and. if so. how. the second question is. for how long. with respect to the first question. the national labor relations board has decided it. that was the situation under the wagner act. the ecoic strikers and the replacements both vote. the aggregate vote. depending upon the majority. will determine the representation. both classes vote.  one to the exclusion of the other. but both vote. the second question. as to how long this right shall persist is a difficult one. it troubles me. too. i think ultimately we may be receptive to some limitation of time. but the problem of time has  arisen practically. what has happened practically is that when an unreasonable time has elapsed. people float away. and as a practical matter. are  sufficiently interested to come forward and vote. quite apart from that. i agree with the senator that there should be some consideration of the time factor. but i point out that it is  such an urgent problem that it can be dealt with in subsequent legislation. when we have the benefit of expert advice. in the meantime. this provision seems adequate. because it allows both the ecoic striker and the one who has filled his job to vote. i respectfully submit. as a matter of judgment. based upon all aspects of the question. that we can go ahead and enact such a provision . even though we may reach the point. on the basis of technical advice. when we shall wish to establish a limit. as a protection. on the time within which an ecoic striker may be on strike and nevertheless vote.
 i do  believe so. any more than acts of congress were especially amended when horsecars were eliminated from the streets of our cities. they were eliminated from the street on which i was born in new york city. the horsecar companies were probably regulated by some very complicated charter regulations in the city of new york and in the state of new york. the fifth point contained in title vi has to do with prehearing elections. it deals with cutting down the workload of the national labor relations board. the socalled mckinsey committee efficiency experts. reported that the nlrb workload might be cut down by as much as onehalf by the adoption of the suggested procedure. the last provision would provide for a temporary general counsel of the national labor relations board. i do  believe there is any dispute about that. to sum up the argument for title vi. it seems to me that the whole objection to the enactment of title vi is based on the belief that labor may like it. is that an argument for voting against it. are we going to vote against a proposal because it may be favored by some persons. if we are to do that. we will be following a standard which could easily deatroy us. some day we may be passing legislation which labor does  like. but which management likes. shall we vote against a provision merely because labor may like it. particularly when every senator is given an opportunity to offer any amendment he wishes to offer. i do  intend to vote on any such basis. . there is a great newspaper in my home town. the new york times. which has objectively analyzed the pending bill. it comes to this conclusion: but the public interest. and labors too. clearly calls for the passage of s. 1555. its defeat would set labor reform back on its heels in the present session of congress. it would be a calamity for the senate to turn it down merely because it doesnt go far egh. after pointing out title vi of the bill as highly controversial. it adds: even at that. the opposition has been focused here. too.  so much on what is in the bill as what has been left out. i come back to the point that the opposition. when it is boiled down. is primarily based on the contention that labor may like the bill. what is wrong with that. labor has been living for 12 years with the tafthartley act. which it does  like. suppose congress could do something that it did like. would that be wrong or bad or any reason for defeating the proposed legislation. i do  believe so. therefore. i hope that the ervin amendment will be rejected
every senator ks that this is a very difficult vote. the senator from arkansas has conducted exhaustive hearings and has put us everlastingly in his debt with the truly consequential work he has done for the country. we have said it many times. it would be very easy to vote for his amendment. i would  be frank if i did  say that i should like very much to do so. however. i can do so as a lawyer. i believe my colleagues are entitled to k why i can vote for the amendment. one point which has  been discussed at all is that we are dealing with a criminal statute. section 102 of the amendment provides for a fine of $10.000 and imprisonment for  more than 2 years. or either. labor leaders are  popular in this country. and deservedly. . this is aher labor bill entirely. it is  the kennedyervin labor bill. it is the labor bill of the distinguished senator from arkansas . it is an attractive provision. as i said. i submitted a bill of rights myself. i believe that one is needed. however. i believe what is needed is one that is declaratory of law  one which makes law. what we have before us is a totally new labor bill. i would  be true to my oath as a senator if i voted for it. attractive as it is and much as i should like to vote for it. however. i can vote for it because my conscience will  permit me to do so.
s commission on migratory labor. where there are abuses. the most common ones practiced by crew leaders include failure to pay workers the full amount received from a farmer for their labor. charging a crew for transporting them to a job although the farmer himself is actually assuming that cost. loaning money to crew members at exorbitant rates of interest. and renting living quarters and similar facilities to the workers where. in reality. the expense is being assumed by the employer. under the terms of the crew leader registration act of 1959. every effort would be made to curb such exploitation by requiring that the approximately 10.000 crew leaders involved in migratory agricultural employment file information covering conduct and methods of operation on the job. their financial responsibility. transportation. wage arrangements. housing. and other working conditions concerning migrant workers in each crew. as required by the secretary of labor. the secretary may refuse to issue. may suspend. revoke. or refuse to renew a registration certificate on the ground that the crew leader has been convicted of a felony. been guilty of misrepresentation in application for a certificate. kingly given false information to his crew concerning conditions of employment. failed to comply with the reported working arrangement for the crew. or failed to comply with the act or any regulations issued under it. any willful violator of the act is guilty of a misdemea and is subject to a fine of $500. or imprisonment for a period of  more than 6 months. or both. migrant workers are the subject of deep concern of employers as well as all people in the united states. this administration measure is the result of very thorough research on the subject. i hope very much that the bill may have favorable and early action by the committee on labor and public welfare. as well as by the senate.
as coauthor of the amendment i should like to state to the senator from arizona my understanding of how it will work. a state will pass a law. if it does  have one . vesting authority in a state agency. either existing or newly created. to handle cases with respect to labormanagement relations. elections. and unfair labor practices. when the agency has been so empowered. if it is  already so empowered by existing lawand there is existing law in 11 states. with oregon having just come in. and in the commonwealth of puerto rico and in hawaiiit can specifically assume jurisdiction and handle this kind of cases. when it does. the pending amendment. if it is incorporated into law. becomes operative with respect to relations between that agency and the tafthartley law as amended by congress.
. i present. for appropriate reference. a resolution adopted by the retail merchants division of the chamber of commerce. of newark. n.y.. relating to the retail exemption in the fair labor standards act. i ask unanimous consent that the resolution may be printed in the record.
. on behalf of myself. and the senator from illis . i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to establish stricter standards under which private contractors may employ officers of the armed services immediately following their retirement or resignation for the purpose of engaging in sales and contract negotiations with the federal government. i ask unanimous consent that this bill may remain on the table until the close of business friday. june 26. so that other senators may have an opportunity to study its provisions and join in cosponsorship.
with all due respect to my colleagues. i do  believe that these prodding conversations get us anywhere. perhaps we can put the issue in focus by showing how this question arose. when my colleague came to the senate. he had a very sound idea. he said. "let us get the new york delegation together upon whatever issue we can. perhaps we can get them together at least on the defense order situation." i was thoroughly in accord. there was a meeting of the new york delegation. there was hing private. i issued a public release. and so did my colleague from new york. in the public release i issued i suggested that i was going to draft and introduce a bill along this line. . it is one thing to have competition. and it is aher thing to have implications. all we say is that california has been going up in defense orders while new york has been going down. i think that almost to the exact mathematical extent to which we have gone down. california has gone up in the matter of defense orders. we have many unemployed persons. bell air. in buffalo. for example. at one time had 20.000 employees.. subsequently. the mal employment was about 15.000.  they are down to about 1.500. buffalo is one of the highest unemployment areas  only in the state of new york but in the whole united states. so it was our duty to say to the people of new york. labor and management alike. "what is going on here. why have we fallen behind. sharpen up your pencils. look at the example of california. which has a united congressional delegation. and a great many unions and industries working together in trade associations. why can we  emulate their fine example."
i should like to state that we believeand i am sure my colleague will correct me if i am in errorin the application of four tests. three of which are  covered by the bill. and the fourth of which we wish to include. as it applies to this policynamely. small business. labor surplus. geographical dispersal. andand this is the one we  addindustrial dispersal. that is the only purpose. as i understand. of this statement of policy.
i inserted in the record of july 14 a report which the international confederation of free trade unions issued from brussels. showing the tremendous amount of penetration in the labor movement in various countries of latin america. and they ended up with these words.
finally. i point out two major questions upon which a factfinding committee could be extremely helpful. they are the two issues between management and labor. on the management side there is the issue of modification of ambiguous and restrictive language so as to enable management to make working improvements in the interest of greater efficiency and ecoy. also the addition of provisions to reinforce contract prohibitions against wildcat strikes. slowdowns. and picketing. on the other hand. on labors side. there is the demand that collective bargaining may be free and open. and that management may  use its prerogatives in order unfairly and unduly to put people out of work.
. as i stated when i offered my amendment in the nature of a substitute. i hope the senate will reach a conclusion of this issue. i think that will be very much in the interest of the senate and in the interest of the proposed legislation. it is  my understanding that the following will occur: i am about to propose that my amendment be modified so as to include specifically the penalty for perjury. as contained in section 1001 of title 18. united states code. if it appears that the amendment. as thus modified. will add to the law something which the law already contains. that certainly will do harm. i think that in that respect my amendment. as modified. differs from the amendment of the senator from south dakota. in that we agree that this provision would be a new one in regard to membership in such an organization. i also understand that the senator from illis will move that my amendment in the nature of a substitute be laid on the table. and the distinguished miity leader has stated that on that question he will request the yeas and nays. in that way the senate will have an opportunity to vote. in substance. on my substitute amendment. as perfected. which then will show clearly that the penalty for perjury is included in it. if the motion to lay on the table is rejected. the senate will have an opportunity to vote on the amendment. in the nature of a substitute for the amendment of the senator from south dakota . thus we shall come to some resolution of this issue. it seems to me that everything that needs to be said in that connection has already been said. i merely wish to point out that the law has been argued quite thoroughly. but i believe it important to e that the secretary of health. education. and labor favors taking this entire provision out of the bill. in order to make that situation crystal clear. and in view of the fact that there are two letters from the secretary of health. education. and welfare. i ask unanimous consent that those letters be printed at this point in the record. in connection with my remarks.
it may be that the soviet union could convince its people that such place as country club estates could include an ordinary workingman as a resident. however. the fact is that mr. hart and his neighbors are on about the same income level. mr. hart pays $86 a month in payments on his home. out of a salary of $123.40 a week. he and his wife and two children occupy five rooms in a home which. judging from the picture. is a very pleasant place indeed.
subsequently said: . let us take a deliberate look at the fundamental differences between these two points of view. as expressed in the two bills. the senate bill commits the entire mans land area to federal law. which would govern it in the mal course if jurisdiction were exercised by the national labor relations board. it provides that among those states which have administrative agencies comparable to the national labor relations board. some 10 in all. these administrative agencies may deal with problems in mans land according to federal law and may bring to them the flexibility and expedition. as well as the expert kledge. which are the special characteristics of the administrative process. many of us believe. as i do. that the adoption of this plan will stimulate the creation of such administrative bodies among states which do   have them. under the bill adopted by the other body. it is  only state agencies but local courts as well which may deal with situations in the mans land area. state laws on union recognition. procedures on union representation and collective bargaining differ so widely as to endanger our whole system of jurisdiction in labor relations cases. certainly this subject alone deserves close study and should be resolved deliberately rather than by a quick vote on the floor. hence i believe sending the bill to conference is essential.
. this can be a most auspicious development in american ecoic life. because it will give us a technique so sharply different from that of societies which order their people around. by which we can bring about the end of what promises to be. if it is allowed to continue. a serious national emergency. without invoking procedures which are bound to be considered by one side or by the other repressive and contrary to the best auspices for the collective bargaining process. so i hope this initiative may be fruitfully carried through by the impact of american public opinion. to bring about the settlement within the next weeksor perhaps even within the next few daysof the very vexing steel strike.
i am with the senator. as he ks. as regards this bill. but i am worried about the word "sole." although  for the same reason as that indicated by my colleague. i am worried about it for this reason: suppose a man went to a particular state in which the company had a sales office. and did so to hire a new salesman. if the word "sole" were used in the law. i would be afraid of it.
 certainly does  want the strike to continue. if it can be settled. but we recognize it is an evidence of the freedom and vitality and dignity of the individual which characterizes our society. however. i think every american would agree that we would rather have mr. khrushchev see working steel mills. settlement of the strike is within reach. if the public will work its will. an inestimable service has been rendered to the people by giving them the figures. the public is like a jury. they have the facts. the case is submitted to them. they can bring in the verdict. i think the verdict must be that heads must be kked together and the strike must be settled. because the materials for settlement are present. first. there is a certain amount of equity in the position of the workers. second. there is a certain amount available to satisfy the equity on the part of the employers. neither side can have all of what it wants. as the secretary of labor clearly indicated. the materials for settlement are present. and we in the congress. as well as the people. have to demand action by both parties on the highest level.
. i hope that the conferees will take very careful and serious e of this situation. and that just as secondary boycotts and picketing are a major objective of their discussions. so too will they concentrate on the "mans land" provisions as a very critical aspect of these negotiations and see that in our desire to correct what admittedly needs correction. we do  go overboard and work against our national interest by making repressive. more confusing and contradictory labor legislation.
i point out to the senator from vermont that the committee. even the majority. which reported the bill was very conscious of the columbia river question. indeed. if the senator will look at pages 10 and 11 of the report. he will find that the committee discussed the columbia river question. what it was really trying to do was to say that if canada retaliatesit should the fact isas i shall show in a little while from declarations of the canadians themselvesthe fact is. whether we think she should or should . whether we think she would be justified or would  be justified. the fact is that that protest of canada against this particular diversion is very strong. we are indebted to our colleague. the distinguished senior senator from wisconsin . who is so senior on the committee on foreign relations. for having laid to rest. once and for all. the illusion under which many people labor that canada does  mind this proposal at all. the senator from wisconsin certainly nailed that one. canada feels strongly about the proposal. as i can demonstrate. and as everyone else who has read about the matter can demonstrate. it may be said that canada should  retaliate in respect to the columbia river. but when people feel strongly. given an analogous situation. what can we expect them to do. we can determine for them how they should feel. or try to assuage their feelings by believing they should  do it. the fact is that they will be exercised about this. and properly so. what is sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander. they may well say. "how can you be mad at us if we do the same thing in the columbia river."
. the nearer is brought that emergency which a long cessation of production of so vital a commodity as steel must bring about in the private ecoy. as well as in defense production orders. already the strike is in its 48th day. a postwar record exceeded only by the 58day strike of 1952. the emergency will. it appears. begin in midseptember. when we are already told steel shortages may affect operations of freight car manufacturers and manufacturers of machinery and chemicals will be acute by early october reaching out to autos. aircraft. and shipbuilding. then tafthartley procedures for an 80day injunction are the most likely to be invoked. the result will be a dugin struggle between management and labor which will only make a settlement harder to attain. we believe that the leadership of the united steel workers will have real trouble in calling out the men at the end of the 80day period. should the dispute remain unsettled. the result of such an exacerbation of this industrial conflict can only be seriously damaging to the national interest. if management is waiting for the invoking of the national emergency provisions of the tafthartley law. it is making a serious mistake. the omis calm at presentas though the strike did  exist. and were  before usmakes me feel very strongly that people are sitting around waiting for the tafthartley law to be invoked. i believe. and the senator from vermont believesalthough he will speak for himself in a momentthat hing would be more unwise. in terms of the best interests of our country. labor is apparently already  insisting on its total demand for this. too. would be a serious mistake as we are convinced the public will  stand for a price increase in steel. indeed there is strong opinion that in the highest public interest what should result from the strike is a price decrease in steel. i insert parenthetically two thoughts. first. steel is rarely produced at maximum capacity. and steel is beginning to feel very seriously the influence of foreign competition. with about 1 /2 million tons of steel imported this year already. these are two situations which are of the gravest interest.  only to management. but to workers and to the united states. in terms of maximum production of steel. this is best for the steelworker. because he works more hours. one of the points made by secretary mitchell in his findings of fact is that whereas hourly wage rates for steel production workers are at about $3.10 an hour. on the average. which is pretty good. the fact is that the average steelworker earns only about $5.600 a year. and in 1958. 22 percent of the steelworkers earned less than $3.000 a year.
my colleague is exactly right. i am very grateful to him for joining me in this effort. the public does need to be prodded into taking an active part in the effort to obtain a settlement. from the figures given by secretary mitchell. one can almost draw a line down the middle and determine what can be done without a steel price increase. the situation is clearly one in which a settlement is indicated and demanded and should be made. the figures bear .this out.. steel company profits - as a percentage of net worth compared with the annual earnings of steel production workers and the pattern of major wage negotiation settlements in the first half of 1959 as disclosed by secretary mitchell all show that there is egh "give" possible for both management and workers to make a settlement entirely practicable without a steel price increase. we urge the public to demand a negotiated settlement most insistently at this time. i shall  stop. and i hope the senator from vermont will continue to cooperate with me. and that other senators will join us. in urging the public most insistently to demand a negotiated settlement at this time. i can help feeling that if we come to a tafthartley law injunction. it will be our common and collective fault. in  having made our demands felt keenly egh. both by management and by the leaders of labor.
. we have been wrestling in the senate with the ansland problem. in the field of jurisdiction as between the states and the federal government in respect of labor matters. which are also very kty problems. again. we have been more or less talking in the dark. based upon our own information. but without the benefit of any authoritative findings and analyses. these are two examples. i am sure there are a host of others. this fact only emphasizes why the leadership of the senator from maine is so important. i should like also at this time to pay a tribute to meyer kestnbaum. of chicago. who has served as chairman of the commission on intergovernmental relations. and is  a federal member of the joint federalstate action committee. he has led in this field in a most enterprising way. and shows every promise of continuing to cooperate in this field. i am sure he is very sympathetic to the objectives we are discussing. sometimes. we are inclined to permit things to go by in a sort of offhand way. in a quiet hour like this. when  much is going on. and we do  place egh emphasis on the real importance of the whole concept of the problem of this government of ours based upon federalstate relations. although i have many times supported the concept of federal responsibility in the most authoritative sense. i am etheless too much of a lawyer myself  to understand the importance of the maintenance of the strength of the federal system wisely and. considering the progress of the country. in ever keeping abreast of progress. this is a very fine contribution to that end.
i have just completed preparing my testimony. the important thing. . while i am on my feet i should like to say a few words about the bill itself. as i have said. when i was a member of the committee i had some hand in drafting the predecesor bill. which. incidentally. when it came to the senate. also covered the primary elections. this bill marks a departure from a situation which i hope very much we shall correct. lest anyone think this bill is going too far too fast. i point out that this is an extremely modest bill. doing hing. really. but bringing up to date. in realistic terms of today. the amounts which are spent in elections. and the ways in which the present law is made to function. withstanding the fact that it is archaic. and legalizing. in the sense of a federal election. those practices. and also requiring those elements of disclosure with which we are so familiar as to accept them as almost axioms of governmentas for example. in the securities and exchange commission act. the tafthartley act. the new labor law which we passed only last year. and a dozen other statutes. in short. there is  thoroughly built into our legislative philosophy the idea that people are  wards of the legislators or anyone else. they are adults. if we give them information. we have the right to assume that they will use it wisely. if they do . government of our character will try to drag them or lead them around by the hand. but if we keep them in the dark. which would be the result of  passing the bill. we can hardly expect them to act as mature and educated citizens. one final word. something has been said about the fact that people ought to k who supports whom. as though that were a point of virtue. i k it was  thought of in that way. but i think it should be ed that it has been said to be a virtue to be supported by labor unions and  by banks. or. on the other hand. that it was a vice. in that if one were supported by labor unions he must be a wildeyed radical. whereas if he were supported by bankers he would be a sound and very conservative fellow. that situation is attributable to the fact that we do  have an effective law. i think the people of the united states can evaluate. in their own way. what all these things mean. and give them their proper weight when it comes to voting. but if we leave them in the dark. we only encourage all the mysteries which occur in dark places. how many people have we all heard who have said: you do  really k how much money is being poured into this campaign by the great bankers. then we meet with the great bankers. as we all do. and they tell us darkly: you can imagine how much money is being poured into the campaign by the loaded treasuries of the labor leaders and the labor unions. neither of these ideas should be given any substance unless it is supported by the facts. it seems to me that by common consent those of us who suffer under either set of mysteries. which are spread abroad and expected to be taken seriously by intelligent people. should favor a measure of this kind. which will at last be realistic. the realistic aspect of it. i will say to my friend from missouri. is that it tries to gather up the totality of the contributions. instead of committing all the circumlocutions which have been piled upon those who run for office. and upon the very distinguished people who support them. because the law is simply out of date. the law should be brought up to date. it should be made inclusive. and it should be discriminatory. in order to accomplish all these things. we must pass the bill plus the amendment proposed by the senator from missouri and the senator from new york .
i thoroughly agree with my colleague. we ourselves often fall into the same error. even in this discussion. for example. i have spoken of utilities. labor unions. and banks. so have others of our colleagues. as a matter of law. they are  permitted to contribute. they do  contribute. the contributions are made by individualsdirectors or heavy investors in the companies. yet the discussion becomes loaded with generalities. because we do  have an adequate accurate reporting system. and everything is left to the general observation of the people. because the specific facts are  clearly delineated and set forth. as would be required by this bill. we are really doing something which is long overdue. and which seems so elementary that it is a little sad that we must spend so much time on the problem.
. i ask unanimous consent that the name of the senator from oregon may be added as a cosponsor of the bill amending the national labor relations act with respect to emergency labor disputes. introduced by me for myself and the senator from vermont on january 14. 1960.
i am a member of the committee on labor and public welfare. if it were felt that the detroit case had made a loophole in this whole scheme of legislative control which is against the public interest. i would certainly join with the senator from arizona . who is the senior republican on the committee. in seeking a review in the committee. by hearings. of an overhauling of section 610. i think that would be entirely germane and proper way it should be handled. if we found it needed to be done.
that is correct. if i may refine that specifically. if a state with a per capita income below the national average pays its teachers more than the average in the country. then we give it an advantage in the matching formula. for example. alabama. which is the first state on the list. and is certainly one of the poorer states. would. under our proposal. receive the maximum permissible federal matching. because right  alabama is making an effort for its teachers far above what it might be expected to make. considering its per capita income and what is the national average of salaries paid to teachers. i have doubt. however. that in actual dollars alabama is paying below the national average. rather than above it.
let me complete my observation the senator from ohio has by implication made a point which i think is very important. if i may rephrase it. when the federal government makes a grant. it issues a bond. that bond is. under the problems we have today. for a short term and at a high interest rate. we are paying 5 percent. when a municipality issues bonds. once it gets an issue sold. the bonds are guaranteed by the county and state governments. and they are exempt from federal income taxes. triple a municipals are paying 3 /2 percent. . that is a very important difference. and i think it verifies and seals the approach of guaranteeing the municipalities and states output of securities. rather than issue our own
it is movable in two ways. first. it is movable because it is based on per capita income of a particular state. the basis on which we seek to participate is the relationship of the states effort with regard to teachers as compared to per capita income. that is. the average per capita income of the state as compared with that of the country as a whole. and the average teachers salaries. if the state is making a great effort. withstanding the fact that in terms of dollars the state is paying its teachers less than the richer states are paying their teachers. it. nevertheless. will be rewarded for that effort by having a greater participation by the federal government under the program.
the finding would be by the president. he could employ any agency. including the civil rights commission. if it then existed. or the attorney generals office. to give him the basis for his finding. his finding would be that there was a denial of the opportunity to vote to a certain class within a certain described area. we like the idea of a specified area. whether it be an election district. a county. or even a congressional district. then the president may act. based upon his determination. he can get the basis for his determination from other agencies of government.
the senator from louisiana is telling me that the gover of his state was elected on such a platform. as i recall. the gover of aher state ran on a similar platform. namely. that the people of his state would  have to pay the federal income tax. but that would  stop the federal government from collecting the income tax. we saw that happen in aher day. when the people would  pay a whisky tax. a war was fought to keep us a nation.  an aggregate of states.
the senator is exactly correct. may i point out that this is one of the blights which people like myself hope will be undone as time marches on in our southern states. i point out the disparity in income for white families in southern states as contrasted with that of white families in other parts of the nation. we have assembled the figures for the year 1958. we have calculated them from current population records and consumer income statistics issued january 15. 1960. by the bureau of the census. this is what these figures show: the percentage of families with income between $4.000 and $10.000. white. in the south. 17 percent. for the white income outside of the south. 55 percent. the percentage of families with income below $2.500. white. in the south. 61 percent61 percent of the white families in the south have incomes below $2.500. the percentage of white families outside of the south having that income is 20 percent. or onethird. the median. or average. income of the white families in the south is about $2.000. it is $2.016. to be exact. per year. the average. or median. income of the white family outside of the south is about twice as much. $4.200 a year. i emphasize those figures because i think they have a bearing in two respects: one. as to the people who can afford to litigate. they can afford it infinitely less in that area of the country than anywhere else. and. second. i submitand this is a big sociological questioe of the factors which has held down income in this very important and very lovely part of our country has been the pursuance of what they thought to be the proper kind of social order for them. i am very hopeful. if their horizons begin to expand in tune with the times and in tune with the desirabilities as we have been discussing this matter. that. without bayonets marching into the southbecause i do  think any of us are remotely thinking of such a thingtheir income will go up and get to the point where there will be more of an egalitarian situation than what they have been used to.
 following 1960. we had better stake out our ground  in a very substantial. statesmanlike way. for this reason: we can  close up the world if we expect to keep it free. if we expect to have the united states participate in big protectionist programs. we shall thwart the very effort which we are making by the spending of billions of dollars militarily and ecoically for peace. if we act in a way which will have the effect of damaging the national security of the united states. that does  mean letting down all the gates. repealing all the tariffs. and saying "let us have free trade. and take our chances." it does  mean anything like that at all. it means that while we have reasonable hope concerning the kind of protection we will give american industry. while we give it the opportunity to secure major increases in world trade. including increases in exports. we must also do everything we humanly can to raise the labor standards and standards of consumption in other countries. especially in the underdeveloped areas of the free world. at the same time. we must also do everything possible to assure ourselves of a stable. continuous supply of basic commodities. without which our industrial machine would grind to a halt. it should be realized that right  the overwhelming majority of commodities which we are receiving come from the underdeveloped countries of the free world. finally. let us remember that we have an extremely active competitor. we are  alone in dealing with other countries of the world. we are dealing with the communist bloc. which is standing poised to take advantage of every mistake we make in foreign ecoic policy. therefore. at one and the same time that we try to phase out the problems of protective tariffs. quotas. and agricultural surpluses which lean heavily upon foreign trade in the united states. we must have a movement underway which is materially expanding americas standard of living to other countries. and which is providing for their greater development. the ida bill. although it is inadequate. provides an incentive for a movement forward of a very material kind. of a kind which we have needed for a long time. in respect to the development of the less developed areas. for the first time. we can use soft currencies to great advantage. therefore. i think we thwart our own objective when we impair the mobility with which we can use the soft currencies. and also thwart our objectives when we include provisions which discolor the character of the statesmanlike act which we are performing by joining ida. it is much harder to vote "nay" on the amendment than "yea". it is much harder to explain. but i repeat what i have said many times: that is why we were sent here. we were  sent here to decide only the easy questions. we were  sent here to vote only on the easy questions. i have the greatest respect for senators who take a point of view opposite to my own. however. in view of the urgent action which can be performed by this kind of fund. and the fact that it will stabilize one of the big issues which has been made very clamorous upon us. and has resulted in very unfavorable relations with us among the less developed countries. we should  put a string on a real statesmanlike act so as to discolor and. in a sense. disqualify what we are trying to accomplish. the second very basic proposition is that we will  help ourselves in this emous new issue of foreign ecoic policy. especially as it relates to imports into the united states. unless at one and the same time we adopt the protective mechanisms which may be needed to carry our ecoy through a period of adjustment. and when we are stretching ourselves to raise the labor standards. the standards of living. and the levels of investment in the less developed areas of the free world. for those reasons. i believe we must make.  the easy decision or the apparent decision. but the harder decision. and i believe we should leave unimpaired the bill as it has been reported by the committee.
of course. that situation puts me in the position of believing that this is the only chance we shall have to vote to make the income meet the outgo. i think most senators wish to do the things which need to be done. whether in regard to research or in regard to paying the government employees properly or in regard to foreign aid. of course. i very much favor foreign aid. i also wish to have the government pay its bills. i respectfully submit that if we do  receive those opportunities from the committees. then we have to do what the miity leader is doing. namely. utilize the rules of the senate to attach such proposals to any bills that are available.
is it  true that on the republican side there are a number of senatorsperhaps a majority on that sidewho are just as anxious as are any senators on the democratic side to have a minimum wage bill passed here and enacted into law. therefore. i hope it will be carefully ed generally. both here and throughout the country. that it is  the majority of the senators on the republican side that have a whole sheaf of amendments that have the effect which has been mentioned. it is the senate which has that idea. i. too. am a senator. i am in favor of the bill. i have joined in the majority report. and i am just as anxious as is the senator from massachusetts to vote for the bill tonight or tomorrow or at the earliest possible opportunity. and i will stay here in the hope of being able to do so. i hope that is clearly understood both here in the senate and throughout the country.
why would it  be just as eworthy to say that the claimed fear of civil rights legislation would be an excellent excuse for those who oppose the minimum wage bill. for example. to drag it out. claiming they have to keep it going because civil rights legislation may come in. for myself. i would be fully prepared to commit myself. based upon what we have just been discussing. namely. a proper way in which to proceed. to offer amendment on the minimum wage bill which relates to civil rights. i have doubt other members feel the same way. so we will get on with the business before us. and there will be a redemption of good faith on both sides of the aisle.
. it strikes me that this is one of the most eloquent arguments for this bill. fifth. it will be recalled that an increase to the $1 minimum wage. effective march 1. 1956. represented a rise of onethird in the then minimum wage. while the present increase of 25 cents represents only a 25percent increase. we have a summary of experience with that previous increase in 1956. based upon the experience reported by the department of labor in its report for the year 1959. submitted under section 4(d) of the fair labor standards act. we find the following conclusion: thus. the effects of the minimum wage on unemployment were  sufficiently large to be discernible in overall estimates of unemployment. also. according to other studies by the department of labor. the increase in 1956 did  result in an increase in hourly earnings of high paid workers in proportion to the increase in earnings of workers previously paid less than $1 an hour. sixth. the effect of the increased minimum wage will  materially change the ability of american manufacturers to compete with foreign producers in imports or exports. the secretary of labor testified exactly to that effect before the subcommittee on labor standards of the house committee on education and labor on april 21. 1960. he there stated: undoubtedly the question of foreign competition. foreign imports. is a greater problem today than it ever has been and it certainly is of concern to american business. but i was addressing myself to what i thought was your questionwould a moderate increase affect this importation problem. i do  think so. our costs of manufacture. . are much higher and i am glad they are from the point of view of the standard of living of our people. the seventh point. that is. the competitive factor. is selfexplanatory in view of the very low wage levels prevailing in retail and service industries in many states and the way in which state minimum wage laws. where there are such laws. have tended to accept and freeze rather than materially improve these minimums. these low rates under state laws are shown in the tables under appendix b of the senate hearings on this bill at pages 57 through 62. it is especially to be ed in the list of 22 states with minimum wage standard whatever in. for example. retail trade. an area of such major intrastate employment. it represents 7 million out of approximately 20 million employees. who are  covered by the federal minimum wage law. the coverage of these employees within states with such laws is relatively slim. for example. it is estimated that  more than 4 million such workers have been covered by such minimum wage laws. and since 1945  more than onefifth of the 20 million that i have mentioned. my own state of new york has just adopted a statewide $1 minimum wage law effective october 1. 1960. again proving itself one of the most advanced states in the nation in dealing with working people. i should like to conclude upon this e in respect of my presentation on the minimum wage bill. while every effort is being made to make us believe that there may be a slowdown on the minimum wage debate because some people are afraid that someone may propose civil rights legislationi have already stated my position in this respect with regard to the minimum wage law. and therefore see reason for anyone entertaining any fear on that score. but let us be realistic about deeply felt ecoic views of their own held by opponents of this bill or the ecoic interests of lowwage states. in short. let us  have ourselves blinded by what may be a very interesting pyrotechnical discussion on the floor as to the real verities of the ecoics of the minimum wage. there are some lowwage states which may  be anxious to see this advantage in attracting business diluted. i use the word "advantage" advisedly. it is an advantage which i believe. and which i think the majority of congress believes. is  in the national interest and the whole national prosperity. i say that because i think it is a very necessary corollary to what we are talking about. while i express full respect for those who may oppose the bill for one reason or aher. i think we ought to consider very carefully the ecoic interest which is also a policy interest in the bill.
. i agree with the statement of the senator from arizona. i thoroughly accept. because he is a man of great ho. and we all k that. everything which he says about this matter. i think it would be very helpful if the opponents of the measure did exactly what the senator from arizona is doing. namely. to state precisely the basis of their own position. especially in terms of the question of wage rates within their own states. i think this would have a very helpful effect upon getting some equalization in terms of the nation even without regard to the bill. i k that the senator from arizona is a very enlightened employer. i k that quite apart from our work in the senate. i compliment him on it. we disagree in terms of the bill. on a fundamental question of policy. i believe that in measures affecting commerce. which is the definition used in the labor relations actall three of the actsjurisdiction in interstate commerce. under the constitution. is affected. and faced with the problems which the minimum wage is designed to meet. we do have a right to place a basic floor under the wage structure. in my opinion. to which even new business should be compelled to repair. because it is the basic subsistence minimum. i could  agree more heartily with the senator from arizona that it would be a perfectly valid argument. in terms of the bill and in terms of my own position on the bill. to argue the ecoics which have been argued so eloquently by him in terms of whether the bill will or will  create unemployment. in terms of how it will affect the national price level. i address myself in terms of how it will affect the opportunity or capability of american producers to compete with foreign producers. and also in terms of what it will do to persons who engage in new business. so while we may differ. i may say to the senator from arizona. on the question we have to decide. i certainly wish to express all respect for what i myself k. quite apart from our work in the senate. to be bona fide in the senators position. when i said what i did. i expressed the hope that senators from states having low wage scales states like arizonamake their stand and explain why is it  right to do something on a national level to correct the imbalance upon states like my own. the new england states. and other states throughout the nation. which are seeing a good deal of business which they feel they should be sharing going to other areas because of low wage levels.
i understand. but i am referring to the argument that we are trying to do something unconstitutional. of course. we are . and even if we were to try to do so. we could  succeed in doing anything unconstitutional. but that does  necessarily mean that every employee described in the committee report. every one whom we think will be affected by the bill. actually will be affected by it. i have little doubt that in connection with this matter. as in connection with the original minimum wage law. there will be litigation in regard to the extension of coverage. indeed. i think that is a good thing. if we were to try here on the floor to specify in detail in regard to every category. on the theory that that was what the courts wanted or what we wanted. we would become involved in great difficulties. in short. i believe this measure is constitutional. and. assuming that it is passed and is enacted into law. i think the courts will. without question. test the specific areas of applicability of the billand quite properly soto individual employers and employees. regardless of what may be set forth in our report.
. i point out that a number of us tried to facilitate that.  only by urging it. but also by removing from the consideration of the minimum wage bill any of the discussion with respect to the very hotly debated subject of civil rights. upon which so many of us feel very keenly. i say that because i think the debate is  partisan. i think the senators who are engaged in it are entitled to great credit. the country needs to be aroused to the fact that. without regard to party. there is here a very solid coalition in favor of the passage of a minimum wage bill. which is being frustrated and delayed by some who feel that they might profit by delay. i wish immediately to point out that my dear friend and colleague. the junior senator from arizona . who is quite sincerely opposed to the bill. is here. and that he was very wise and statesmanlike in making it clear. the other day. as soon as he had an opportunity to do so. that so far as he is concerned. he is  pretending to lead the republicans. or anything of the sort. the country should have very clearly in mind. therefore. the fact that there may be quite sincere opposition and deeply held opposition. and that the senator from arizona is ready to meet the issues as they come up. and that there is also support for this particular measure on both sides of the aisle.
. i would be opposed to all these amendments. including the amendment of the senator from kentucky. so i did  wish to intrude on the time of the senator from kentucky. whose friendship i value so highly. and whom i would rather be for than against. however. i merely wish to say i serve on the subcommittee headed by the senator from new jersey. and i do  believe the argument should be pitched on the humanitarian desirability of what is involved. though i k it is true. i do  think it would be germane to this particular issue. i think the opinion of the attorney general is very strong. if i may refer to it. the senate committee on education and labor pointed out that. under the wagnerpeyser act. the secretary of labor is authorized to promulgate rules. regulations. and standards of efficiency necessary to carry out the provisions of that act. to wit. the wagnerpeyser act. that is a very strong statement as to the implementation of that act. withstanding the quotation comes out of the report of the committee on education and labor on amendment of the wagnerpeyser act in the 79th congress.
i would  say the minimum wage is  a problem. but i think the main problem is  so much as to wages as it is as to hours. i hope that before we finish with the consideration of the bill we will carefully consider that phase of the subject. i am an advocate of the bill. and signed the report. but one of the things which concerns me is the overtime problem as to hotel and restaurant employees. as they are being newly covered. i state that to the senator quite frankly. because. although i do  intend to support his amendment in the nature of a substitute. i have the highest regard for the senators study. work. diligence. and sincerity in respect to his committee obligations. i k that his substitute is advanced with the highest motives and in a spirit of dedication toward trying to do the best possible. that is why i demonstrate my confidence by communicating to the senator one of the aspects of the bill about which i am concerned. and there are a few parts of the bill which worry me. the question of overtime for hotel and restaurant employees may prove to be troublesome. i think the senator. in his discussion. has somewhat led up to the fact that there is a problem in that field. as there is. i simply wanted to make my contribution to the discussion.
i wish to comment on the statement about unionization which the senator from florida made. if we are going to make that argument. there is all the more reason for including under the coverage other employees who today do  come under the interstatecommerce definition. because they are the least organized. the unions are some of the most ardent exponents of the minimum wage idea. because it provides a floor at a certain point for bargaining and for competition for jobs. as to the question of going far beyond this proposal and attempting to include provisions which may be hoped for by some. let me say we always hear that argument from those who are opposed to a bill. i am sure that i. myself. have made it when i have been opposed. but i feel that the action proposed to be taken . as typified by the activities of the distinguished senator from vermont and by those of the senator from florida. indicates clearly. in my opinion. that we shall  run wild in any direction so long as we remain the body of responsibility that i believe we are.
. i shall  detain the senate in order to state my reasons for supporting the bill. for which i will vote. but i should like to have the attention of the chairman of the committee on labor and public welfare because i should like to make a request that should be made a part of the record before we vote. many of us. including myself. voted for the exemption of hotel workers. motel workers. and restaurant employees. whatever may be the justification for such action. i think it was fully justified under the circumstances. i am nevertheless concerned about the full effect of this bill when it is signed into law. as i hope it will be. and when it goes into operation. therefore i should like to address a request to the chairman of my committee. and if he can comply with it. i think it will be helpful. i should like to request that the committeeand if the committee will  do so i shall. but i hope the committee willask the department of labor to give us at the earliest possible date next year a complete report as to the effect of such new minimum wage act as is enacted upon hotel. motel. and restaurant employees. we wish to be fair in respect to these matters. i believe that to have such information before us will be helpful in two ways: first. to correct inequities. if any are found to exist on the facts. second. as a stimulus perhaps in helping to see that there is e. i make that suggestion to my chairman.
. what i wish to emphasize todayand my only reason for speaking today. when i will allow this bill to go to committeeis to emphasize that before we are through it shall have its turn. which is the important point we ought to bear in mind. i wish to make this one other point. in fact. by recessing the senate since last thursday. the mere reference of this bill to a committee. so that a committee might have a look at it and hold hearings on it. has been deferred. i think that fact bears upon the whole proposition as to whether we shall regard civil rights legislation. even of this minimal character. as a nuisance. something that gets into our hair. or whether it represents an important issue to the american people domestically. and to the foreign policy of the united states. and we shall regard it at least as being on a parity with the other measures which are listed as "must" bills in this session. i close by saying we will return to this. we will return to it at a time which shall reflect the kind of responsibility which has induced senators like myself  to press for it or  to press for amendments to the minimum wage bill. so as  to be occupying time which might interfere with a matter of this importance.
. i send to the desk sundry amendments to the bill. and ask that they lie on the desk and be printed. under the rule. i submit the amendments on behalf of myself and my colleague from new york . the amendments relate to the social security and unemployment compensation aspects of the bill.
i think that is one of the virtues of my proposal. the individual can determine for himself in his own circumstances which option he requires for his own protection. i believe a person with a very small income would want the preventive care. i would say a person with a modest income would desire the catastrophic illness plan. i think that is one of the advantages given a person. a choice based upon his own circumstances.
. i have two other amendments at the desk. i shall  put them to a vote. i simply wish to express a request to the committee in connection with them. i shall detain the senate for only a minute on each amendment. i should like to have the attention of the manager on the part of the committee. the senator from oklahoma . these amendments concern two urgent problems. i am under illusions about having them adopted. because the committee is  ready to adopt them. however. i ask the committee to examine into them in the interval between  and next year. the amendment i have just called up is one of great interest to the state of new york. it seeks to redefine the word "person" in the unemployment compensation act. so as to permit profit organizationsand there is an emous number of them in the state of new york. employing 350.000 peopleto come under the unemployment compensation act without paying the tax. but on a reimbursable basis. to achieve this purpose will require both state and federal action. therefore. the state will have the option of deciding whether to permit such action in the case of a particular profit organization or . we feel strongly about this proposal in new york. i hope the senator from oklahoma will agreeand i shall withdraw the amendment in a momentto have the committee examine into the question carefully. to see if perhaps next year the proposal might  receive favorable consideration.
. i submit an amendment. intended to be proposed by me. to house bill 12759. the socalled mexican labor bill. and ask that the amendment be printed. under the rule. together with an explanation of the amendment.
i wish to join the senator in what he has said. looking at the problem from the point of view of organized labor. to which i have always been very favorable in this body and in the other body. i would say this is a time when selfdiscipline and statesmanship are needed equally by labor and management. i endorse what the senator says. although he and i might conceivably vote in a different manner on a labor reform bill. i certainly join the senator in saying that this is the kind of thing which invites drastic legislation. if it can possibly be avoided. this should be an additional reason for avoiding it. as well as the overriding national interest. i thank my friend.
i am on the committee on labor and public welfare. i am very interested in the subject of labor. i should like to support the senator from vermont. . i have an amendment which is designed to quiet a lot of litigation. in situations in which the secretary of labor has been engaged in litigation because there are criteria in the act which is being extended. the effort of my amendment would be to establish necessary criteria. i understand this is a difficult and trying problem. upon which people would wish to be heard on both sides. as to the complications in the amendment. although i think its adoption is justified. i agree with the senator from vermont. i think. with the kind of attention which is fixed upon the proposal . if the bill should be allowed to pass without amendment we can get action. would the senator accept instructions to conferees. we do  need that. the senator from arizona can tell us. we all love him dearly. would the conferees bring us back a 6month extension. or hing at all. i should like to agree with the senator from vermont.
it is acceptable to me on the basis outlined by the senator from vermont. with the assurance that seasonably. in the next session. we shall really lave a goround on these very grave difficulties which have arisen with respect to the act. that the secretary of labor shall have a full opportunity to be heard. and so shall we. on those understandings. king as we do that the senator from arizona would never reply this way if it were  so. i would say we ought to go along at this point.
i. too. wish to make some remarks on this subject this morning. when collective bargaining breaks down. as the senator from delaware has so properly ed. the public interest steps in. in the steel strike the president appointed a group to make findings of fact. and the prestige of the president was therefore thrown into the fray to settle the strike. public opinion is the one thing which speaks out. but public opinion has to be expressed in order to make itself heard. therefore. as the senator from delaware has suggested. additional law is needed. we should  go home until we enact it. secondly. i hope the president of the united states will  give his attention to the very grave emergency. in order to set into motion some factfinding machinery that will bring about a settlement of the strike. we k it is a time for statesmanship by labor and management. but we also k it is public opinion which is necessary in order to bring the matter to a point where it can be settled. i have suggested one way. and the senator from delaware has suggested aher.
. the first of the three bills would prevent businesses engaged in interstate commerce from practicing such discrimination. and the other two bills would outlaw it in firms holding federal contracts or subcontracts. and in companies located in the district of columbia. federal leadership in the drive to prevent and eliminate unjust. unreasonable discrimination against older workers on account of their age is imperative. if our resources of skilled manpower are to prove adequate to the demands of an expanding ecoy. and if many of the mature citizens  on the public assistance rolls are to regain their dignity and selfsufficiency as productive. useful working members of society. the many artificial age limitations  operating can severely limit job opportunities. hinder advancement. and lead to the premature retirement of experienced. valuable workers only 45 years old. and sometimes younger. if the age limit of 45. which is all too frequent in private industry. were in force in the u.s. senate. where the average age is 57. 91 members of this chamber could be declared as overage. the national act against age discrimination in employment would declare it to be unlawful for firms in interstate commerce to refuse to hire. to discharge. or to otherwise show bias against any person in respect to employment because of his age when such distinction is warranted by the reasonable demands of the job. neither could such employers utilize the services of any employment agency. placement service. labor organization. or other agency which engages in age discrimination. labor unions could  maintain membership requirements or other procedures which tend to restrict or rule out job opportunities. or adversely affect wages. hours. or working conditions because of a workers age. similar prohibitions would apply under the provisions of the other two bills. and in the case of violations by companies holding federal contracts or subcontracts these contracts would be subject to cancellation. job discrimination because of age has already been recognized as a major ecoic problem requiring governmental action in nine states including new york. pennsylvania. massachusetts. connecticut. rhode island. delaware. oregon. wisconsin. and alaska. they have laws on the books banning it in private industry. and. in most cases. in unions and employment agencies as well. the bills i am proposing would enable the federal government to play a leading role in meeting this problem just as it did in a similar situation some two decades ago through the establishment of federal minimum wage and hour standards. where a state law already exists to prevent age bias in employment. the federal government could give the state agency administering it the authority to prohibit such discriminatory practices by local firms engaging in interstate commerce. once a worker 45 years old or over loses his job for whatever reason. this source of income will probably be lost to his family for a longer time than it would were he a few years younger. the u.s. labor department reports that older workers often meet resistance when seeking a new job. and consequently are unemployed for longer periods. in october 1960. for example. about 38 percent of the unemployed in the 45 to 64 age group had been out of work for 15 weeks or longer. whereas the proportion of jobless in all age groups seeking employment for nearly 4 months or more was about 31 percent. a study of comparative job performance by age which was undertaken by the labor department in 1960 among officeworkers. a group where age bias is especially prevalent. shows that both the employer and the older employee can be the loser when this kind of discrimination is practiced. in the era of productivity. frequently mentioned by employers as the reason they set an upper age limit for new officeworkers. the labor department found that the differences. overall. between the younger and older groups were insignificant. however. while output per manhour varied widely among workers of all ages. large proportions of older workers exceeded the average job performance of younger groups. finally. older workers had a steadier rate of output. with much less weekly variation. than their younger colleagues.  only is job discrimination for this reason unwarranted in such employment. but the absence of more mature. experienced employees may mean lower productivity standards in some firms without them. previous private and government sponsored studies had shown that older workers have attendance and safety records equal or superior to those in younger age groups. that this type of job prejudice is  insurmountable. and that it can be dealt with very effectively by government authorities is demonstrated by what has happened following the passage of state laws. in new york. which already had a good record when it came to hiring older workers. about 25 percent of the hiring orders placed with the state employment service contained an age restriction prior to the passage of the mcgahanpreller act in 1958. forbidding age discrimination in employment. subsequently the figure dropped to under onehalf of 1 percent. today. the majority of americans over 45 are members of the labor force and they account for some 37 percent of all workers. labor experts expect that ratio to remain fairly steady through 1975 when an estimated 33 million workers will be in the older age group. if congress will act to provide the federal government with the appropriate responsibility and authority. we can look forward to a time in the near future when discriminatory employment practices based on age will become obsolescent. while the skills of the older worker will be much in demand. under the terms of the proposed national act against age discrimination in employment dealing with firms engaged in interstate commerce. the administrator of the wage and hour division of the department of labor could issue cease and desist orders against violators and authorize the reinstatement or hiring of employees with or without back pay. further violations would subject the employer to contempt of court proceedings. under the district of columbia act against age discrimination in employment. similar enforcement machinery would be at the disposal of the chairman of the minimum wage and industrial safety board in the district of columbia in dealing with businesses located there. the three bills also provide for judicial review along with conciliation. technical assistance and other aids to both employees and employers.
. i have objection to either the consideration of the inations en bloc or their confirmation. but i wish to say a word about the ination of mrs. esther peterson. who is one of the inees. to be director of the womens bureau of the department of labor. when she came before the committee on labor and public welfare. of which i am a member. i was unfortunately engaged before aher committee. the committee on banking and currency. of which i am a member. a  unusual situation in which senators sometimes find themselves. therefore i did  have the opportunity to pay to mrs. peterson the tribute which she deserves. i have dealt with her for many years in respect to labor matters. she has been on capitol hill for a long time. i have always found her to be  only an outstanding humanitarian. but perhaps. what is more important. a person of objective judgment in terms of balancing the urgent needs of the country with the urgent needs she felt she was serving in the matters she was urging on the part of labor. i think mrs. peterson was an excellent choice to head this critically important bureau. i hope that her concept of statesmanship will have an even greater opportunity for displaying its virtues and talents in the days ahead. and i wish to congratulate mrs. peterson en the floor of the senate on being named to this very high office.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record two resolutions adopted by the uniteditalian american labor council. inc.. of new york. n.y.. relating to immigration and italian democracy and free trade unionism.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks. an article by brendan m. jones published in the new york times of february 12. 1961. and an excellent editorial entitled "kennedy on protectionism." mr. jones points out some of the problems inherent in the increasing pressures for protection against imports which both the members of congress and the administration are experiencing. and which are  even reaching over into the areas of business and of labor relations through threatened boycotts against foreign goods.
. i add. with respect to the bill. that my colleague will introduce a bill shortly. i assume. generally upon the same subject. as to which i have the ho to join. he will. of course. explain the bill himself. i feel that all of us are simply trying to right a balance which has  been righted.  by any artificial activity but solely as a result of a national policy which will take some cognizance of labor surplus areas. of which we in new york have more than our share. and. second. which will give a chance to industries in new york. which are highly competent and extremely mechanized. to have some share of these defense contracts more commensurate with their power and size with reference to the total industrial machine of the country. we believe. whether by convenience or simple inertia. the balance has shifted in a way which is unwise in terms of the nation. we do  blame anybody. i have complimented my friend the senator from california [mr. kuchelj before for the fact that his state has perhaps been on the ball and able to get twice the business we in new york have.
. a great many programs are  going on. and the survey contains information which is indispensable for every one of us. because of the interest in the peace corps. the document is  printed and is available through my office. through the senate document room. or through the committee on labor and public welfare. of which i am a member.
 the per capita income of the state. but the per capita income of the particular communities encompassed. there is $100 million. leaving out community facilities. subject to the test of state percentages of unemployment. and covering three periods of time which are set forth in the bill. then there is the other test of unusually low income when compared with the average national income in particular communities.
. much has been said about new york. i call attention to the fact that this situation is most unusual. this is probably the first time within the memory of senators who have been here much longer than i have that new york may be on the receiving end. for new york state. this is really a national emergency. for new york has an emous roll of unemployed. hence new york is eligible for this dubious distinction. my state today has a higher rate of unemployment7.3 percentthan the national average. the last reported number of unemployed persons was 557.000. over 400.000 of whom are eligible for unemployment compensation and an estimated 42.000 of whom have exhausted all benefits. when we talk about the reserves in terms of new york. let us remember that new york taxes its employers heavily. when we talk about reserves. we must remember what the reserves are against. new york has a wage bill of over $24 billion a year and well over $14 billion a year in taxable wages. so when one says "$1 billion" it sounds like a great deal of money. but  when it is compared with the largest wage bill. by far. of any state in the nation. it seems to me that senators from states which have reclamation projects. which have large rolls of dependent children. which have large rolls of other recipients of federal aid. while we in new york in our federal tax payments pay out $1. $2. or $3 for every dollar we receive back. ought to be delighted for. and receptive to. the one day when new york is here asking for a little help. instead of once again being on the paying end. i am frankly surprised. if this is to be a precedent. my colleague and i ought to be defending it. because we will make a great deal of money for our states taxpayers in the process. but we k very well it will  be a precedent. and the very votes which could mow us down tonight may be the very votes which will ask us to pay. pay. and pay tomorrow. we k that very well. that is why we oppose the byrd amendments. our reserves have  been going up. they have been going down. because new york has been suffering from a very serious unemployment situation. our reserves have been reduced from $1.308 million on june 30. 1957. to closer to $900 million today. with an estimated minimum adequate reserve of about $860 million. the only reason we have these reserves. as i say. is that we have taxed ourselves to produce them and are taxing ourselves more right  to try to restore these reserves. in addition. by every standard contained in these tables as to the soundness of the way of conducting a program of unemployment compensation. as to the taxes levied. the benefit paid. new york is about in the middle range. new york has  been a profligate state. it has  gone overboard. we have  yet reached the triggerpoint of unemployment which would give our unemployed 13 weeks more compensation under a law just adopted. i respectfully submit to all senators that we would be derelict in our duty tonight if we were willing to accept the argument which is being made that every state should be a receptacle unto itself. especially designed for unemployment compensation. but  for anything else. one would think of it as to anything else. only for unemployment compensation. because it so happens that that might work out to help us in new york. it is  fair to consider new york simply for the role of being the largest taxpayer among the states. i do  believe the people in the states which are represented by those who would take this point of view would themselves take it. it has been my experience that the people throughout the country have an understanding of the emergencies in other states. the people in new york state have an understanding of the emergencies in other states and have been most generous and most bountiful. as has been demonstrated by their representatives in the senate. whether represented by senator lehman. senator ives. my colleague . or myself. this is one night we of new york are on the firing line. asking for help. i hope very much that we will have it from the senate of the united states.
wait a minute. please. i was  talking in cliches and generalizations about foreign trade. i was talking about men and women who can hope to have decent futures. in terms of wages and security. in an industry which is having vicissitudes such as this one is. the complete solution of their problem will  come about by some kind of propping. with which i might go along. i have said i might go along with it. i can accept the characterization as cliches or generalized philosophy. the american government must put up its hard money. and the american taxpayer must back up some of the underwriting for support of industries that have been hurt by an overriding policy of american foreign trade. so they will stop being second to every other industry. this is a problem faced by people who are 50 and older. and who have better prospects than is the case in younger industries. which can shift for themselves. if we are to accept the responsibility for a solution of the problem. i say we are accepting only a quarter or a third of the responsibility when we talk about what we are going to do about imports. we must establish a concrete base under every workingman. so that if he is hurt by our trade policy. he may be made whole. it will take money. i have introduced a bill on the subject. the president of the united states. who comes from a textileproducing area. when he was a senator from massachusetts. introduced a bill. along with other senators. along the same lines. i say there can be a complete approach to the problem. which has been so eloquently put before us today. unless the federal government provides some kind of federal assistance for people adversely affected by the policy. withstanding all the good will in the world. and withstanding how we may act on the proposal. in which i may join. as i have said. i do  think it is the full answer for the difficulties of the people who work in this industry or in any business similarly affected. that is the point i wanted to make concretely.
. i wish to make one observation. in fairness to the very fine discussion which has taken place. i say to my colleague from rhode island that. as always. he is at his best when we get into the actual give and take of debate. one point. however. should be made. the senator from rhode island spoke of international action. international action. i think. is a very fruitful area to explore. i hope very much. considering the great prestige of the subcommittee. such action may be taken. in the heat of debate the senator spoke of all the nations producing textiles for export sitting down together to do something about the problem. this approach has been followed with respect to other commodities. it has been followed with respect to tin. for example. it is  at all beyond the realm of possibility in this field. there is aher thing we could do. which is to bring some pressure to bear. which i think is more than justified. through the international labor organization and through other means. to do something about the substandard wages which are paid in many competing countries. even with respect to the standards of those countries themselves. to say hing of any international standards. a third thing which could be done is to moderate somewhat the flow of imports into our country by voluntary agreements. we have had a voluntary agreement with the japanese. there is reason why we could  obtain voluntary agreements with other countries. each of these items is important. the senator from arizona and the senator from massachusetts both made suggestions with respect to the need for urgently. and on a high priority basis. considering a better depreciation policy. to enable industry to mechanize faster.
. the recent report of the national planning association on the problem of chronic unemployment emphasizes the prevalence of job discrimination because of age and makes special reference to the waste of skill. talent. and ability resulting from the fact that the most acute and widespread unemployment problem is in the 45 to 64 age group. nearly 28 million americans in our nations labor force are 45 years of age or older. and legislation such as i have proposed (s. 350. s. 351. and s. 352) is essential to protect them from discrimination. federal leadership must prevent and eliminate this injustice if our resources of skilled manpower are to prove adequate to the demands of an expanding ecoy. it would make it possible for many of the mature citizens  on the public assistance rolls to regain their dignity as productive working members of society. artificial and arbitrary age limitations severely limit job opportunities and lead to premature retirement of valuable workers. job discrimination because of age has already been recognized as a primary ecoic problem in nine states. new york. pennsylvania. massachusetts. connecticut. rhode island. delaware. oregon. wisconsin. and alaska. their laws ban age discrimination in private industry as well as in union and employment agencies. under the legislation i have proposed. the federal government would supplement existing state law against employment discrimination by giving the state agency authority to prohibit such practices by local firms engaged in interstate commerce. i ask unanimous consent to include with my remarks in the record the column by roscoe drummond entitled "u.s. faces real problem of chronic unemployment." and the report by joel seldin entitled "unemployment figure likely to stay virtually unchanged for 10 years." both of which appeared in the new york herald tribune. april 3. and the editorial entitled "focus on chronic joblessness" in the new york times. april 3.
madam president. "the challenge of industrial revolution ii." written by secretary of labor arthur j. goldberg and published in the new york times of april 2. 1961. is most worthy of attention and i ask unanimous consent to have it inserted in the record at the end of my remarks.
. the purpose of my amendment is to add to section 12 of the bill. which calls for a study by the secretary of labor of agricultural. handling. and processing exemptions. a study also of the exemption afforded under the act with reference to hotel. motel. restaurant. and other food service employees. it being emphasized that if they had been included under the act they would have been included subject to the $1 million and other restrictions upon coverage relating to interstate commerce. i may say to my colleagues that i fought rather hardat least i thought it was a vigorous effortto do something for the tipped employees in hotels. motels. and restaurants. those who. based upon my own kledge. greatly need our help in respect to minimum wages. in new york they are covered by a $1 minimum wage. in other states they are  covered. and are often in the most depressed areas in terms of compensation. but the point of view of my colleagues was so strongly against meindeed however. this is an exemption which can certainly make these employees feel that they are being discriminated against. though they need our ministrations as much as do any other employees covered under the act. so. at the very least. let us direct the attention of the department of labor to their problems. so the department can at least get the facts. the need for such a study is borne out by the statement of secretary of labor goldberg. who. in the hearings in march. stated: with respect to hotels. motels. and restaurants. we do  believe that we have sufficient information at this time regarding the complex problems involving rates of pay for tipped employees in these establishments to recommend that they be brought under the act. it was also considered undesirable to fragment the coverage of the act by bringing tipped employees under its protection. while excluding tipped employees of the same establishment. one of the objectives of the bill is to minimize those areas in which fragmentation of coverage already exists. this whole matter should be studied further. and i can assure you that the department will make such a study. on the question of fragmentization. i need only point out that. in leaving the bill as it is. we are certainly fragmentizing egh. i can think of hing more fragmented than department store or drug store sales clerks being covered. and department store lunch counter employees or dishwashers remaining uncovered under the bill. be that as it may. i hope the committee will make this much of a concession. so that the subject will be carefully looked into. i hope very much that the chairman of the subcommittee. the senator from michigan. . will deem it appropriate to accept the amendment.
i am impressed with the desirability of reports. i had hoped that perhaps the amendment could be designed to require the secretary of labor to give us his views as to a substantial increase in the cost of living or a substantial increase in unemployment as an outcome of the stepups. i am troubled. however. by giving a cabinet officer authority to leave the american ecoy in doubt for a rather considerable period of time upon the definition of the word "substantial." which is the only word of art used with reference to his authority. so i ask the senator whether he might consider favorably. king the vicissitudes which an amendment such as this must encounter anyhow. a proposal to require a seasonable report by the secretary of labor on these two questions. so that congress could. if it chose. act. but without giving the secretary a kind of authority which leaves the whole question up in the air in terms of planning and certainty. so far as the american ecoic system is concerned.
there is a minimum wage of $1. i should like to add that if we had many states like new york. we would  be here. new york competes with those other states which do  have minimum wage laws. and that is one important reason why i am for the bill.
i should like to answer both points. if i may. i shall answer the latter point first. the senator only bears out precisely what i said. that we can pass a law which will protect a label from being removed or altered by anyone. though that automobile. all 4.000 pounds worth. is at rest upon the dealers floor in a particular state and is  moving anywhere. that is precisely the argument. and it bears out precisely my constitutional point. as to the competition. we have. for example. 14 million visitors who come to new york city every year. those visitors are at liberty to shop in any store in new york city. what we are asserting here is a fundamental ecoic concept that we want the underlying basis of competition throughout the united states to be at a certain minimum wage when applied to units of a certain ecoic size. again i respectfully submit that this is  an exercise of a new power but of the thrust of our legislation.
i read the newspaper article to which the senator referred. so far as personal courtesy is concerned. the senator from tennessee ks that gover rockefeller is a man of character and distinction. i do  believe he would be intentionally discourteous or would make any reference which could. at least wittingly. be so construed. i am sure the gover will make that clear to the senator in reply to the telegram which the senator has said he sent to the gover. however. the two factual points i should like to makeand i have  had an opportunity to question gover rockefellerrelate to statements which must be taken in the context of a rather largescale movement in our state. including job development and other activities. to make a congenial activity for the retention of business and the securing of new business for the state of new york. i feel certain that the gover himself will respond to the senator from tennessee. but i think it is only fair that i should make some point of the general frame of reference in which the gover was speaking at the opening of what i understand is a rather new and enlarged plant which will provide a large amount of employment. it was the opening of a new ibm plant which was the occasion for the govers remarks on this subject. there has been a long and very successful movement in the state of new york. on the part of the commissioner of commerce and the gover. looking to the employment of emous numbers of people in our state. some 7 million persons are employed in our state. the other point relates to unemployment compensation. again a matter of pertinence to my state. i think the senator from tennessee ks that new york has often led the country in terms of desirable social welfare legislation. in respect of unemployment compensation. it is a fact that we had already passed an unemployment compensation statute which had a trigger point  quite reached when congress acted. but which. when reached. would have assured us of an improvement in unemployment compensation benefits. of all the states which will probably be likely to repay in terms of whatever they get out of the system which the federal government has created. certainly new york is the most likely to repay in full. i make these observations so that the record which the senator is making may be complete as to the point precisely made by the gover in terms of his views on stock options. i feel certain that. as is characteristic of him. he will respond in full to whatever questions the senator has asked him.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record an editorial from the new york times entitled "labor from mexico." which deals with the urgent need for proceeding wisely in respect to the extension of the law with regard to braceros. the importation of labor from mexico.
 i should like to ask whether. withstanding the failure to include such a provision. we retain complete freedom of action to seek from the department of labor a study in regard to what happens to laundry workers who are excluded from the coverage of this measure.
i shall take only a few minutes. my reason for speaking is to answer precisely some of the conclusions stated by the distinguished senator from florida . i have had a great many businessmen. especially in the retail field. come to me to ask. "why are we included." of course. only large businesses really in interstate commerce are included. there competitive conditions important to the ecoic life of our state become important. large states like new york. which are the home of businesses which engage in largescale business. and especially states like new york which can lose business to lowwage statesare very much interested in having established some kind of concrete wage base which recognizes existing standards of living. accordingly. this legislation is critically important to the ecoy of my state of new york and to the ecoy of other states which maintain high labor standards. secondly. a great argument has been made about the humanitarian qualities of the bill. certainly that is an extremely important point. i should like to join those senators who have protested the elimination of 140.000 laundry workers from the bill. it represents a disservice to the cause of the american working man in general. i certainly hope the omission will be corrected. i do  have in mind. . any foray again to increase the minimum wage which will start the day after this bill becomes law. the bill itself. of course. takes 5 years to be fully implemented. that will give it every chance to develop. however. i do feel that we must take care of inequities which are manifest. as in the case of the laundry workers and the tipped hotel. motel. restaurant. and food service workers. with respect to the question of competition. i should merely like to say this: the fact that we in america have high wage scales is attributable to two things. one is high consumption. however. even more importantand particularly because a reasonable argument has been made which must be answeredis the fact that our high wages are attributable to the great efficiency and automation and the high productive power of american workers. if this bill becomes lawand i am certain it will become lawit should  become law without a word for american labor. because without speaking  on american labor we would  be doing our duty. this bill was sought by american labor. and in asking for the bill american labor has implied a pledge that when it comes to a great many decisions. whether they deal with automation or imports. or the number of hours people work. or the intensity with which they work. and whether that be in connection with "featherbedding" decisions under laws or practices. or by way of bias and discriminationwhich still persists. i regret to say. even though rarely. in some segments of american labori believe that labor. by seeking the enactment of the bill. impliedly undertakes that it will do its utmost to respond on its part with the needed productivity and the highest morale. by this bill we have shown our confidence in the american labor movement. i believe very much that the american labor movement will hear my plea and other similar pleas made to it and show its confidence in us.
the allotment ratio. as it is called in the bill. interests me greatly. and i think it will interest our colleagues. i should like to ask the senator a question on that point. is there any rationale whatever for utilizing an approach which provides that only onehalf the amount which is allocated to the states. rather than the total allocation. is based upon the relationship of the income per child per state to the national income per child for the nation as a whole.
i thoroughly believe that we need a federalaidtoeducation bill. our disagreement in this regard is only upon the method of making it the best possible bill and. at the same time. being the most hardheaded about money. the senator from kentucky and i are concerned about the fact that we believe the same objectives could be served and that the monetary amount expended could be reduced by $250 million. which is certainly hing to be lightly laid aside. if the formula were more like our own instead of what is in the bill. we have the feeling that the committee. in the desire to proceed as it did and to be of somewhat more help to the socalled middle statesthat is. those between the highest income and the lowest incomestrained itself more than the purposes of the bill required. i think this is a fair statement of our point of view. and it is in way a reflection upon the committee. this difference merely represents a disagreement between us.
in reply to that argument. i say that as we examine the record of the middle income states. we observe that they have far less need and they certainly do  on the whole. considering them on the average. do any more to their educational system than do the lowest income states. the formula chosen by the committee constricts both the top and bottom for the benefit of people in the middle income states. who really do  need it. so we would  be serving the objective we seek to serve. and we would be penalizing to some extent states which need the help most urgently. and also states which pay the most. as these comparisons show. the figures for my own state and other industrial states are reduced even over and above what the original committee bill proposed for them. i tried to develop in this colloquy with the senator from oregon what might be helpful. because senators will read the record. and sometimes the written word is a little more understandable than is the spoken word.
. i think we had better get the figures straight. because there is some misconception about them. the relative ratio between the javitscooper formula and this formula comes out to about the same. the reason is that we started from a higher base in our formula. whereas the committee formula started from a lower base. in the committee formula. the lowest figure is $9.26 per student in connecticut. and the highest is $27.74 per student in mississippi. this is a ratio of 3 to 1. in the cooperjavits formula. the lowest is $20 and the highest. for mississippi. is $65.40. the next figure is $59.19. i think it is important to understand the difference. i do  expect to absorb all that punishment. because the facts do  justify it. the difference is a philosophic difference. whatever the senate decides. we will hold the banner aloft in getting the bill passed. under our concept. it is the states in the middle level which do  do as well. whereas in the committees concept it is the states in the middle level which do better. under our concept. we have the fiat sum of $20 per student. the higher income states do somewhat better and the lower income states do somewhat better in total. rather than in ratio. whereas in the committee bill less money goes to the higher income states and the lower income states. i agree with the senator that there must be some reason for the proposition of higher income states helping the lower income states. and there must be a greater incentive. i am  satisfied we are doing all we should do in terms of incentive. that is way i was interested in the incentive idea. it is only fair to say for the record that the difference comes out of somebody. somebody is always paying. matter what formula is fixed. the difference is in balance as between the two formulas. the committee concept giving more to the middle income states than would the cooperjavits formula.
i come  to kansas. as far as kansas is concerned. on the basis of the income of its people. under our plan kansas would be a 20 minimum base state. on the other hand. under the plan of the committee. kansas would be one of the states i referred to as in the middle income group which would be given more money than it needs. or really ought to have. for the purpose of sweetening the bill. under the committee bill. kansas would be given $25.84 per pupil per year. converting the committees amount per schoolage child to its equivalent per public school pupil. kansas is spending $131.650.000 a year for educationit did so in the 195758 school year. the latest for which official office of education figures are available. thus. it is spending 3.2 percent of the income of its people for education. which is less than the optimum of 4 percent. which we take as the figure representing a maximum reasonable effort toward operating the public schools.
because whatever may be ones supposition as to income. the fact is that the income per capita of kentucky is superior to the income per capita of people of perhaps 10 or 11 states which rank lower. therefore under our formula. we are giving greater weight to the states that have the greatest need.
this is the same measure precisely that i have stated. because this takes the aggregate income of the state and divides it by the number of public school children. when we compare that as between the states. it translates into about the same proportion. it is a true proportion whether we take the per capita income of the state or the income per public school pupil.
new york would be paid $20 per pupil in the third year. in the third year. $28.43 would be paid per pupil in kentucky. the reason why the relationship is  the same as the relationship of the income per public school pupil in kentucky and the income per pupil in new york is that we are dealing with the optimum cost of education. and the income per person in new york is in excess of any relationship to the need for optimum education. in kentucky the income gets closer to the need for additional funds. but even there the people are well able to maintain their schools.
i should like to make two points with the senator on that question. when the senator says. "able to carry their own load." that means that the income of the people of the state is such that the state is capable of doing it in terms of whatever amendments it would make of its laws or constitution. the fact is that there is a great feeling in the states and municipalities about the taxing sources of the federal government preempting an emous amount of the feasible taxing opportunity at any governmental level. that is one argument which was advanced in committee. and strongly advanced. for extending the bill so that it calls for a payment to all of the individual states. i believe there is something to that argument. adherence to it is reflected in our amendment by the $20 per pupil figure. the other point is that the senator from kentucky and i believe there is far less chance of the program being an indefinitely expanding form of aid. if most of the states receive a flat sum. than if every state participates on the slidingscale basis. our amendment nails down the amount for most of the states to a flat sum per pupil. on the assurance that this is something into which a state can sink its teeth. and that there is less likelihood that the program will run away with itself on some openend basis. as it could under the terms of the committee bill.
a formula for distribution is contained in the committee bill. it takes the amount which is authorized and divides it among the states. each state is allocated a share of the authorization equal to the percentage its allotment ratio times the number of its schoolchildren bears in relation to the total of the products for all the states. and so forth. what was done was to work out a formula in the bill which gave each individual state a proportion of the $850 million. whereas what we did was to take the $20 per pupil base. then. for the states outside the realm of those whose citizens have an income per pupil at least 75 percent of the national average. we adopted a standard of onethird the difference between what 4 percent of the income of the state would produce and what the state needs to spend if it is to come up to the national average expenditure for education.
the senator is referring to the annual personal income of the people of such state. the definitions which rule all of these particular provisions which are contained in our amendment are also in the fundamental bill. instead of poring through it . i shall do so while the senator from kentucky i[mr. cooperl is speaking. i prefer to reply after the senator from kentucky speaks.
i think the senator has asked a very valuable question. i hope very much the senator from oregon will soon be in the chamber. i shall ask him that question. and i hope the senator will also do so directly. i think we should both be joined in the answer. i am a member of the committee. i am a member of the subcommittee. i favor the bill. therefore. perhaps on this side of the aisle. with the senator from vermont and the senator from new jersey . who are also with me in favoring the bill on our side. i have a right to speak at least the ideas of the miity in terms of the legislative history of the bill. i say to the senator from that point of view. speaking because of my membership on the committee and on the subcommitteeperhaps the senator from vermont . who is in the chamber. will also say a word about itwe do  consider that the united states has any obligation of any kind or character. implied or express. to continue the program beyond 3 years as specified in: the bill. i hope very much. as has happened in the past with respect to other programslike the supplementary unemployment compensation. which comes immediately to my mind. which we had at one time and terminated and then reinstated when we had a recession situation and needed itthat the program can be terminated. this will depend strictly upon how it works and upon the condition of the world as well as the condition of our educational system at the time the act expires. . we all understand that we can pass. legislation at any time. i think it is only fair to say. and to make it crystal clear. that so far as i see it as a member of the miity. the obligation. express or implied. of the united states if the bill should become law. is such that we recognize hidden or leadingupto motive other than that this should be truly a 3year program with the fullest of good faith being exercised. if the program is ended at that time because in the good judgment of the congress it will  be needed from that tme on. i think it is only fair this should be made so clear that school administrators. state officials. and local officials will handle themselves in other way. the fundamental idea we have is to give an incentive and a push forward to the educational system. because the overwhelming majority of the statesi am   discussing laws or constitutions or sources of taxesin terms of income of the people. have potentials which certainly are sufficient to provide a far greater effort and a far greater improvement in our educational system over and above and beyond whatever we seek to do  in the federal aid to education bill.
. that very technique has been tried and has failed in other years. and the senator from kentucky and i. who are for federal education. felt that we had to come within a practical frame of reference or our work would be less than meaningless. i would like to answer the other question of the senator. which was a technical question. by pointing out that the word "preceding" in line 11 on page 3. as it refers to the fiscal years used to determine the annual personal income of residents of each state. refers to the latest 3 years for which figures will be available from the department of commerce. the difference between our bill and the committee bill is that we would take a 3year average with respect to the subject of personal income. the committee would confine it to 1 year. i would like to refer the senator on that question to page 9. lines 3 to 9. of the bill. which relates the committees formula only to the income for 1 year.
. the decision to be made on the amendment is  an easy one. particularly for those. including myself. who have been ardently fighting for civil rights for many years. in good seasons and out. and under trying conditions in this chamber. as well as throughout the country and. in my case. in the other body as well. but it seems to me there is one simple test which. when applied to the amendment. should resolve the question for those who feel as do the senator from maine [ of the committee on education and labor in the other body. the very person whose name this type of amendment bearsadam clayton powellhas himself said. "i will  interpose this kind of amendment because i am confident it will kill this legislation."
. as a member of the subcommittee on education and also as a member of the full committee on labor and public welfare. i wish to say that this subject was most intensively discussed and considered. on the amendment. there seemed to be pretty much of a division of opinion between senators who wish to have a federal aid to education bill enacted and senators who oppose the enactment of such a bill. certainly many senators who are devoted advocates of civil rights and civil rights legislation have a deep feeling that this is a time when we can win in this endeavor if we exercise the kind of selfdiscipline to which i referred in my previous remarks
. in closing. i should like to compliment once more the persons who worked so diligently at the legislative reference service in the compilation and analysis of the answers received from the 32 institutions of higher education. i believe that we are especially indebted to mrs. margaret malone. whose imaginative direction is apparent throughout the survey. also. i should like to express my thanks to the colleges and universities which supplied the thoughtful and thorough answers around which my proposed legislation took shape. it should be emphasized that the institutions of higher education surveyed and listed below are  a complete list of those offering programs of international affairs studies in the united states. the title of the survey makes that clear. it is a survey of selected institutions. i believe that an excellent crosssection of the programs in this country was covered and that the opinions expressed in the survey are representative of the needs felt by our academic community. this formidable component of american civilian strength needs to have the right training in order to do the work which our country needs to do throughout the world. based upon the very authoritative survey to which i have just referred. having introduced the bill. i intend to press for its consideration before the committee on labor and public welfare. of which i am a member.
the question of need has been raised by the very same friends and colleagues who commiserate about the fact that we are underusing the resources of our country. it must be remembered that houses will be built on the basis of demand. and that such construction will greatly stimulate production in this country. the incomes of 40 percent of our people permit them to own houses. but the incomes of 60 percent do . the mean income of the american family is said to be somewhere around $7.000. the last figure i saw was $6.600. it is a fact which disqualifies a large proportion of the american people from owning homes. so we have the capability of a tremendous stimulant to the american productive ecoy. as well as a tremendous social benefit of the greatest importance to the majority of the american families.
madam president. recently i introducedand i invite the attention of senators to ita bill called the international affairs study act. it is closely related to the purposes of the bill to establish a peace corps. incidentally. the peace corps bill was introduced on the same day i introduced the bill for an international affairs study act. it is my belief that the success of the peace corps is very heavilyperhaps almost entirelydependent upon the implementation of the international affairs study act. which. incidentally. i shall call up as an amendment to the national defense education act. which is  being considered in the subcommittee on education of the committee on labor and public welfare. my bill provides for the training which is so desperately needed by those whose good will and patriotism has swelled the ranks of peace corps applicants to 10.000. . by way of implementation of my remarks. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record an article entitled "eight countries ask help of peace corps." published in the new york herald tribune of june 5. 1961. and an editorial entitled "the peace corps." published in the new york times of june 5. 1961.
. i invite the attention of the senator from minnesota to the fact that it so happens that i. too. intended to speak to precisely the same point about the peace corps. i ask unanimous consent that the portion of the article in the new york times which deals with the reception of the plan by business and labor may be printed in the record at this point as a part of my remarks.
madam president. i should like to report to the senate some progress in my campaign to get more government defense contracts to labor surplus areas in new york state. an analysis of defense procurement covering the first 3 months of 1961 shows that nine of new york states labor surplus areas received more defense contracts then they did during the same 3month period in 1960. three areas showed decreases. two other areas were named labor surplus areas for the first time during this period and. therefore. there is basis for comparison. while these new procurement figures indicate some progress. additional action needs to be taken to streamline defense procurement policies so that labor surplus areas will receive a more substantial number of government contracts. government defense orders awarded to new york states 14 labor surplus areas during the first 3 months of 1961 totaled $50.8 millionan average of $3.6 million per area. for the same period in 1960. a total of $38.5 million was awarded to 12 labor surplus areasan average of $3.2 million per area. the nine areas showing increases were: albanyschenectadytroy. uticarome. amsterdam. auburn. elmira. jamestowndunkirk. ogdensburgmassenamalone. plattsburgh. and wellsville. the three areas showing decreases were: buffalo. gloversville. and newburghmiddletownbeacon. total defense contracts awarded to all new york state firms. whether in labor surplus areas or . amounted to $563.8 million for the first 3 months of 1961. this represents a decrease from the $752.8 million awarded to new york firms for the same 3 months of 1960. for the same period california continued to receive an increase in defense contractsfrom $1.123 million to $1.240 million. the latest defense procurement figures emphasize once again the need to open up procurement opportunities to more intensive competition. open bidding is  applied to less than 15 percent of the $23 billion awarded in defense contracts. it is time we insisted upon more competition to give everyone a chance to bid for this business. madam president. i ask unanimous consent that a table giving facts on this subject may be printed in the record.
madam president. the battle. friendly but vigorous. in respect to defense contracts. between new york and california continues. my colleague. the senator from new york and i. and our colleagues in the other body. are pressing for more competition in regard to defense orders. we have introduced proposed legislation to that effect. we appreciate fully the sporting interest which is involved. but we are determined that there shall be more competition. and we are of the belief that if there is more competition. our state will do better. for our business and labor will sharpen up their pencils for that purpose.
. more and more attention has been directed properly to the problems of the domestic migratory agricultural worker. already during this session much has been said concerning conditions and what could be done to help this group of americans. the committee on labor and public welfare has reported out a number of the bills on this subject reported out of the subcommittee of which i am a member. i wish to draw attention to what has been done and is continuing to be done by the state of new york. traditionally in the forefront among the states in comprehensive legislation for the protection of the domestic agricultural worker. migratory agricultural workers perform a vital service and new york recognizes it. indicative of the current status of legislation and its enforcement and the protections and positive programs available to migratory agricultural workers in new york state is an article from the july issue of the industrial bulletin of the new york state department of labor: "state labor department safeguards migrants: protects welfare. rights of 20.000 crop harvesters." i ask unanimous consent that this article be printed at this point in the record.
it has always been my belief that we could best serve our country. the public interest. and business if we flag our ecoy as a consumers ecoy. unfortunately. during the day i have had only episodic bits of the presentation. but i shall read the record with the deepest interest. i am delighted that the miity leader. the senator from illis . has seen fit to say that we on this side of the aisle. after examinationeven critical examinationwill have our say on this subject for the following reason. the thrust of the argument appears to be that if industrial price makers will hold fast. such action by them is called for both by public interest and by the dynamics of their own ecoic situation in terms of the reasonableness of what they have any right to expect as to a profit. there may be other things which must be done by other segments of the ecoy in order to make good upon this concept which has been discussed today so eloquently. i feel that if we can make some contribution to that discussion in a constructive. positive and affirmative way. so much the better and i really think that those who complain about senate debate and the fruits of our labor here will have reason to rejoice if we can develop this question together from all points of view. surely. we are the party of business. and we ought to be proud of it. we should make our contribution to business in the public interest. i hope very much that we shall have the privilege of doing so in the course of the discussion.
perhaps the senator in charge of the bill  on the floor. will give this a little consideration. and perhaps will even talk to the secretary of labor about it. i agree with the senator that i do  think it is a major problem. but if the senator feels strongly about it. as he does. perhaps the senator would give consideration to it and talk again to the secretary about it.
. i express support for the socalled crew leader bill. this bill developed in the administration of secretary of labor mitchell during the last administration. and has  happily come to action in the administration of secretary of labor goldberg. the best evidence of the need for this bill is experience. i therefore ask unanimous consent that there may be printed in the record as a part of my remarks a letter addressed to the counsel of our subcommittee on migratory labor by m. p. gatherwood. industrial commissioner of the department of labor of the state of new york.
i think we must give priority to protection of children. i am sure everyone would agree with that statement. in my own state it happens that anyone who employes more than two people. even domestic help. is required to obtain workmens compensation. that may  be the universal rule. also in my own state workmens compensation is easily available. they even have a state agency to insure risks that find it difficult to get insurance otherwise. again that may  be true elsewhere. but one thing is sure. recognizing the need and the fact that we must take some real action with respect to child labor in order to protect children. we shall also have to architect the practical provisions. and so i hope we shall use the time effectively.
. we have  before us a dramatic example of the national dilemma resulting from a wage settlement and management pressures which have set off the threat of new inflationary pressures rising from the basic steel industry. the time has come to provide the framework for the exercise of voluntary wage and price responsibility. i ask unanimous consent to have the two columns by mr. lawrence inserted in the record at this point.
. the same point is made in an interesting letter written by a group of ecoists from five of our leading institutions of higher education. and published in the new york times of september 3. 1961. the letter is headed "wageprice issue." the writers of the letter come pretty much to the same conclusion. namely. that the relation of wages to prices is a chain reaction proposition. if there is an increase in wages. it is bound to have correlative application in prices. and. if restraint and discipline are desired. together with service to the national interest in the form of prices. it must be obtained through wages. including steel wages. i ask unanimous consent that the letter from the group of ecoists may be printed at this point in the record.
i have  yet had an opportunity to be heard in this debate. i shall . of course. take any of the time of the senator. except to state that i shall support the senator on the vote. i believe improvement is needed in the whole atmosphere of american labor. especially of agricultural labor. i have the ho to serve on the subcommittee which deals with migratory labor. along with the distinguished senator from new jersey . the whole climate needs to be changed in terms of many areas. including the elementary area of union recognition. i believe the general thrust of the senators activities is to endeavor to put agricultural labor. at long last. in some frame of reference with labor generally in the country. i shall support his motion.
as i have already said. the meeting will be held on october 5 in paris at the nato headquarters. preceded by meetings of the ecoic committee. of which i am chairman. the department of state and the german federal republic and international organs of the atlantic community will be present as observers. an invitation has also been extended to the aflcio. through its distinguished european representative. irving brown. the two groups will explore matters of free world interest in the foreign ecoic field. with special emphasis on the need for business cooperation among the private ecoies of the atlantic community countries to supplement the efforts of their governments to aid the less developed areas of the free world and to achieve maximum ecoic cooperation within the atlantic community. this effort is especially pertinent  in connection with the establishment of the organization for ecoic cooperation and development. to which we have adhered in the senate. in view of the fact that both the united states and the german federal republic are represented. and the purposes of which include so importantly the coordination of aid to the less developed areas. i conclude upon this e: the survival of freedom demands this businesslike procedure in the broad national interest. i am sure that we will find it worth while. private enterprise in the united states and in the other industrial nations of the free world. including both labor and management. is coming to grips. at last. with the paramount challenge facing the survival of our free way of life: the encroachment of communist ideology and power on the independence of the developing nations. this new focusing of attention and energy by the leaders of private enterprise is perhaps the best augury for the future of freedom on this planet. threequarters of the ecoic power of the united states rests with the private sector. similar ratios exist in most of the great industrial nations of the free world. the effective application of the resources resting in the private sector is. therefore. essential. if we are to meet successfully the total application of all our resources to the success of freedom. the demonstration of how these resources of free enterprise can be harnessed to work voluntarily and with good will in the public interest represents one of the most potent arguments which we have in answer to the easy promises made by the communists of the advantages of totalitarian statism. . in that respect. i call attention again to a brilliant address on the subject of the soviet ecoic offensive delivered on september 20just a day or two agoby the distinguished senior senator from minnesota . it is my intention to use this address. which i consider very good. as one of the staff papers in the meeting of businessmen to be held in paris. i hope to return to the senate at the conclusion of that meeting in order to give the senate a report as to the results achieved. i think the results should prove almost revolutionary in the concept which is being launched by these two groups of united states and german businessmen. the united states group headed by dr. e. g. collado. of the standard oil co. of new jersey. and the german group headed by fritz berg of their national federation of industries. again i emphasize that this will all be done in a fishbowl. with the respective departments of state of both countries participating. and with an invitation. which i am confident will be availed of. having gone to our own great labor federation to send its representative to the meeting as an observer.
. again the depressing effect of this kind of static wage in a dynamic situation becomes clear. a able exception resulted from department of labor action under earning policies in the lower rio grande valley. where the picking rate rose from $2.30 to $2.50. but this followed a period of several years in which there had been change in rate until 1959. when. by virtue of the department of labors action. the rate rose from $2.05 to $2.30. finally. in the imperial valley of california. wage rates remain unchanged at 70 cents an hour between 1951 and 1959. recently the average hourly rate has increased to 90 cents an hour. nevertheless. this rate is about 35 cents below the average for the state as a whole. the imperial valley of california is a mexicanworkerdominated employment area.
i thank my colleague for that contribution to the facts which i have stated. and i am very glad to receive it. as it is most pertinent to explaining the facts and figures. again i point out the pattern in different states with different agricultural occupations. where mexican farm labor is an element in the wage picture. it results in depressing it and preventing it from keeping pace with general ecoic advance. it is very interesting to me that the conferees. who favor the program. have included in the agreed conference report a restriction upon the use by mexican farm labor of automatic machinery. as i see it. the outlook for increased development of automatic machinery is the very thing which has redeemed most of american labor. let us leave it out of what can be compared with stoop labor in agriculture. it seems to me that by encouraging this program we perpetuate a situation in which more and more of the same will be required. instead of getting to the day when. by the utilization of the highest form of automation. which is in the american pattern. we may bring into agriculture the same techniques. the same earnings. the same status. in terms of labor. which we are gradually attaining in industry. and very much for the same reason that we have encouraged and pressed the idea of automation.
we are dealing with a set of effects. some of which may be more indirect. more implicit. than others. but. generally speaking. i think the opponents of the conference report have successfully traced out a depressant pattern. which is incident to the way in which the mexican labor predicament operates. and which will be further helped by the way in which the proposed legislation is brought to us. we have an opportunity for some improvement in the position of other american agricultural workers by reason of the way in which the program was amended under the amendment of the senator from minnesota. i conclude with one further thought. it is very interesting to me to e that there is beginning to be a division of opinion. even in states where mexican farm labor is used. . one part of the state was against it. and one part for it. this is a very revealing observation. it has shown up in the votes that we have taken on the measure in the senate. it is a very revealing observation because when we begin to have deleterious and adverse and regressive ecoic effects from a particular kind of law. the first people who are likely to feel its worst effects are those who may have heretofore profited from it. they begin to have some differences of opinion among themselves. it begins to work out badly for some of them at least as to this proposal. so it seems to me that this is again a confirmation of the view that this program needs to be lifted up a very material ch from where it is. and that the amendment of the senator from minnesota. which has received consideration whatever in the conference report. was entitled to far more consideration that it did receive. and that therefore the effort of the proponents of the conference report. including myself. is fully justified on the situation which we face here
. one of the great voices of the labor movement with a rich tradition of accomplishment is the uniteditalian american labor council. at its annual conference in new york city on december 21. 1961. that council adopted a series of resolutions relating to the massacre of 13 italian airmen in the congo. and so forth. i ask unanimous consent that the resolutions may be printed in the record.
. i ask permission of the senator from minnesota and the senator from california to be joined by unanimous consent in the sponsorship of the bill they have introduced. s. 1360. i understand that what i request is agreeable to them. i wish to state that i consider this measure to propose a logical and necessary extension of the davisbacon act. so as to include fringe and other benefits. in addition to its present inclusion of the level of wages and salaries. inasmuch as i am a member of the committee which undoubtedly will be dealing with this measure. i felt that i wished to be identified with the sponsorship of the bill itself. let me ask the senator from california whether what i propose is agreeable to him.
 recommended earmarking up to $5 million of social security funds for grants to the states in 1963 and $10 million a year thereafter. i believe. however. the provision suggested to be inadequate to the purpose. i have been calling attention to the need for a federal program of day care assistance for a long time. and in the 86th congress i introduced "the day care assistance act of 1959." authorizing a federal program of $12.5 million annually. to be allotted to the states on a matching dollar for dollar basis. and $12.5 million to be administered to "impacted" areas. again. in the first session of the 87th congress. on march 7. 1961. i introduced legislation to establish a program of federal aid to improve day care services in the same amount. that bill. s. 1209. has been endorsed by the day care council of new york. inc.. a voluntary group that has pioneered in the improvement of day care services. and by the national committee for the day care of children. i am also a cosponsor of s. 1131. which would amend the social security act to establish and operate day care centers for children of migrant agricultural workers. my bill would make available a total of $25 million a year in federal funds for this muchneeded program of day care centersa far more realistic sum of money to meet the need. it is moreover. the kind of proposal also that incorporates republican principles of federalstate responsibility. i have been calling for hearings by the committee on labor and public welfare. and i hope  that they will be given an early schedule.
yes. i have one other poiht. . i have had a great many letters from businessmen in new york complaining about the bill. as i analyze the letters. they boil down to the question as to whether or  the pending bill should extend to a plan which is unilaterally management managed or union managed as well as a plan that is jointly managed by labor and management.
i am pleased to hear that statement from the senator. i am pleased that the conferees have done about as well as could be done in any conference. withstanding the unhappiness of the senator from pennsylvania and myself about certain of these matters. there is aher thing that can be said in asking the senates approval of the conference report. there may be some argument about the figure of 25.000 new jobs a week. we have had that argument before the joint ecoic committee. there are questions of substantial difference. certainly. the answer is that the training afforded in the bill will provide needed training for persons who will be added to the work force. will the senator  agree with me that at least aher very major objective of the bill is how to alert american labor to the coming automation and the fact that we must produce more. and produce more efficiently. how are we going to do it unless we find techniques which will enable us to go forward in the direction of giving to the worker some concept of the needs and the help he will require in making the adjustments which we ask him. on ecoic and patriotic grounds. to make.
. i should like to make one observation on the debate on the steelprice situation. yesterday. i spoke on this subject. it seems to me that the rest of business is yet to be heard from. and labor is yet to be heard from. i rather hope that the debate which has been engenderedand quite properly so. i believeby the very precipitate act in raising the price of steel. and because of the way that was done. and because of its timing. may yet engender an even greater determination on the part of great segments of american business and on the part of american labor to maintain the degree of discipline which all of them thought would be maintained when the original negotiation between the steel companies and labor was so successfully contemplated. and i believe we have a right to suggest that this evidence first be obtained before we discuss. in connection with the debate on this subject. the position of great segments of american business outside the steel industrysegments which so far have  been heard fromand also the position of american labor. which has yet to be heard from on this very serious point. i make this statement because. although members of the senate may express their own views as to the increase in the price of steel. i believe we should  take it for granted that other segments of american business will pursue the same course. until they do. we should. instead. encourage them  to do so.
. i shall ask to have inserted in the record at the conclusion of my remarks an editorial from the new york times of april 16. calling for "immediate steps to improve the cooperation of industry. labor and the government." i believe that we should proceed to consider such steps and would like to bring to the attention of my colleagues a bill for this purpose to establish a peace production board. s. 2204. which i introduced in the senate last year. also. i shall insert in the record an editorial from the new york herald tribune of april 15 and from the wall street journal of april 16. the importance of a mechanism to achieve cooperative action among labor. management. and government at all levels. resides  only in what it would do. but also in its ability to establish a procedure which will be deliberate and which would preserve traditional areas of responsibility for all participants. the white house advisory committee on labormanagement policy does  have the authority or the staffing to initiate ecoic policy as between government and business. it is the job of the congress to establish a mechanism which will be able to deal with the ecoic challenges of our time through the application of public policies conforming to our traditions and to exigency. i am pleased to say that some small start has been made on the solution of this problem at the grassroots level through the provisions in section 205 of the manpower development and training act. which are designed to encourage the formation of local and industrywide labormanagementpublic committees. the value of such committees was demonstrated in the steel labor settlement. where the preparatory work of the industrywide committee was instrumental in taking several vital issues out of the conflict of bargaining negotiations. i ask unanimous consent for an additional minute.
furthermore. i am informed that many communities have already been in touch with the department of labor. requesting assistance in forming such local committees. this is indeed an encouraging response. but. these local committees are only a part of the purpose of the peace production act. s. 2204. they form essential bases for. but they do  solve. the broad national policy questions in the operation of the ecoy in the public interest. grassroots responsiveness to this idea must be carried to the top levels of management. labor leadership. and government. . i ask unanimous consent to have inserted in the record at this point the text of s. 2204. so that the members of the congress and other readers may examine it in the context of these remarks and of the debate which has been taking place during the past week.
first. i express my pleasure in being associated with the distinguished senator from oregon in respect of his views relating to a change of rule xxii. more than that. i should like to express my agreement with the senator that a determined majority could do what must be done in the senate chamber over a long egh period of time. i believe that a change in the rule is indicated. a determined majority does  have to employ all the weapons which it would have to employ in advance of a change in a rule. but as the distinguished senator from illis has said. any change in a rule depends upon a determined majority. we shall  get anywhere in january in such an attempt without. a determined majority. i should like to join the distinguished senator from oregon. whose voice is so important in the country. in telling the american people that hing will happen with respect to measures of the kind before the senate without a determined majority that the people have called to account.
i am very grateful to my colleague. may i say. in response. that vindictiveness is  the way of american public life. i voted. in my time. against the tafthartley act and other measures which i thought were punitive and vindictive on labor. i believe the same way about vindictiveness toward management. or in any other segment of our ecoy. if anybody gets vindictive. the american people and the american form of government. including congress. have ways to deal with it. i think we have a right to move forward on the assumption that vindictiveness will  be a part of the american scene. i have said these things todayand i will be brief because i respect the time of the senate and its desire to pass the bill today. if possiblewhen we are appropriating money in the area of $48 billion. where does it come from. it comes from the productivity of the ecoy that we are talking about. the government produces hing. the government collects and does the things the people want done. this is an emous block of production we are talking about so it is very pertinent to decide what i the best policy to pursue in order to give us the best possibility of enjoying the fruits of that production for our owr safety and defense. in conclusion. i would like to make part of my remarks the four question. which the president asked in his yale speech. to which i am making my contribution in the way of an answer to those questions. these questions are: how can we develop and sustainstrong and stable world markets for basic commodities without unfairness to the consumer and without undue stimulus to the producer. how can we generate the buying power which can consume what we produce on our farms and in our factories. how can we take advantage of the miracles of automation. with the great demand that it will put upon highskilled labor and yet offer employment to the half a million of unskilled school dropouts every year who enter the labor market8 million of them in the 1960s. how do we eradicate the barriers which separate substantial miities of our citizens from access to education and employment on equal terms with the rest. i hope the president will consider it is  only a problem which is in the executive. but one which is in the congress. and will therefore pay strict attention to the observations and suggestions which are made here.
 to reaffirm the policy he set forth in his executive order of march 1961. which established the committee. i urge him to clarify the role of his alleged "good friend." robert troutman. jr.. in the work of the committee in contradistinction to the work of its executive director. john g. feild. the reports of division in the committee on equal job opportunity underscores the need for legislative action to establish a statutory base for the committee. i introduced such a measure on january 17. 1961. with a bipartisan group of 13 other senators. there is a longstanding history for this proposal. dating back to the two previous administrations. but the present administration. as has been its practice with other urgently needed civil rights legislation. has refused to back such a proposal. i have today sent letters to the senate committee on labor and public welfare and the senate subcommittee on labor urging that hearings be conducted on this bill. in this way. congress will be able to fully examine the work of the committee. the need for a statutory base. and the desirability of continual congressional oversight of the committees activities. i ask unanimous consent to append the news story from the new york times of june 18. 1962.
second. there was the question of the option. even in the amendment which i filed. in the first place. the standards for insurance or other coverage were to be set by the secretary. in the second place. the policy was  to be a cancellable policy. there was to be a guaranteed renewal at the option of the insured. in the third place. at all timesand i think this is important. as bearing upon our good will in the matter. at leastthe value of the benefits to be contained in the coverage must be  less than the value of the benefits to be provided by the kinganderson proposal. finally. at time would an older person be without coverage. we have provided even in our amendmentand. as i say. i hope that will be washed outthat the minute the policy lapses or is canceled for any reason. even for payment of premiums. the government coverage will immediately take effect. i point that out to my colleague. because i think it is fair to those of us who have taken this position. finally. i should like to ask my colleague one other question. i assume that his view of the option turns upon the fulcrum of the discussions. that is. is the option to be for a premium payment or is the option to be for a reimbursement of benefits actually conferred. that goes directly to the solution of the socalled selectivity of risks argument. the traditional trade union argument. with which i k the senator is very familiar. may i have the senators reaction.
madam president doubt the senator from vermont will remember that i was one of the most ardent opponents of the regressive aspect of financing the proposal through the social security system. i opposed the program at the time it was before the senate. and some thought at great political risk. i voted against the bill in august of 1960. i am proud i did so. madam president. i am thoroughly persuaded that this is the way the people who are in that income bracket would like to have it. if they look at it in that way. from the point of view of a hardheaded. payasyougo approach. it involves a vast source of money. and i do  see how we as senators could in good conscience say. "we are  going to permit you to do so." we have  had a plebiscite or a referendum upon the subject. but i say to my beloved colleague that i am convinced that the overwhelming majority of people who are under social security want to finance the program in this way. they take a certain pride in the fact that they would actually deposit the money themselves. i do  see why we should prevent them from doing so. because that is a very hardheaded way of paying for most of the cost of the program as we go along.
. new york has been seriously disrupted by the eastern air lines strike. as have many other cities in the country. this does  mean. necessarily. we have to take action which may be unwise. i agree with the senator from oklahoma. who graciously offered me the opportunity to join in sponsorship of his bill. that there is a serious problem. but i did  think it wise to join as a cosponsor. as a member of the committee on labor and public welfare. the senator has pointed out for all of us the real deficiency in the railway labor act as well as in the national labor relations act. in the final analysis one does  k what to do about major strikes which tie up major elements of the transportation system except to come to the congress. there fore. i wish to state advisedly. as a member of the committee on labor and public welfare. i shall consider it my duty to do everything i humanly can to get an immediate hearing on the bill. i agree that the senate and the congress must and should act in the national interest. the senator from oklahoma has given us his proposal. his prescription. there may be others. congress is charged with the responsibility of determining what is the best approach. the congress is the final residual basis of authority. that we must act in a situation of this character i have doubt. i hope very much that other colleagues on the committee. including the senator from west virginia . will assist me in getting committee attention promptly directed to the problem.
. it is  often that a senator takes the floor when amendments are offered. as the amendments are offered. which were his own creation. and finds himself in a different position from the one he was in when the proposal was first developed. as this was. in august of 1961. i am very grateful to my colleagues for the delicacy with which they have treated me in this connection. i also wish to say to my colleague from massachusetts especially. and to others who have joined him in this proposal as a substitute. that they have helped to bring us to the pass in which we are . they have helped to make a major advance in respect to the proposal which i hope will become a statute on the books. for example. had i  had the necessary support for extending any health care idea to all persons over 65. whether or  on social security. which was represented by the overwhelming vote on the republican side of the aisle in 1960. i do  believe that. with the best will in the world. the senator from new mexico could have swung his legions over to that idea. so already something has been accomplished. i believe also that the opening of the door in respect of some option to admit the private enterprise system can be very heavily attributable to the kind of solid support which that measure has had on this side of the aisle. so i think that matter what has happened. a real contribution has been made. we ought to consider the points with respect to which we are together. first. we are together on the fact that we want universal coverage. that is being accomplished. everyone  agrees to that. second. we are together on the fact that we want a trust fund. that is being accomplished. everyone agrees. third. we are together on state administration. everyone agrees to that . fourth. we are together on the question of opening the program to private enterprise to some extent. which we all agree upon. such a provision will be incorporated in whatever plan may prevail. where we have parted company is essentially in the method of financing and in the income test. as to an income test. it represents a compromise with the existence of the kerrmills act. the kerrmills act is the fundamental income test measure. i therefore believe it would be incompatible  to have a health plan of any kind. whether it was the measure of the distinguished senator from massachusetts . the measure of the distinguished senator from new mexico and myself. or anyone elses. which is constructed on yet aher income test. we have one income test. which is pretty much at the discretion of the states. as the senator from new mexico has said. therefore. i think whatever we  do must be relieved of the idea of an income test. we have been through that subject. we must  be thinking of some other kind of health care legislation. the most critical element is the method of financing. that point brings me to the only reason i have taken the floor. i am most regrettably compelled to vote against the saltonstall substitute. i appreciate the many fine arguments made in support of the amendment. some i have had the privilege of ackledging myself. i shall be compelled to vote against the amendment for the fundamental reason that i am convinced by the lapse of time that the people who will be paying the bill under the social security tax really want to pay it. that is a fundamental point which i think my colleagues must understand as to my thinking. i am intellectually convinced with the sixth sense of a politiciani have proof. gallup pollthat people want to pay the tax. they want the dignity and substantiality which payment of the tax would bring for them in the future. under those circumstances i think we can help but say. "all right. if that is it. then let it be pay as you go." matter how we slice the general revenue approach it would take a considerable amount out of the federal treasury. whether the plan might be the plan of the senator from massachusetts . which has a minimum pride tag of roughly $500 million. or my plan of 1960. which had a minimum price tag of roughly $600 million or $650 million. those amounts would come out of the general federal treasury. i am convinced that citizens want to pay the tax. i think we ought to let them pay it. especially as the plan would be protected by the options and other
i think the senator is very generous. and the senator ks i did the same with him. all of us admire the spirit with which the distinguished senator from california and his colleague have come to the defense of their own state and their own defense industries. i would  wish to engage in a debate running down the resources or capabilities of the state of california. we are proud california is in the union. we hope it is as proud of new york as we are of california. but in order that the record may be complete in connection with the senators statement. the points we have made have been essentially three: first. we have felt that the surplus worker question in various areas of the states has  been sufficiently considered in the overall policy. it has been considered to some extent. but we do  think it has been considered egh. it is important because those setasides are. in essence. pretty arbitrary. without any effort to change the lowest price criterion. and so forth. but are small in terms of the percentage of contracts allocated. the second point. which we think is of importance. is the geniality which develops in defense contract awards. without charging anybody with impropriety. and therefore our desire to open up defense contracts to more open competition. third. the senator from michigan raised the questionand in it we joinas to whether the percentage of defense contracts allocated to the west coast is getting so high as to raise serious strategic considerations. we have gone over that ground. we had a debate on it this morning. i emphasize these three points: one is trying to run down california or depreciate its capability in this field. or the job which the manufacturers in that state have done in fighting for business for that state. we think certain ground rules need to be changed which will give us a better opportunity to obtain contracts-
. i think the senator has  conceded the main point. which is that as long as it is done in one country. it is proper under this bill. and my concept is that if it is done in the european ecoic market. it is done in one country. because the european ecoic community is an ecoic entity. but my point is that this amendment is necessary in the interest of american companies which employ millions of persons and have thousands of stockholders and have companies operating in the european ecoic area. that is the point of the amendment. and it deals with one of the great concerns of american business generally in connection with this entire matter.
i thank my colleague. . almost all great men are controversial. and judge marshall obviously is exception. but i have heard of controversy about either the legal qualifications or judicial temperament of this inee. one witness was called by the subcommittee apparently to prove that judge marshall had slurred the white race in a discussion with him. instead this witness. dr. alfred h. kelly. testified that it was his opinion that judge marshall was "a man of the highest professional standards and ideals." and "a credit to the american bar and to the federal judiciary." he described the attempt to treat judge marshalls alleged remark as a philosophical observation as "absurd. even grotesque. in its bizarre distortion of reality." i will  delay the senate with a recitation of the lengthy proceedings in the committee with regard to this ination. suffice it to say that almost all the questioning was irrelevant and that hing brought out could possibly justify the intolerable delay in reporting the ination to the senate. there were veiled suggestions in the interrogation of the inee that his loyalty was in question. one who ks judge marshall could tolerate any such innuendos. the communists. of course. have made efforts to infiltrate the naacp. just as they have other civil liberties groups and the labor movement. the motivation for these tactics is  to aid the cause of civil rights or labor but to exploit the organizations involved for their conspiratorial ends. the reaction of the naacp to attempts by the communists to move into this organization are discussed in j. edgar hoovers book "masters of deceit." he describes the action of the naacp in 1950. which authorized its board of directors to revoke the charter of any chapter found to be communist controlled. he points out: the naacps national leadership has vigorously denced communist attempts at infiltration. the naacp has screened delegates when necessary to keep communists out of its conferences. its leaders have made it clear over and over again that communists are  welcome to participate in any naacp activities. thurgood marshalls voice has been heard frequently and eloquently in these assaults against communist hypocrisy and subversion. j. edgar hoover recounts an interesting bit of history in his book growing out of the famous scottsboro case. he tells how the old international labor defense. a communist front. attempted to convert the scottsboro case into a vehicle for communist propaganda. the naacp was also interested in the case.  as a vehicle for communist propaganda but as a challenge to our own judicial standards. in j. edgar hoovers words: after the scottsboro boys were first convicted. the naacp charged that the defense "fell considerably short of perfection." and then retained the late famed chicago criminal lawyer. clarence darrow. to represent the boys. in 1931 the late walter white. then head of the naacp. said the daily worker accused aher- defense attorney. stephen r. roddy. of being "a member of the ku klux klan. of having conspired with the prosecution to electrocute the nine boys. of having been the inmate of an insane asylum." according to white. the communists also charged the naacp as being "in league with the lyncherbosses of the south." as plotters to "murder the scottsboro martyrs." as sycophantic "tools of the capitalists." the naacp withdrew from the case. recognizing that the communist party was interested only in promoting "red fascism" in america. despite this history. we still hear charges that the naacp is "in cahoots" with the communists. those who make these reckless charges do  realize that unwittingly they serve the communist cause by breeding confusion. racial antagonism. and dissension among americans. charges that the naacp or men like thurgood marshall are in league with the communists are just as unprincipled. just as ridiculous. and even more dangerous than the charges by the communists in the scottsboro case that the naacp was in league with the klu klux klan. thurgood marshalls gallant leadership in the legal struggle for civil rights has strengthened.  weakened. america. his efforts have been devoted to realizing the most sacred ideals of our country.  any alien doctrines or principles. he has  been content with the conditions under which some americans live. he has done as much as any one man could to secure the legal and constitutional rights of his fellow americans. but since when has leadership in the struggle for equal justice in america been a cause for suspicion. if ever. we condemn any american for fighting for his rights under the constitution. the communists will have gained a major victory.
. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed at this point in the record an important resolution of the united italian labor council. inc.. calling for the modernization of our immigration laws. such modernization is critically and urgently needed in the interest of our nation and in the interest of the freedom of mankind.
. i considered henry dworshak a warm friend. above all. i knew him as an untiring and selfless worker in the cause of his honest and strong convictions on what would serve best our nation. it was always a fine sight to see henry rise from his seat to take up the cudgels for a cause. when he was through. senator and spectator could ever doubt where henry dworshak stood and what he believed. while we could hardly have disagreed more on a number of issues. i can imagine having disagreed with a nicer or finer person.
. there is more serious domestic problem facing our nation today than the unemployment problem. the unemployment rate stands at 6.1 percent todaysubstantially more than this nation can tolerate. it is a complex issue. with easy solutions. one of the most perceptive discussions of the problem was published last week in the rochester. n.y.. timesunion and other gannett newspapers. this series of articles was written by jack w. germond. of the timesunions washington bureau. and will be of interest to my colleagues. i ask unanimous consent to have the series printed point:
. for myself and the senator from minnesota . i introduce for appropriate reference a bill to amend section 9(b) (3) of the national labor relations act to eliminate the provision prohibiting the certification. as bargaining representative of persons employed as guards. of a labor organization which admits to membership. or is affiliated with an organization which admits to membership. employees other than guards. amendment of the act in this regard is. i believe. long overdue. the effect of the present provision in the statute is to prevent guards and watchmen from affiliating with unions of their own choice. they are compelled to form independent unions which. because of their usually small numbers. are unable effectively to represent guards and watchmen members in collective bargaining. as far back as 1949 efforts were made in the senate to enact legislation which would permit bargaining units of guards to affiliate with labor organizations of employees other than guards. such legislation was passed by the senate in 1949. but action was taken on it in the house of representatives. the late senator irving ives. of new york. introduced similar amendments several times. and. during the last two congresses. i have sponsored or cosponsored this measure. it is time that the national labor relations act recognized the importance to employees who are guards of being permitted to affiliate with established labor organizations. it should be ed that my amendment does  change in any way the present requirement under the act that a bargaining unit of guards can have in it employees who are  guards. i ask unanimous consent that the bill be printed as a part of my remarks.
i thank the senator from alabama. i should like the senator from oregon to tell us one thing. it seems to me that. apart from the clauses in the amendment relating to the acquisition of private companies. the amendment would add one thing to the labor clauses already in section 19(c) of the bill and that is the socalled washington agreement. which is incorporated in section 5(2) (f) of the interstate commerce act. i understand that that section has been made a part of the record. but. to be sure. i ask unanimous consent that it may be included with my remarks at this point.
the senator from arizona. when he argued this matter. said that would compel us to continue the employment of a man who might be a drunkard. who might be a bad driver. who might have some reason for being fired under the mal work rules. as i understand the language. so that the language may be clear. the socalled washington agreement uses the following operative words: that the employees shall  be "in a worse position with respect to their employment." does the senator construe that to meanthis is the way i construe itthat all the mal work rules and practices in effect at present under collective bargaining would remain fully in effect. it would  mean that a man could  be fired for proper cause as he can under present conditions. it would merely mean that he shall  enjoy a worse tenure than he enjoys  under a collective bargaining agreement or any other agreement or arrangement.
i am  at all satisfied with what is to be done with the money. unless we have some assurance from the administrator as to who is to disburse it. the u.s. civil rights commission has reported that in the handling of the money of the federal government there is a most outrageous use of it in segregated and discriminating ways. that is one of the big points made by the civil rights commission. i want the bill to pass. although i am  for title i. which i shall probably vote to strike. but i should like to have the bill pass. i am  for an amendment of the type discussed. this case is  like other cases. in which federal money is statutorially required to be given. in this case the administrator and secretary of labor can give aid to a project. i am  worried about the ycc camps. but i am bothered about title ii. which would give aid to communities where there is a pattern of segregation and discrimination in the particular communities. therefore. i say to the senator that before the bill has run its course. assurance must be given as to how the money will be administered. i think if such assurance is given. there will be a clear legislative road. to which we are entitled. we who favor the bill are also entitled to an assurance that the money will be dealt with in the way we intend it shall be used. and  on the basis of local custom.
. one item in this particular bill which interests me very greatly is the denial of any appropriation for childrens day care centers. withstanding the fact that we have authorized an amount for them and that the house appropriated $3 million for that purpose. i amstrongly in favor of that appropriation. and shall join with the senator from connecticut. who i understand will move to restore all or part of that appropriation. a recent study indicates that a minimum of 400.000 children under 12 are currently without any kind of care while their mothers are at work. in 1900. only 18 percent of the nations labor force were women: but by 1960. the ratio had risen to fully onethird. by 1970. an estimated two out of every five women in the united states will be working outside the home. adequate day care for children of such women and other mothers who must be away from home for long periods is a serious national concern. without such care during their most formative years. the children of the nation risk permanent damage to their emotional and moral character. ecoic necessity is the argument most often given for the need for day care. but other reasons loom large in documenting need. many children need day care because of behavior problems or because they have physical handicaps. because of illness at home. or because the home is overcrowded and the mother constantly overworked. i k of provision which could save us more. both in social and ecoic terms. than help in day care centers. because in many families where the mother could work. and  be on relief or welfare. she is prevented from doing so because of lack of services to care for her children such as a day care center can provide. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed in the record as a part of my remarks some evidence showing how greatly inadequate are these services throughout the country and how much we need such services.
i have talked to the senator from colorado. who is detained in the defense subcommittee of appropriations on a matter that demands his presence for some time. what i am trying to get is a firm statement from the senator from connecticut. i am willing to commit myself. the senator from colorado. i must say. wishes to be recorded as against the amendment. but he will  stand in the way of its being approved. although the senator from colorado is opposed to it. he will  stand in its way. if it is clear what the intent of the amendment is. that is what we want to get from the senator from connecticut. is it clear that this money will be used for the classic day care use. which is for working mothers or mothers seeking work.
the senator from colorado [mr. allotti is opposed to the amendment. but he will  stand in the way of the senator in charge of the bill accepting the amendment. the senator from massachusetts feels the same way. however. we must pinpoint the legislative intent. namely. that this money. if finally appropriated. will be used only for the classic day care purpose. that is. for the children of working mothers or mothers seeking work. period. does the senator agree to that.
. the defense department continues to pursue procurement policies which tend to aggravate rather than alleviate the ecoic problems of labor surplus areas. it is shocking how in practice the administration persistently iges its avowed policy of channeling more defense orders to labor surplus areas. its policies of procurement are creating worsening difficulties in labor surplus areas in new york state. the defense department must begin to strengthen and better direct its administrative mechanism for awarding defense contracts to labor surplus areas. including its new procedure whereby preference awards are made to firms producing in areas  classified as having substantial unemployment which certify that they will perform or subcontract certain specified percentages of the work to areas of substantial unemployment. this new procedure has certainly been of assistance to new york. as subsequent statistics will clearly demonstrate. new york states two major labor surplus areasbuffaloniagara and uticaromesuffered substantial drops in their share of prime defense contracts. instead of improving. during the first quarter of 1963. the new defense department figures show that contracts to the buffalo area in the januarymarch 1963 quarter totaled only $9.984.000a 43percent drop from the same quarter in 1962. when contracts totaled $17.408.000. the uticarome area showed an even more serious drop. contracts to that area in the first quarter of 1963 totaled only $1.829.000. a drop of 81 percent from the same quarter in 1962. when contracts totaled $10.268.000. these declines are  isolated cases but reflect an accelerated decline in new york states percentage of total military prime contract awards. for example. new york states share of total prime contract awards declined from $670 million in the first quarter of 1962 to $595 million in the first quarter of 1963a decline of 11.2 percent. new york states share of total prime contract awards has shown a steady decline through the yearsfrom 17.1 percent in fiscal 1954. 12.2 percent in 1957. 12.0 percent in 1961. 10.7 percent in 1962. and for the first 9 months of fiscal 1963. 8.9 percent. of new york states 13 smaller areas of substantial labor surplus. 8 showed unrelieved declines and 5 areas showed small gains in their share of prime defense contracts. the five areas showing gains were: elmira. genevacanandaigua. gloversville. ogdensburgmassenamalone. and watertown. the eight areas showing declines are: amsterdam. auburn. batavia. glens fallshudson falls. jamestowndunkirk. newburgmiddletownbeacon. wellsville. and plattsburg. i ask unanimous consent to have a table showing recent trends in prime defense contract awards in the new york state area of substantial unemployment printed in the record.
i had  expected to be present at this time. but i would like to express my satisfaction at the way in which the senator from new jersey and i have cooperated from the very inception on the subcommittee dealing with the problem of migratory labor and to pay my tribute to the quality of reasonableness and to the desire to accommodate views to the actualities of the situation which the senator from new jersey
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record a fine review and analysis of the new york state migrant labor program. which is one of the most advanced in the country. and a real pilotplant operation for what we are doing on the bills  being considered by the senate. this review was prepared by the office of executive deputy industrial commissioner robert d. helsby. of new york state.
this summ clearly shows that although so are being done in the labor ment. there is still much to b for example. as we k. th government gives aid to the em security program. that is. to th employment services. which a on through the states. i am so that segregation still persists programs. in that regard i testimony of the official of th ment. robert c. goodwin. adm of the bureau of employment of the labor department. giv the manpower subcommitte committee on labor and publi of the senate on june 20. 1963 mitted that some degree of se persists in certain offices. h that. "there are 3 where t] completely geographic segreg other words. what we call an negroes." and there are " where there is some degree o tion within the same building in some cases there is geogr regation. with one office for ne one office for whites. in ot there is segregation within th self. - in conclusion. i believe tha bursement of federal funds is ful and critical element in th struggle to live up to the words of the constitution. i ask unanimous consent th plete chart of the amounts ex federal aid to state programs into hundreds of millions of which will also show the am respective states pay into th treasury. may be printed in th
i thank the senator. but let us hope they are as good in terms of my fight for and my work for labor. i am deeply disturbed. i hope that i shall never have to vote for compulsory arbitration. but. like the senator from oregon. i must vote for what would save our nation. whatever that may be. and as regretful and tragic as it would seem to me in terms of our fundamental freedom. on the seizure issue i should like to ask the senator a question. the senator is a famous former dean of a law school. i have had a little experience in high class legal matters. it is possible that if the government had to seize the railroads. it would be held to have expropriated them and would be liable for fair compensation for their use. in this respect the taxpayers of the country must do a little thinking. also. this will be quite a massive undertaking for the united states. when i begin to think of what is required to operate a railroad. and begin to think of some government official operating them. as was done during wartime in our history. and what it might cost the taxpayer in terms of the use of the railroads for a period of time. i begin to understand something of the ecoic dimensions of the problem. in addition to the terrible cost of grinding the ecoy in many areas to a halt. which might be involved. that only lends added poignancy to the appeal which the senator. who has been a leader in efforts to bring about labor peace and who has actually settled some of our major labor disputes. is making today.
i have been reading the rules. i appreciate the desires which are involved and the fact that a bill or joint resolution can be referred to a committee unless that committee desires very much to take jurisdiction. at the same time. in all fairness it should be pointed out that this is a joint resolution which involves. in accordance with the wording of the rule. the mediation and arbitration of labor disputes. that point is very clear and specific. it seems to me that the joint resolution would certainly involve mediation and arbitration of labor disputes. the committee on commerce is entitled to deal with regulations of interstate railroads. buses. trucks. pipe lines. and interstate and foreign commerce generally. that seems a rather far cry from the specific suggestion. i was consulted on the question and i shall  object. but i should like to have the record clear on one point. as i said when i started. it seems to me that the jurisdiction of the committee on labor and public welfare would be absolutely uncomplicated and clear. conceivably the jurisdiction of the committee on commerce could be invoked. but i understand very clearly that we can make someone do something. therefore. although the joint resolution will be referred to the committee on commerce. ifor one senatorwould like to spread these facts upon the record so that if a contingency should arise which indicates that the labor dispute aspect of the question preponderated very strongly over the question of the regulation of interstate and foreign commerce or the regulation of the interstate railroads. the door would  be absolutely shut because one said anything about it and let the matter be referred. i am willing to see the joint resolution referred to the committee on commerce. as such action seems to be the prevailing view of the leadership as well as the prevailing view of the subcommittee chairman and the committee chairman. provided there is some caveat spread on the record that the question shall be dealt with and handled as a labor dispute. and at least we will have someone who said something about it so that if it does  work well. we might. as we sometimes have. be required to change our signals.
. i am very grateful to my colleague. the senator from oregon . i. am informed by the parliamentarian that the joint resolution. when offered. will be referred to the committee on labor and 13171public welfare. therefore the committee on labor and public welfare will be able to play its proper role both in relation to the railroad dispute and the general problem facing the country. the fact that the senator from oregon has joined with me in the effort is most auspicious because of the senators kledge of the subject of labor in the country and his outstanding prestigeful position on the committee on labor and public welfare.
. the pur.pose of the amendment is to provide that the states may recruit and train members of the national service corps who will serve in the corps upon the same theory that members of the national guard are members of the armed services of the united states. i should like to repeat that statement. because the idea is a very simple one. up to onehalf the sums appropriatedin the judgment of the administratorwill be devoted to state programs for training and recruiting national service corps men. according to the national plan and pattern. but on a state level. so that there would be an analogy with the national guard in terms of the national service corps. the same relationship that the national guard bears to the armed forces of the united states would be borne by the state trainees to the total national service corps. i am for the bill. i am one of its cosponsors. the amendment is designed to improve it. it is  designed in any way to hurt it. the reason for the measure that i have proposed is as follows: first. states would be entitled to utilize their own resources within a national pattern in a matter of this kind. in my judgment. in order to obtain some state benefits from the aggregate of effort. in addition. i have little doubt that if we took that action. we would very much more speedily realize the full potential of the corps. both in terms of recruitment and in terms of use. we would also enlist the cooperation of the states far more actively if an element of this corps were within each state. or at least within the possibility of each state. each of the states. as is shown clearly by the support of the amendment offered by the gentleman from south carolina . prides itself upon what it can do with this elite. dedicated. service corps. that is all the more reason for encouraging the particular state within the national pattern to find its own young people or older people who might be interested in order to enlist them within the state and as close to home as possible in projects which are eligible for the kind of service which the corps is ready to give.
i think the senator misunderstood me. i did  mean to be in session labor day. i have an aflcio labor day celebration to attend. and i think other senators do. too. i meant that i hoped the animation of labor day would .be conveyed. and i hoped we would labor diligently even though we were to be here until christmas.
i agree that this is the traditional remedy which would enable the nation to operate. it does  involve any new concept. i think we all ought to understand that the present proposal is a new concept. even the railway labor act does  provide for compulsory arbitration. as it stands today. the arbitration has to be voluntary. i do  want to debate this particular point with the senator. but i will state to him that my only experience is that if we are going to apply a remedy. we should apply a remedy which is. first. traditional. and. second. a sure remedy. seizure is both a traditional remedy and a sure remedy. that is why i feel this is the only way in which we can be sure that the railroads will operate. that brings me to the second point i made when the senator was occupied momentarily and did  hear me: even if the views prevail which all of us seem to feel are moving around us and will undoubtedly be offeredthat is. the house version of the measureif we should adopt them. if the dispute could  be settled by collective bargaining on the socalled secondary issues. this problem would be back with us in january.
i understand. i am coming to something. it seems to me essential that the report be made crystal clearbecause i do  think the language of the statute is clearthat that does  include the power to resolve the socalled secondary issues. because. as i read the language. there is imposition whatever on a board of arbiters to resolve matters which are  in disagreement. but it can resolve anything that represents a dispute between the parties. including the secondary issues. and leave hing for collective bargaining unless they would stay their hand. so. at the very least. if the language is  to be changed. the chairman of the committee ought to state that it does  mean precisely what it says.
i thank the senator. i shall support the amendments because i think they are constructive. withstanding the fact that for a long time i have felt that the remedy of seizure is preferable to the remedy of compulsory arbitration. this is the first time that congress has legislated compulsory arbitration. therefore. it is  meaningful only to railroad labor. it is meaningful to all labor. i am delighted that the senator. with his usual perspicacity. understood that this means something to the cause of freedom and the cause of labor generally. so that. as we are venturing into a very seriously dangerous field in terms of american freedom. at least we can try to do it with the minimum impact. since we have  given this matter the thought and the investigation it should have had. and since. in all frankness. the congress is caught flatfooted on the issue. when all other remedies have  worked. and we are placed in an emergency. it is often said. "the president should go to congress." the president has come to congress. and congress is  ready. so congress is going to do what it can to minimize "fuzzing" over the issue. so it will  be a landmark of historical precedent. if that is what the senate wants. if it wants an ad hoc solution of a trying situation. i think the amendments offered by the senator from wyoming . with the assistance of the senator from new hampshire . have a minimum impact. they will at least minimize the impact with respect to being a landmark decision. but they will  settle the need for dealing with national policy and legislation. what do we do when we run into a situation of this kind. there is remedy on our statute books. this is the weakness of the tafthartley law and the railway labor act. i shall support the amendments because they make the best of a bad situation. within the context of what the committee has projected. i reserve the right to offer to the senate a definitive remedy. so that the senate may have an opportunity to work its will on a definitive remedy of this issue.
the purpose of the amendment is to reconcile the policy of the united states with the existing needs -of this country. * it has been ed already that the standard of compensation for adult trainees under the manpower development and training act is today based upon unemployment compensation. we are   talking about youth and the special provisions made in the bill for -youth. i have  touched upon that subject in my amendment. the compensation for adult trainees is .today based upon unemployment compensation. that results. in the following situations: first. trainees do  getsufficient allowances to live on. hence. there is a rate of dropouts of about 23 percent among participating trainees. since the trainees do  get sufficient compensation to continue. matter how bad is the first job that comes along. they grab it because they have alternative. when they do that. all of the money which the united states has invested in their training is. in substance. wasted. and the national purpose is  attained. reason  1. therefore. is that the dropouts total in excess of onefifth of those enrolling in the program. that is the testimony before the committee. that is directly attributable to the fact that the training allowances are inadequate. they are inadequate because they are based on unemployment compensation. i shall discuss those figures later. . the standard which i propose is 50 percent of the average manufacturing .wage in the particular state or in the united states. whichever is the lower. that would mean if my amendment should prevail. that in 19 of the 50 states the allowance would be 50 percent of the national average. because in those states the state average manufacturing wage is higher. in the other 31 states the training allowance would amount to 50 percent of the state average manufacturing wage. on the whole. the amendment would result in increasing present allowances by an amount in the area of 25 to 30 percent. it would result in an additional cost to the federal government of something in the area of $20 million. or perhaps a little less. in view of the fact that my calculation at the figure of onehalf of the average state manufac.turing wage came to about $23 million. .and i have  put on a ceiling affecting 19 states. which would rather materially reduce that aggregate amount. point  1 is that there is a very high rate of dropouts. for financial reasons. which makes the program selfdefeating. because those who are being trained lose the benefit of their training because they can participate for the time necessary to complete the training. the second point is that the internal operations of our government are completely inconsistent in this important area. there are three programs under .which there are allowances to trainees. this is one program. the area redevelopment act is aher. the trade expansion act of 1962 is the third. under each of those programs there are trainee allowances. under the trade expansion act of 1962 the training allowance is based upon the standard which i propose. that is. the average manufac.turing wage in the state. under the area redevelopment act the standard is based on unemployment compensation. .under the manpower development and training act. which the senate is considering today. the standard again is based on unemployment compensation. an individual trainee trained under one of these acts. rather than under an.other. would receive a different standard of compensation from that provided .under the trade expansion act of 1962. so the second reason for acting in the way which i propose is the fact that the programs inherently and internally are inconsistent. the third reason is the nature of the program itself. we are trying to change the status of a man who will be displaced by automation or otherwise disadvantaged because he lacks training by giving him training to improve his capabilities.
we seek to raise such a man to a level of capability as to permit him to fulfill his role in the united states in the national interest. the program works in two ways. an individual will perform his ecoic role by producing to his maximum potential. if he is retrained. he will also rehabilitate himself as a working unit in terms of himself and his family. in order to do this. we do  wish to stamp a man as being unemployed. he is  unemployed. he is working for the benefit of the nation as well as for the benefit of himself. in giving himself. because of national concern. a new opportunity in life and a new opportunity to contribute to the nation. he should  have an unemployment psychology while he is so engaged. yet. when we fix a standard of compensation for him which is based upon unemployment compensation we say exactly that. we say. "you are still unemployed. this is a kind of an extension of the unemployment situation. for you are still an unemployed man. you are  a man employed in training." that is the concept which is important to understand for our country and for the purpose of making this whole effort and this whole program meaningful. as it should be. the fourth and final argument is that the standard which is  set results in completely unrealistic allowances for trainees. for example. those allowances are as low as $22.72 in arkansas. $25.30 in alabama. $24.99 in south carolina. $23.05 in maine. and $23.50 in mississippi. i am speaking of the weekly rates. even in the important industrial states. the figure is $32.32 in pennsylvania and $37.69 in new york. when we realize what the allowances for adult trainees. as contained in the law. amount to we realize it is  possible for such persons to live on these allowances. . i ask unanimous consent that a table of the actual weekly allowances which are being paid under the manpower development and training act. based upon the third quarter of the fiscal year 1963. may be printed in the record as a part of my remarks. along with a comparison with the proposed allowances based on 50 percent of the average manufacturing wage. the ceiling i have proposed in my amendment.
when we examine those figures we see that in absolute terms it is for all practical purposes impossible for the head of the household to make a living or even to get along on a minimum standard on the basis of the compensation which he would get under the act. for all those reasons. . i think it is essential that we face realistically the results of what we are trying to do in the interests of the nation. . in my opinion. we are cheating. by dealing with the situation of retraining as if it were unemployment. it is  fair to the nation. and it is  fair to the people concerned to do so. i wish to refer to the testimony of seymour l. wolfbein. director of the office of manpower. automation. and training of the u.s. department of labor. to the testimony of walter reuther. head of the industrial division. aflcio. as well as of the united automobile workers. and to the testimony of andrew j. biemiller. director of the department of legislation. aflcio--before the subcommittee on employment and manpower of the committee on labor and public welfarebearing out the concept which i am putting before the senate in the amendment. these witnesses. particularly messrs. reuther and biemiller. recommended twothirds of the wage rate for the job for which the worker is being trained rather than onehalf of the average manufacturing wage. as i have laid it beamount of increase +$15 +13 +17 +14 +16 +6 +24 +20 +8 +14 +20 +15 +22 +6 +11 +14 +9 +11 +11 +15 +18 +16 +14 +8 +18 +14 +18 +16 +9 +11 +27 +10 +4 fore the senate. but the principle which is involved is the same. it is the principle that we should try to attain a standard of employment rather than unemployment. in the compensation which we pay trainees. thereby really giving the trainee the feeling that he is entitled to havethat he is engaged in a constructive effort. in an affirmative effort. rather than merely being unemployed and receiving unemployment compensation. which is all the present law gives him.
my remarks will be brief. i assure the senator. i was very glad to hear the senators statement about the initiative shown by the state of new york in establishing its state atomic research and development authority. new york has been put to a very serious disadvantage. and serious pockets of unemployment exist in new yorkparticularly. for example. at buffalo and at some points on long islandand. to be precise. for the reason .that new york has lost some of this business to california. there has been honest competition. and we are trying to win backin the hard waythe establishments we have lost. we are attempting to do that by making facilities available. . the federal government is always urging the states to establish new facilities. and new york is doing so. in the present situation. the state of new york feels that it has the right to go ahead because of the evidence establishing the need for the new york pulse reactor about which very ample assurances have been given. so i am gratified by the statements made by the senate armed services committee. my colleague. the senator from new york . and i only express to the committee what we k it will do. which will be to see. in its own way. that if there is an intention to require the state to change its position. based upon a set of facts and requirements which have been presented to the state. although without any guarantees. at least the committee will do its utmost to review such a situation with great care.
i thank the senator. i will submit a specific and detailed proposal to the state department within the next few days. in conclusion. let me say that i am very well aware of the concern of american business with respect to oversea private investment when we face a situation such as took place in cuba and when we face other instances of unjust appropriation without compensation. at present there is grave concern about a number of oil contracts. for example. in argentina. whatever may be the justice. pro or con. involved there. so far as we k. those contracts were honestly negotiated and developed important resources in argentina. the only demerit which can be placed upon their doorstep is that they were very successful. the american interests discovered great quantities of oil in argentina. happenings of this kind are discouraging to american investors. this situation. as has been mentioned by the chairman of the foreign relations committee. should be stated on the floor of the senate. at the same time. there is involved a twofold purpose. one of the purposes is that of aiding mal opportunities. there have been great. legitimate enterprises. and profits have been built upon foreign businesses. a number of companies in the united states today. for example. are deriving more of their net income from business overseas than they are from business in the united states. this is very worthy. and it is something that this country as a world leader should do. so far as risks are concerned. actuarial risks can be ascertained by american business. when money is lost in certain countries. gains that outweigh such losses must be taken int6 consideration. so it is a question of whether the losses sustained in cuba or elsewhere are outweighed by profits or desirable activities engaged in in other parts of the world. on the whole. i believe the balance is in favor of private investment and exportimport business. it remains an important source of business enterprise and profit. but it is our failing. and what american business complains about most is that our government. unlike the british government. which is given always as a striking example. does  "go to bat" for its investors or its business people even when they are right. the theory in the state department is that american business is wrong. that it has something it should  have. that it has done something unseemly. something which is  lawful. if there is one thing that discourages business. it is that attitude on the part of our government. we lawyers have a saying that it is  what the facts are. it is what the judge thinks they are. that counts. the fact that the state department may protest from today until doomsday does  have much help for american business. it must have a stronger counsel or advocate when a country expropriates business property or imposes other restrictions. the government has the right to assume that people of character. businesses with millions of investors in the united states and hundreds of thousands of employees are still entitled to the primary assumption that they are doing business in an honest way. until it is proved to be improper or dishonest or wrong. we are touching this aftern upon what may be the most important point in the bill. i hope the state department will give this advice to all its echelons. even extending it to those who are just out of college and who have never had to make a payroll. they should take pride in american enterprise. which has been a great. dynamic force in the united states. they should feel that they can give to private enterprise. as we do to all others in the united states who are trying to do a job and who are patrioticand it is patriotic and highly desirable to make useful investments all over the worldthe assumption that it is living up to its responsibilities. the department should assume. as it does with respect to all others. that they are doing business on a proper basis. that they have  made an improper contract or have  overreached in making a contract. and that. on the record. they are right until proved wrong. if they are wrong. the situation may be corrected. but if they are right. stand up and give them . support. which may do more for morale than authority in a law or some restrictions which may be placed on the giving of aid. or the hickenlooper amendment. or some other restriction. so i hope very much that this lesson. in this remarkable area in which to discuss it. may sink in to our authorities. we are proud. we americans. that every citizen has the right to be considered honest until proven guilty. and the overwhelming number of businessmen are honest. there are 17 million stockholders in this country. and there are 87 million insurance holders and bank depositors. they are investors. there are over 75- million individuals in our labor force. that is american business today. i hope very much that the state department will pay serious attention to the concept which has been uttered here today in this respect.  and in deference to the request of the senator from oregon . i hope there will be egh senators present to grant the yeas and nays on this amendment. the chairman of the committee is willing to take the amendment. but the senator from oregon has asked for a rollcall. so i ask for the yeas and nays.
i am grateful to my colleague. who is famed in the world of government and also in the world of business--a rather unique union of skills. i value his constructive contribution. i do have such legislation in mind. i am going to suggest to senators what must be done to give labor an alternative. i emphasize that this is  a question of beating . the congress. labor. and management. labor is right about automation. that it must  be asked to pay the cost. which is a national cost. we can help labor materially to play its traditional role of statesmanship and patriotism in our ecoy. in regard to automation. by the way we handle the situation and the responsible way we act. so i say to mr. meany. "more power to you. you are jacking us up. and you are telling us what we have to do. what you are proposing is unecoic and i am  for it. but you can be expected to remain quiet and you can be expected to do hing. it is we who have to give you the alternative."
. a privately organized group of volunteers. mostly americans. is helping 690 venezuelan families to help themselves raise their living standards and improve their material circumstances. calling itself accion. which stands for americans for community cooperation in other nations. this group has sent 35 fieldworkers into venezuela  only to spark selfhelp projects to improve housing. set up cooperative industries. install sanitary facilities and other community advantages but most importantly to organize counterpart accion groups among the venezuelans themselves. funds for accions operations are obtained largely through contributions by american and venezuelan business firms with some help also from alliance for progress funds. the entire enterprise is a tribute to u.s. private initiative outside of the government and it contains the potential of a tremendous movement by americans to help our latin american neighbors in a distinctly american way. it differs from the peace corps mainly in having voluntary assignments and personnel preferring a voluntary organizational framework. and in phasing the whole program for indiges personnel to take over. accions 1964 program is: first. continuation of work in 30 barrios initiated or continued in 1963. second. recruitment and selection of 50 th american and european workers through accions u.s. recruiting offices. third. tenday retraining course for fieldworkers and a 2month training course for the new workers. fourth. recruitment and selection of 100 venezuelan workers70 fulltime workers and 30 university students. fifth. initiation of projects in approximately 75 new barrios for an intensified campaign in the 5 areas mentioned above. sixth. work toward greater unification of agencies and services dealing in community problems in order to keep alive community responsibility on a longterm basis. in order to distinguish itself from other similar programs accion stresses the following characteristics: first. the fulltime trained community action worker from outside the barrio. second. living in the barrio in order to have continuous involvement in barrio life and problems and be able to best stimulate and guide barrio community action and assure followthrough. third. the role of the worker as a catalytic agent. stimulating selfhelp projects within the barrio. multiplying the effect of change by channeling outside aid into projects. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the report in the new york times of december 1. 1963. headlined "venezuela town hos kennedy." and the article by james daniel entitled "accion speaks louder than words." which appeared in readers digest. september 1962.
as the senator ks. there is a large amount of business of this character in our state and our city. new york is the headquarters of probably most of the major oil companies in the united states. they are always concerned about changes in definitions. in terms of the law. in the way in which foreign income is treated. depending upon its sources. and so forth. to some extent. those factors are affected in the bill. the companies operate under a very complicated set of tax laws. can the senator assure us that. other than with respect to strict rates of depletion. his amendment would  change either existing law or what is contained in the bill with respect to depletion income from mineral sources. and so forth.
. one respects the majority leader more than i do. i have said that many times. and i am sure he ks that. i rose today only to make clear what i think needs to be made clear even if that does involve a difference with the majority leader. what i thought needed to be made clear was that the struggle which we are helping to wage in south vietnam is understandable to the american people. and that they are determined to wage it. and that they will  stop waging it until they see a muoh better solution than de gaulles idea that he will "take care of it". and just "leave it to him." after all. he "took cere of it" at dien bien phu. too.
the hearings on the presidents civil rights program sent up in 1963 bear directly in every germane way upon the provisions which are  incorporated in the bill. the hearings held before the senate judiciary committee in july. august. and september of 1963 are entitled. "civil rights. the presidents program. 1963." the record is 483 pages long. the next hearings. on fair employment practices legislation. were held before the committee on labor and public welfare. of which i have the ho to be a member. that record is 578 pages long. the hearings were held in july and august of last year. the next one is entitled. "civil rights. public accommodations." hearings held throughout the month of julyalmost dailyof 1963. by the senate committee on commerce. that record is 1.524 pages long. incidentally. two of the bills were reported to the senate. the bill on equal opportunity in employment. and the bill on public accommodations. had already been reported by the senate committees before the house bill came over. they are  on the calendar and have  been acted upon.
i am unable to divine at the moment additional areas in which that might be necessary or desirable. a while ago i introduced a list of many statutes in which that authority is established  in a representative capacity. perhaps the most direct analogy is the fair labor standards act. under which. because the individuals concerned may also be poor. weak. and powerless. the government will sue to recover wages which are  paid to them. that is perhaps the most directly analogous statute. along with the part iii in voting cases which was enacted in the 1957 civil rights act. i realize that a senator with the deep concern for the spread of governmental bureaucracy and power. on the basis of which the senator from ohio has built his lifes history and great reputation in the country and in the senate. would have such apprehension. but at the same time. i point out that the senator has great confidence in himself as a pretty toughminded individual. when precedents are discussed. let us remember that there are precedents which we make. and which we can unmake. if it seems to us that the ends of justice and the ends of order. tranquillity. and the constitution require certain legislation. we may enact it without being inhibited by the fear that tomorrow it may be extended in a direction of which we would disapprove. if we disapprove. we will turn it down. first. there are many precedents. second. e of them are immutable precedents. the precedents do  necessarily have to be followed at any time anyone raises the issue in a different context.
. i heard the prophetic words of the senator from oregon last august. i joined him then. he and i sat next to each other in the cabinet room in the white house and anticipated precisely what has occurred. i have great ho in joining him . i gather that implicit in the plea of the senator from oregon is that the date or moment of the strike which is imminent should be deferred. i believe that the next time there is legislation it may very well be seizure legislation. because we have learned  that we can legislate halfway. when we get into it. we must get into it the whole way. i could  agree more with the senator that it could be the first inauguration of a procedure of turning the whole collective bargaining process over to the government. which certainly would  satisfy labor. i join the senator from oregon. as a member of the committee. in the urgent plea he has made so eloquently. the first thing to do is call off the day or moment of the strike which threatens. when the strike is called. the fat will be in the fire.
. the central labor council of new york city held a meeting on april 8. 1964. at the manhattan center in new york city. i was to be a speaker at that meeting. but unfortunately the business of the senate prevented my being there. at that meeting. attended by 3.000 delegates. a resolution was adopted. which i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point in my remarks.
i join other senators in hailing the settlement of the threatened railroad strike. i am sure i will be forgiven if i do  heap paeans of praise at the feet of president johnson. although i believe it is a fine result which has come about. as a member of the committee on labor and public welfare. i feel it is a very important development. showing that we must  lose faith in collective bargaining. in the final analysis. the two opposing parties in the dispute had to do the job. it is a great tribute to the statesmanship both of american labor and of american business. therefore. we should  direct our thoughts to proposed legislation. on how to deal with the problems of automation. in which the government can really helpand i k the senator from oklahoma is interested in this. as i amby using procedures to bring about a standstill to protect the nations interests. so that the nation can continue to operate while giving labor and management an opportunity to settle things themselves without national paralysis. that seems to me to be the lesson of this particular event.
is the senator aware of the fact that exactly the same arguments that he is making were made in new york. i shall  go into the details of the bill. because i am sure the senator is well aware of them. as i am. i do  believe it would compel anyone to hire any particular person. it would only prohibit certain individuals from refusing to hire anyone because of his color. however. laying that aside for the moment-
. cutbacks in defense spending in a number of areas of substantial labor surplus in the state of new york involve false ecoy. because what the government may save through such cutbacks. it will more than spend as a result of the additional- unemployment which will be created. if the administration wants to take credit for cuts in defense department spending. it must also accept full responsibility for the ecoic dislocation caused by cutback action. the value of defense contracts to such areas in new york declined $5.6 million in the first three quarters of fiscal year 1964 over the same period a year ago. the department of defense has a special responsibility toward labor surplus areas. since it often contributes to unemployment by shifts in procurement policy and by the closing of military installations. cutbacks in contract awards to labor surplus areas represent false ecoy. continued unemployment places a drag on the nations ecoy. and causes increased federal spending for unemployment compensation. retraining. and welfare. the whole question of how defense spending affects the nations ecoyand particularly the individual communities. workers. and industries directly involvedmust be increasingly the concern of congress. the joint ecoic committees subcommittee on defense procurement would be the most suitable forum for this type of thorough investigation. on may 13. i urged the senator from illiareas and contract awards major: buffalo: total ........................................... preferred uticarome: total p referred -----------------------------------------------------mi: amsterdam: total p referred -----------------------------------------------------auburn: i total preferred batavia: total preferred catskill: i total preferred cobleskill: i total preferred elmira: total preferred genevacanandalgua: total preferred glens fallshudson falls: total preferred gloversville: i total preferred jamestowndunkirk: 1 t otal ----------preferred medinaalbion: i total preferred newark: total ........................................... preferred newburghmildletownbeacon: a total preferred ogdensburg imassena imalone: total ------ .. .............. .. preferred -....----- ...-- .-.-------------- . .--- ..... .... see foote at end of table. s . chairman of both the committee and the subcommittee. to hold hearings on this matter at the earliest possible time. of the states two major surplus areas. buffalo suffered a $5.8 million decline in its share of prime defense contracts. while uticarome increased its share by $24 million. of new york states 20 mi areas of substantial labor surplus. 8 areas showed substantial declines while 12 showed relatively mi increases. the four areas showing major declines were plattsburgh. down $20.7 million. newburghmiddletownbeacon. down $2.2 million. amsterdam. down $1.1 million. and elmira. down $1 million. the four areas showing increases were genevacanandaigua. up $728.000. oneonta. up $231.000. catskill. up $214.000. and jamestowndunkirk. up $183.000. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record. as a part of my remarks. a table entitled "trends in prime defense contract awards of $10.000 or more in new york state areas of substantial labor surplus."
. by way of explanation. i have revised my amendment slightly by excluding from its provisions parts b and c of title i. which relate to workstudy programs and worktraining programs. i explained my reasons for that earlier in the day. the amendment is  confined to the community action programs and the migratory labor programs. the form in which the amendment is  offered would allow the senator from vermont . as i understand from the parliamentarian. to offer a substitute. which it is his desire and. i believe. very much his right to do. so that it can be voted on first. that action will pose very clearly for the senate the question whether the senate wishes to have an absolute prohibition upon the operation of the program in any state unless that state consents and works out a state plan. which is the substitute of the senator from vermont . or whether it wishes to take the middle ground of my amendment. which would provide that in cases in which a state wishes to take over the program. is willing to take it over. and is able to take it over. the administrator is obliged to turn it over to the state. but where the state is passive. the administrator could move into that state and inaugurate programs within the state. the provision of my amendment would  be as rigorous a requirement as would the amendment of the senator from vermont. yet it would go some of the distance. i believe that the senate should have a clear choice. and that is the reason i sought to accommodate the substitute which is proposed by the senator from vermont. if agreeable to the senator. i  ask unanimous consent. as was done before. that the senator from vermont may proceed to offer his substitute for my amendment without my losing the time which i have still remaining for the discussion of my amendment.
new york is  often thought of in terms of a bill of this kind. but. as the senator ks. new york is a major agricultural state. as a senator who represents the whole state. i try to keep very much in touch with agricultural matters. i feel that my state. which is a major dairy state. would be gratified by the degree to which the special milk program has received attention in the bill. i am especially gratified by the fact that the program of special milk availability to profit summer camps and child care institutions is provided for in a generous way in the bill. i had the ho of helping to expand the concept of the department as to the legal definitions which would encompass that kind of aid. it is most gratifying to see this work so successfully being carried through.
. i join with senator ribicoff in his request of the chairman. the ranking miity members. and other members of the appropriations committee who are handling the bill. for the reasons that the distinguished senator from connecticut has so well statedand upon which he is so authoritatively able to comment. as the former secretary of the department of health. education. and welfare. with due deference. i state that i was the author of the first day care center bill. i sponsored this bill for many years. until funds were included for day care centers in this appropriation bill. there is presently a general matching fund arrangement with the states. the states have to match the amount which the federal government allocates to general child welfare. services on a sliding scale varying from onethird to twothirds of federal expenditures. members of the appropriations committee apparently thought a case could be made out  only for state matching funds for federal expenditures spe.cifically on day care services. but also for a specific 5050 formula for matching funds. i believe that the plea of the distinguished senator from connecticut is most worthy. i hope that it is met. i believe this solution is proper. the states should have time to express themselves on this matter. and the day care people themselveswho are so devoted and have poured so much of their effort. time. and energy into the program for yearsshould also have an opportunity to express themselves on the matching fund provision. so that we may see whether a 5050 matching arrangement is practical. and whether the views of the members of the appropriations committee can be complied with. i also emphasize to the senator from west virginia that the testimony clearly shows that the problem is growing receding9.3 million american women are  working mothers. this represents a great addition to the national wealth. the day care center movementand i believe senator ribicoff would be as expert a witness on that matter as we could findis responsible for the opportunity which mothers  have to maintain themselves and thus  be forced to go on welfare. that is the alternative. they either get a job. or the whole family is on welfare. this is  a case of a moneyspending amendment. it is a moneysaving amendment. i hope very much that most serious consideration will be given to senator ribicoffs views. any of us could. of course. move to strike this proviso. we could move to restore the figure to $6 million. but i say to my friend. the senator from west virginia . that i believe it is. at this time. inappropriate to do so in a case such as this until we have discussed the matter. this is the kind of situation that we ought to talk out in the family.
. this amendment carries out the understanding that was arrived at before with respect to the day care center problem. i ice that the senator from oregon is listening intently. the senator was  in the chamber at the time.
a while ago we found that the appropriations committee had made a provision in the appropriation bill which would. for practical purposes. require a 5050 federalstate contribution of funds for child day care centers. this matching fund provision. added by the committee. changed the existing situation under which states appropriated funds by contributing on a sliding scale from onethird to twothirds of all child expenditures for welfare services. including that of daycare centers. there was apparently some general sympathy during floor discussion with the idea of 5050 matching funds but it was considered to be a little impractical to require implementation of the matching fund program to begin immediately because many state legislatures would  meet for months. and therefore could  appropriate their share. therefore. by agreement with the senator from west virginia and by agreement with the senator from new hampshire-
. i wish to express my support for the conference report. with special reference to amendments 49. 50. 51. and 52. relating to the daycareservice provisions. i am disappointed that the amount for daycare services was  increased to the house figure. but i am gratified that the matching fund requirement is being deferred until january 1. 1966. i ask unanimous consent that i may submit a portion of the testimony at the senate hearings. emphasizing the importance of the daycare provisions of the bill. i wish to thank my friend the senator from west virginia . the chairman of the subcommittee. for the great kindness and consideration which he gave us in respect to this problem.
that brings me to the next question. there are a number of states whose people have incomes which rate very well compared with the national average. among those states are pennsylvania and ohio. the average income in ohio is higher than the national average. even georgia. tennessee. and th carolina are  unprosperous states. maryland is a prosperous state. will the senator tell us whether. in the administration of the bill. the percentages of contribution by the states as related to that of the federal government are fixed in the law or are subject to negotiation. so that those better able to pay may  necessarily receive the benefit of the full percentage of federal contribution specified in the bill.
i believe we are arguing about apples and bananas. the senator is discussing the question of a gold cover for the dollar in terms of the improvidence of governmental administration resulting in imbalanced budgets. i believe we can have balanced budgets. and  have a single penny of gold specifically tied to the currency. and have it extremely strong. the best answer is the germans. the french. and the italians. the italians made their currency stable without a legal gold reserve requirement. they achieved the stability finally by putting their governmental apparatus in good order. i could agree with the senator on the necessity of continuing to struggle against domestic inflation without changing the argument with respect to gold which relates to retaining a domestic and international credit structure according to the days requirements and the legitimate opportunities for expansion. considering the great limits. and availability of gold to us and to other countries. that is why i speak of worshiping the calf of gold. if the senator is arguing for paying a worker a dollar for his wage for a dollar produced. i could  disagree with the senator. i agree with him thoroughly. this is the very basis for a sound currency.  the gold that is buried at fort k or in new york.
. i send to the desk. on behalf of the senator from new jersey . the senator from colorado . and myself. an amendment to the pending primary and secondary school educationaid bill. s. 370. which bill is  pending before the education subcommittee of the committee on labor and public welfare. of which i am a member. the measure would amend title i of the bill to increase the number of children receiving educational opportunity under the act by about 60 percent in the second and third years after enactment. under a matching fund formula. by directing aid to children from families with an annual income between $2.000 and $3.000. the amendment is designed to meet three principal objections to title i. these objections were pointed out by witnesses during the recent hearings before the education subcommittee. the objections are: first. the aid formula for the second and third years is open. leaving the determination of how funds are to be distributed up to the secretary of health. education. and welfare. rather than to the congress. second. there is matching provision. and. third. under the inadequate poverty "yardstick" of $2.000 annual family income. only about 11 percent of all schoolage children are reached. i send the amendment to the desk. ask that it be printed. and appropriately referred.
first. i agree with the senator from vermont . i am delighted that he was able to accomplish what he has accomplished in the assurances that he has received. at my request. an amendment was adopted by the committee which would enable the states to approve contracts for the small training programs and avoid a great deal of the expense and delay of obtaining federal approval of them. under regulations adopted by the secretaries of labor and of health. education. and welfare. the states could approve training programs. the cost of which would  exceed $75.000. if the secretaries delegated the authority. that arrangement seemed to be fine. and everyone agreed to it.  i find in the committee report that the description of this provision has been very considerably watered down to provide as follows: the recommendation for local approval of smaller training programs should  be construed as in any way indicating that the committee expects all or. necessarily. even a substantial proportion of such programs approvals to be delegated by the secretaries. it is one thing to give the secretaries the power and authority to make these delegations. it is aher thing to cut it down even further. weakening the local opportunity to act by restrictive language on the part of the committee itself. was this language designed to show that the committee did  favor that kind of delegation of authority. withstanding the amendment. or are we going to leave it to the secretaries to do it intelligently under rules and regulations they might make. with encouragement rather than discouragement. in view of the administrative detail and costly delay involved in approving every one of these programs.
. i present. for appropriate reference. a concurrent resolution of the legislature of the state of new york. seeking to increase the minimum wage to $1.50 per hour. i ask unanimous consent that the concurrent resolution be printed in the record.
s manpower report. transmitted to the congress last month. made the following findings: the rapidly growing number of older workers in the population also have difficult unemployment problems and consequent need for counseling and placement services. the number of people in the 45- to 64yearold age bracket increased by 5.4 million during the past decade. it is expected to grow aher 5.7 million by 1970. a high proportion of these people are in the labor force. although they often encounter serious difficulties in obtaining employment. despite the protection of seniority and other fringe benefits. once these workers lose their jobs their prospects of returning may be seriously limited. in its report filed last month. the senate special committee on aging concluded that: one important means of improving the ecoic position of americas senior citizens is to make it possible for those to work who can work and want to work. at present. onethird of the total income of older americans comes from their employment. this belies the stereotype of idleness. dependency. and unproductivity which is too often associated with these americans. the committee also ed that the executive order 11141. issued on february 12. 1964. declared a public policy against discrimination in employment because of age under federal contracts. except upon the basis of a bona fide employment qualification. retirement plan. or statutory requirement. what is clearly necessary is a full implementation of this federal policy throughout the national ecoy. the bill  being introduced would carry out that purpose and will. i hope. receive early attention by the labor and public welfare committee.
. i hope very much that the committee to which this proposed legislation may possibly be referred. the committee on labor and public welfare. will move promptly to deal with the subject. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record an excerpt from the report of the advisory commission on intergovernmental relations making the recommendations.
. i present. for appropriate reference. and ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record. a resolution adopted by the board of supervisors of sullivan county. monticello. n.y.. favoring the enactment of house bill 6991. to provide grants for public works and development facilities. other financial assistance. and the planning and coordination needed to alleviate conditions of substantial and persistent unemployment and underemployment in ecoically distressed areas and regions.
. there is one other phase of this matter to which i should like to direct the attention of the chairman. and that is the socalled antipirating provisions of the bill. reference to which is contained mainly in the committee report. as to what the committee expects of the secretary of commerce in the administration of the bill. i should like to read into the record. because i think it is critically important to have this expression as a part of the legislative record as we pass this measure. which i hope will be passed. the prohibition against relocation. which appears at pages 13 and 14 of the report. prohibriton agaxnst relocation the committee in discussing the general purpose of the act expressed its strong belief that value is gained by shifting existing work from one area to aher under this program. the grants and loans provided for in s. 1648 should be used to expand our job market. thus the secretary should make every effort to determine that assistance is  extended under this act so as to result in a transfer of work or a relocation of facilities. it has long been a recognized policy of the government to preclude the use of federal funds in any form for assisting the relocation of industries. or plants. or work from one locality to aher. or for financing subcontractors who relocate for the purpose of transferring jobs previously performed in aher area by other subcontractors or contractors. the secretarys task in administering this portion of the act will be difficult at best. the intention here is that ecoic development should  be used as a guise to obtain federal assistance in order to obtain a competitive advantage that provides general benefit to the nation. the public works and ecoic development act of 1965 is  intended to authorize the use of federal funds for grants. loans. guarantees. subsidies. purchases of indebtedness. or assistance of any kind for programs. projects. facilities. or purchases to be used by or for highly mobile. intensely competitive industries. such as the apparel or garment trades within the textile industry. in which substantial unemployment and abmal unused plant capacity exists. and in which labor turer is high and the prior possession of a specific skill or training is  typically a prerequisite for obtaining employment. the act is  intended to give a competitive advantage to one area over aher where it would lead to industrial dislocation. the committee makes it very clear that it does  expect that the bill will be used for the purpose of raiding business where it is . the report expressly refers to the apparel or garment trades within the textile industry. in which substantial unemployment and abmal unused plant capacity exist. and in which labor turer is high. and the prior possession of a specific skill or training is  typically a prerequisite for obtaining employment. as being precisely an industry in which the antipirating policy should be followed. i should like. if i may again engage the attention of the manager of the bill. to have from him a reaffirmation of this intention. particularly as this bill contains what i consider to be a very objectionable and unhappy provision. which i fought before. without success. providing for loans and guarantees to obtain machinery and equipment. as contained in line 25. page 10. and line 1. page 11. of the bill. unless it is coupled with a very strong policy declaration on our part that the bill shall  be used for pirating industry. withstanding the very eloquent statement contained in the committees report. it could certainly be used for that purpose. considering the latitude granted under the section of the bill providing for loans and guarantees for machinery and equipment.
. the senator from arkansas was under compulsion to accept my amendment. i made it very clear in a campaign which extended back for 6 months that i would seek to right this situation by senate action at the earliest possible moment. the senator from arkansas stated. and the record will show. that the matter had been discussed. he knew that there was considerable sentiment in his own committee with respect to the twojob operation. the situation had been discussed in the committee on labor and public welfare. i do  believe that the proposal was sprung on anyone suddenly. i believe that it is something that we have all been thinking about and concerned about. the situation is quite unusual. apparently hing could be done about the situation except to handle it in the manner in which it was handled yesterday. i am convinced that our action was right.
. the association of the bar of the city of new york has recently issued a report strongly supporting additional legislation in the migratory labor field. much of this proposed legislation is  pending before the committee on labor and public welfare. of which i am the ranking miity member. and i have cosponsored some of the pending bills. including one to extend to agricultural laborers the coverage of the fair labor standards act. i ask unanimous consent that the associations report be printed in the record.
 new powers to protect the public health and safety in national emergency strike situations. the powers would include appointment of a board of inquiry to make public recommendations for a settlement. a 30day freeze during which both parties would be required to bargain on the recommendations. and authority for government seizure of facilities in extremely grave situations. fifth. amend the fair labor standards act to increase the minimum wage from $1.25 to $1.50 per hour.
. the legislation i propose is along the lines suggested in a recent article by prof. murray m. rohman appearing in the labor law journal. i ask unanimous consent that the text of this bill and professor rohmans article be printed in the record at this point.
. i send to the desk. for reference to the appropriate committee. an amendment to s. 1986. the administration bill to amend the fair labor standards act. this amendment would raise the minimum wage under the act from $1.25 to $1.50 per hour. i have already introduced a bill. s. 1770. which would have the same effect. the administration concedes that the present minimum wage is inadequate. but offers hing in its labor message to congress along these lines. it seeks only to bring 4.500.000 more workers under the minimum wage and this i am for but it is  the whole answer. i feel that the present minimum wage which. assuming fulltime work. produces annual wages of only $2.500---earnings well below the poverty levelmust be raised in accordance with cost of living and the needs of the times and to back up our national resolve to seek a decent living standard for all our citizens.
. this morning hearings on the proposed repeal of section 14(b) of the tafthartley law opened. the administrations chief spokesman. secretary wirtz. made it clear that the repeal was a very high priority subject with the administration and that it would use all of its resources to endeavor to get the repeal passed at the present session of the congress. it was clear to me from the testimony that there are some real questior concerning what would happen if we repealed section 14(b). to which action i am favorablequestions which relate to the greater authority of trade unions. let us  forget thatat least in the 19 states which are concerned and have socalled righttowork laws--repeal would add materially to the authority and power of trade unions. i have raised a number of problems in that regard. first. i raised the question of "strike. lockout" clauses in labor agreements  being enforcible in the federal courts. resulting in enforcement being left to the conflicting interpretations of the state courts of the 50 states. withstanding the fact that such clauses are voluntarily bargained out between workers and their employers under what is supposed to be a uniform national labor law. the secretary of labor put the whole case for the repeal of section 14(b) on the grounds that we should leave to the workers and the employers the right to bargain to decide what should be in their labor agreementincluding the right to decide whether or  there should be a union shopand that there should  be variation from state to state. if we are going to give the parties the right to bargain for a uniformly enforcible union shop. then we ought also to consider changing the law to give them the right. which they  also lack. to bargain for uniformly enforcible "strike. lockout" clauses.
second. there was real recognition that the equal employment opportunity law. which we have incorporated as title vii of the civil rights act of 1964. is very inadequate. it will cover only 40 percent of the working force. even when it takes full effect some 4 years hence. that leaves out 60 percent. with the main problem in apprenticeship. where the figures show that only 2 percent of apprentices are negroes. again. if we are to give unions more authority and more power. that authority and power should be exercised fairly. and there is excuse for discrimination against negroes in respect of employment opportunities or apprenticeship. finally it was made very clear that repeal of section 14(b) would give a recognized union complete authority over those who wish to join and those who do  wish to join. but that recognition of a union as a collective bargaining representative is often  the result of a majority vote cast by a secret ballot. recognition may also be required after a socalled card check. if more than a majority of the employees have signed cards. the union must be recognized even though ballot election was ever held. when a union shop deauthorization is sought. on the other hand. an election must be held. and deauthorization is  ordered unless an absolute majority of all eligible voters just a majority of those who votecast ballots for deauthorization. so here. again. something may need to be reformed in connection with expanded union power. . i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record an editorial entitled "javits and the tafthartley act." published in the washington post of sunday. june 20.
. the editorial approves the view that congress must do something about several other grave issues if additions to union authority are to be made. my mind is still open as to whether to join or seek to join to the repealer of section 14(b) these other essential protections for the worker and the public interest with respect to union authority. my decision might very well go either way. but i feel that if we do  join these other requirements. safeguards. and assurances to workers and to the people. as additions to the expanded union authority. which will be the result if we repeal section 14(b). we ought at least to have real assurances that they will have the consideration of and action by congress. so that union power may be exercised with union responsibility. i say this as one of the most faithful adherents in congress to the idea of free collective bargaining. since i began my public career. i have supported unions and collective bargaining. and have had an awareness of the great things which unions have done for working people and for the public interest. but the public interest requires that we be evenhanded. and when we add. as we shall be adding by repeal of 14(b). to the authority and power of the labor movement. we should also protect the interest of the workers and the public so that that added power and authority will be exercised equitably and democratically.
i k that the establishments are against it. but the workers are for it. and the reason is that in the positions for which they are hired there is always taken into account the fact that they will receive tips. so although the employer may  actually handle the money. he is benefited by the fact that an employee receives tips. and thus he pays the employee that much less. mally. an employee is paid whatever is the state minimum wage. probably we shall cover that in the federal minimum wage . as the administration requests. but up to . it has been the state minimum wage. adult who is a waiter. waitress. or counter employee. will work for that wage. and the employer and the employees k that the employees will be tipped. the privilege of receiving tips is a part of the condition of being able to work in that kind of establishment.
in the city of new york. hundreds of restaurant employees have come to me to discuss this subject. they are adult and understanding americans. they k that they will expose their earnings when they do anything about social security. and that they will then be liable for income tax. but they want to do that. they are perfectly willing to regularize their whole situation. so the majority of them are persuaded that they will be better off by amending their own situation and in that way facing it realistically. i shall bring it up. i was merely interested in king what was the rationale. i think i have it .
unemployment compensation is paid entirely by the employer and is paid upon that basis and computed accordingly. two things are happeningand i am sure the senator from louisiana will correct me if i am in error: one is that where tips are accounted for to the employer as salaryand there are some cases in which a person who is working is supposed to account to the employer for tips as salarythe whole situation remains as if the tips were salary. aher situation. which is being dealt with in a kind of letter agreement between the commissioner and employers. involves an estimate by an employer as to what the tips will probably amount to.
. there is quite an interesting precedent for this action. i believe i mentioned it to the senator from louisiana. i started a similar campaign to extend the minimum wage to restaurant and hotel workers. and did it with the same technique. we called for a report. the report was rendered. the provision is  included in the bill before us. i believe that based upon that experience this is the solid way to proceed. i hope very much that the senator from louisiana will agree to accept the amendment.
there has already been some debate upon this question. i have little doubt that senators k how they feel about it. when we find a provision in the bill which is so grossly inequitable. which is opposed by the government departments concerned. which is completely out of relationship to the relationship between government and employees in respect of social security taxation. to let this complete hybrid be enacted without trying to do our duty. without trying to change it. would be a great mistake. every one of the adjectives i have cited applies to what the senate finance committee substituted for the house provision with respect to tips. let us first understand the issue. the bill as it came from the house requiredi emphasize the word "required." because it is mandatory on the employeethat income an employee receives from tips must be declared for the purpose of both social security and income taxes every month. these declarations would be made through the returns which the employer already files for social security taxes on the wages he pays the very same employee. an employee invariably receives a stated wage on which he and the employer pay social security tax and added to that. subject to the house provision. is a declaration so far as tip income is concerned. there is new return which the employer has to file. he is filing one anyhow. for the particular employee. the bill also contains provisions to protect the employer against having to pay out money for taxes on tip income  reported to him. and there are other matters with relation to income tax withholding which are  germane to the basic issue. the basic issue is that as the bill came from the house. tip income is considered a part of the wage of the employee who is receiving the tips and those tips are taxed as wages. the mechanics of how he reports them. and so forth. are  material to this debate. as the senate committee has amended the bill. tip income must be declared as selfemployed income rather than as a part of the wages. the big difference. insofar as the employee is concerned. is that in the case of the house provision the employer pays his share of the social security tax and the employee pays his share. in the senate provision. the employee pays the entire amount. that is the only difference. thus. under the finance committee version. the employee pays 1/z times in social security taxes what he would pay under the house provision. this is the essence of the problem. as a practical matter. as the bill is  written. the employee. under the house provision. would pay 3.65 percent of his tips as a social security tax. under the senate provision. he would pay 5.4 percent of his tips as his tax. and that goes upin 1973to 4.8 percent under the house version. and 7 percent under the senate version. consequently. the employee is more heavily taxed. in order to arrive at their provision. the finance committee adopted the most artificial basis possible. namely. to make tip income selfemployment income. why do i say that it is the most inconsistent basis possible. in the first place. let us understand that what my colleague and i seek to do is to try to retain the house provision and stop the senate committees attempt to strike it out and substitute the selfemployment idea.  only do we .ay that the senate substitute is a complete hybrid and has relation whatever to the relations of employer and employee with regard to the tips of employees. but it is also opposed by the treasury department. the department of hew. and the aflcio. in short. the senate committee amendment flies in the face of everything the government departments themselves believe should be done about the situation. . i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record that part of a letter signed by stanley s. surrey. assistant secretary of the treasury. dated may 17. 1965. which relates to this amendment and which says. in part: the treasury department strongly supports this measurenamely. the house provision.
. this makes crystal clear what the treasury department has stoutly maintained. namely. that tip income is wage income and is allowed for as wage income when wages in these industries are fixed. it seems to me that is a conclusive reason for retaining the house language. if any other were needed. i point out that there are some 13 states which take into consideration the tips that employees receive when determining the minimum wage. so that an employer is deemed to be paying an employee the minimum wage when that employee receives both the amount the employer pays him and tips. this is a critically important fact. because this is the practice.  the theory.
. we may hear many things about business practices when it comes to the federal minimum wage lawwhich law is  up for consideration before my committee with regard to these very employees. we will see what the restaurateurs say about that one when they have to pay the federal minimum wage. withstanding that which the tipped employee gets in wages right . as an average. is 81 cents--and  the $1.25 or the $1.50 that would have to be paid by the employer under a minimum wage law. we k very well that we are  going to enforce any such doctrine in respect of other law. all we are doing is carving out a situation because the cxi- 1004 restaurateurs say this is more convenient to them. and we are making it unique and aalous. it does  make any difference. i do  care whether we win or lose on the amendmentit makes sense. if it is unpopular for such a tax to be paid. let us remember it is unpopular to pay an income tax. it is unpopular to have to apply for a license. on that basis we would have an anarchical society. the owner of a barbershop must file reports for every barber under his control with respect to social security. he would have to do more with respect to tips. because he already has to file reports. for purposes of social security. on whatever wages he pays the barber. these are very strange. aalous doctrines. and all we would have done in the senate. if we should let the amendment stand. would be to lend ourselves to a scheme for the convenience of a group of people60.000 is the figure which has been given us hereas against 1 million employees. those latter people should be considered when we are considering the matter of convenience. it is inconsistent with what is provided in the common law and in the statutes. and what is the practice as between employers and tipped employees in other respects. if the senate wants to do that . one can stop it. except the house of representatives in conference. but it makes sense.
. i wish to take these 2 minutes to state to the senateif i may have the attention of the senatorsthat i believe we can complete this debate and be ready to vote within a very few minutes. first. let me emphasize that the vote on the amendment. if one wishes to favor our positionwhich is the position of those who have spoken in favor of the house provisionwould be "nay." because we are seeking to defeat the committee substitute for the house provision. a "nay" vote would reinstate the house provision. whereas a "yea" vote in this case would represent going along with what the senate finance committee has reported. second. summarizing the argument. it is based upon two fundamental facts. first. the relationship of employer and employee exists between the employer and those who receive tips. and that for purposes of social security. income tax. and workmens compensation. they shall be treated as employees. they should  be segregated as independent contractors for the particular purpose of social security alone. second. the 1 million employees concerned should be given the opportunity. which the house provision would give them. to regularize their situation by paying their part of the social security tax. and by paying their income taxes in a way which would be based upon a declaration of what they receive as tips.
the 81 cents an hour which tipped employees receive as wages is contrasted with $1.34 an hour for employees in the same establishment who are  tipped and. therefore. the employer should  have it both ways. he should  be able to profit from the fact that his employees are receiving tips by paying them a lesser wage. he should  be able to profit additionallyas the senate provision would allow him to doby calling tips selfemployment income when it comes to paying social security taxes. finally. in terms of the united states. it is high time we were in balance in treating these employees with equal justice. we are supported in that respect by the treasury department and by the department of health. education. and welfare. and by the organized trade unions. that view is opposed by the senate committee. the plan proposed to us by the house is the right and honest plan. and is proper for employees and proper for employers. although i k employers do  agree. it is a plan fair to the treasury. we should close this issue  by adopting the house plan. i hope the senate will vote " on the committee amendment. thereby reinstating the house provision.
. i submit for appropriate reference. and ask that it be received and appropriately referred. a concurrent resolution designed to trigger a study by the labor and public welfare committee into the potentialities of more widespread profitsharing. including stockownership. by employees. the study would be ordered completed by january 31. 1967. and the committee would be authorized to spend $50.000 for staff and consultants. the purpose of the resolution. which is similar to one that i submitted in the last congress. is to bring up to date the only full examination of this important area. which was made in 1939 by a subcommittee of the committee on finance. chaired by the late senator arthur h. vandenberg. in its report. that subcommittee concluded that profitsharing is "essential to the ultimate maintenance of the capitalistic system." the 26 years since then have wrought revolutionary social and ecoic changes in american life. the considerable experience gained by business and labor in an estimated 100.000 existing profitsharing plans must be evaluated. the available incentive techniques must be reappraised. only since the 1939 survey. for example. has the use of incentive tax exemptions and rewards to stimulate specific forms of ecoic activity become widely accepted. its most recent use was in the 1962 incentive credit for investment in plant and machinery. the use of such tax incentives to encourage profit sharing deserves thorough reconsideration. as pointed out by the miity in the 1964 annual report of the joint ecoic committee. existing law on restricted stock options has generally  furthered stockholding among wage workers. the pressure of advancing automation and techogical change requires a careful analysis of profit sharing. the potentialities of profit sharing for ecoic advanceby giving labor a stake in increased production and industrial peace in lieu of the constant escalation of wages and the constant shortening of the hours of workmake the study i propose of the highest importance.
. i call attention to a communication from the industrial commission of the state of new york and a memorial resolution of the new york state legislature memorializing congress to increaes the federal minimum wage to $1.50 an hour. i ask unanimous consent that they be printed in the record.
i call attention to the item "grants for maternal and child welfare." which appears on page 70 of the report. the last paragraph under that item reads as follows: last year the congress added a legislative provision requiring dollarfordollar matching by the states for day care services beginning january 1. 1966. the senate amended h.r. 6675. the social security amendments of 1965. deleting the section 527 on day care services. which amendment was agreed to in conference. thus vitiating the matching provision contained in the appropriation act for fiscal year 1965. the question still remains unanswered as to what provision is made for daycare service in the appropriation bill. either in this part of the bill or in any other part of it.
it is  a modification. it differs from the printed amendment only by inserting page. line. and section numbers. there is other modification in the amendment. the amendment deals with the question of veto by govers of community action programs in their states. the range of choice before the senate on this issue will be complete. because i understand it to be the intention of my colleague. the senator from arizona . to offer as a substitute for my amendment the amendment which he offered in committee. i want to point out the complete range of choices which will be offered for senators to make. the first is to eliminate the govers veto altogether in relation to community action programs. the senator from texas -who can correct me if i am in errorproposed an amendment to remove the veto by govers in community action programs. but it retained the govers veto for vista and the job corps. it was adopted by a close vote of 8 to 7 in committee and incorporated in the bill. that is what the bill  before us provides. my amendment proposes to insert into the bill a provision which allows a veto of community action programs by the gover. but the gover. having vetoed. may be overruled by the director of the office of ecoic opportunity after public hearing. that is the second choice available to the senate. which is incorporated in my amendment. the third choice available to the senate is to restore the original provisions of the act. which provides a govers veto of community action programs. by striking out the provision in the bill relating to that subject. that choice will be proposed in an amendment by the senator from arizona . so the senate will have before it an opportunity to vote to retain the system  in the law. the first vote will be on this question. on the second vote. senators will have a choice to adopt what i recommend. namely. allowing the gover to veto. but permitting him to be overruled by the director. after a public hearing. the third choice. which is presented if both amendments are rejected. is to vote to end the veto on communty action programs altogether. that provision has been reported by a onevote margin by the committee on labor and public welfare. let me point out what the house did. this is very important. the house adopted my plan of allowing the gover to veto. but giving the director power to overrule the veto. but it did  provide for a public hearing before the director could do so. the only change i have made in the house provisio compromise. if we may call it thatis to include provision for a public hearing. other than that. there is change. so. for all practical purposes. it can be said that i am offering the senate an opportunity to vote on the house provision. the senator from texas is offering the senate what is in the bill before the senate. striking out the veto provision altogether in community action programs. and the senator from arizona will offer the senate the choice of restoring to the bill what is  in the law. to say a word on the merits. it seems to me that there is something of a dilemma in federalstate relations that makes such programs as this vulnerable. it is fair to say to senators of judgment on both sides of the aisle that. because of the possibility of political influence. corruption. money waste. and inept administration. probably the range of peril to this program is as great as or greater than any domestic program which we have. therefore. it seems to me the lines between the state and federal governments should in this area be respected. a strong argument has been made on the question of the authority of the office of ecoic opportunity as against an absolute govers veto. the argument has  been based upon the proposition that the govers veto power has actually been overused. in fact. the veto power has  been overused. vetoes occurred only in texas. alabama. florida. and montana in the first year of the program. i would  consider that an overuse. considering the number of projects started. which the director testified was approximately 5.000. what the administration objects to most is that in some places the threat of the govers veto is constantly raised. that it is used as a basis for demanding that a particular program be shaped in a certain way. so that the gover really shapes the program. rather than the director of oeo or the applicant agencies. so that the gover does  have to veto in order to control the program in his state. the essence of the argument is that permitting this to continue would depress the range. nature. and size of the community action programs which are established in a number of states. the gover does  have to use the veto. the mere existence of the power to use it is egh. that is what the administration argues. in an effort to resolve that dilemma and in an effort to deal with the incubus of a govers complete power to veto. taking into consideration state policies and attitudes which perhaps might be more conservative than otherwise. i have opposed the provision of an inflexible govers veto. i was regretful and rather rueful that last year. in the original antipoverty bill. the director did  adopt a proposal i made on that score. in my opinion. he unwisely rejected it. the result was that the bill as passed provided for an absolute veto. and the director could do hing about it until the act came back before the congress. the amendment i have proposed is a compromise between those who say. "do  worry about the govers. because oeo consults with them." and those who say the gover must have an absolute veto. under my amendment the gover can risk political damage by a veto. when a gover vetoes a program. the director can override the veto after a public hearing. which insures that the matter will be put in the public domain. i believe that would result in a salutory kind of action. i do  believe we ought to provide for an absolutely inflexible veto power by a gover.
. i call attention to the fact that the labor department. at my reqest. has just issued new regulations which. very considerably broaden the opportunity for onthejob training for employees. i believe these new regulations will open up many new opportunities for training. on august 10. 1965. the administrator of the labor departments wage and hour division issued revised regulations dealing with training programs under the fair labor standards act. the amended regulations. which were prompted by an inquiry from me on april 26. 1965. liberalize the conditions under which an employer may establish a training program for his employees without running afoul of the minimum wage and overtime provisions of the fair labor standards act. the regulations. which appear in title 29 of the code of federal regulations. define "hours worked" which must be paid at the minimum wage rate and counted for overtime purposes. basically. the requirements for a training program which an employer may conduct for his employees without counting the training time as hours worked age: first. that the program be conducted outside regular working hours. second. that attendance be voluntary. third. that the program  be directely related to the employees job. and. fourth. that the trainee perform productive work during training time. in my letter to the administrator. i pointed out that the requirement that the program  be directly related to an employees job had a tendency to deter employers from instituting bona fide programs for upgrading of employees. for example. if an employer institutes a program for mechanics helpers to train them to be fullfledged mechanics. the program might be related to the employees job because it would help the employee to be a better mechanics helper. i also pointed out to the administrator that an exception for this sort of program has always been included in the regulations under the walshhealey public contracts act. and there is reason why the same exception should  be made a part of the broader flsa regulations. the administrator agreed with me. and a new section 785.29 of the regulations under the flsa was issued last week which included the following: where a training course is instituted for the bona fide purpose of preparing for advancement through upgrading the employee to a higher skill. and is  intended to make the employee more efficient in his present job. the training is  considered directly related to the employees job even though the course incidentally improves his skill in doing his regular work. i would hope that the broader view reflected in these new regulations will provide added incentive for employers to institute additional training programs to help meet the everpresent challenge of automation. i would also hope that workers and labor leaders will read this mateial very carefully and counsel their employers in their own states as to how training opportunities for workers may  be broadened.
the senator. however. is  making generic exemptions for existing canadian securities. he is applying it to certain advertising income of newspaper publishers which they realize in canadian funds and is invested in canadian securities. do i understand correctly .
 urging him to send a special message to the congress calling for revision of the emergency labor dispute provisions of the tafthartley act along the lines i have just discussed. i earnestly hope he will act upon my suggestion. but we need  wait. for the need for legislation is clear. and the time for action is short. after all the legislation we have enacted this year to insure that our ecoy will continue to expand and to provide greater opportunities for all our people. surely we ought  to leave the federal government powerless to protect the very prosperity which we have all sought to build. i would hope. therefore. that the labor committees of both houses of the congress will schedule prompt hearings on this badly needed revision of our labor laws. i close with the following personal affirmation i have shown that on a thousand battlefields. i believe that i am a better friend of organized labor by giving the government the responsibility and the authority to keep the country operating rather than to give any group the power to immobilize the nation in its essential responsibilities. as in the war in vietnam. and in its ecoic responsibilities respecting the balance of payments. trade. and domestic employment. accordingly. i beg of the trade unions and members of congress. and citizens generally. to think about this situation very carefully. it comes at an odd time. when we are considering repeal of section 14(b) of the tafthartley act. i believe that the responsibility for the public interest beckons congress in the next 8 days. i hope that members of congress will  sit with their hands folded and again find themselves in the embarrassing position of  king what to do. and doing something wrong at the end of a trying crisis. as happened in the railroad strike.
i say with a smile that i had a similar experience with the president on the national advisory council on the arts. the very morning on which i asked for the prompt anncement of the appointment of the council the witness before us in the labor committee annced that the president that day. was going to appoint a commissioner to work with the administration. so i am  unfamiliar with the alacrity with which the president can act when he wants to.
. i feel that there is great concern that the senate may fail to consider muchneeded labor reform measures simultaneously with the detate over h.r. 77. the bill to repeal section 14(b) of the tafthartley act. this concern is heightened when the "reform" amendments offered are closely related to the enhanced authority to be given. by repeal of section 14(b). to unions that are recognized as collectivebargaining agents. the two amendments i am about to submit have been widely discussed as expressly falling within this category. that is. directly related to the enhanced authority unions will receive if section 14(b) is repealed. in my judgment. the possibility of a successful filibuster against repeal of the socalled righttowork section 14(b) is greatly enhanced by the failure of the administration to allow reform amendments to the repeal bill. in short. we ought to be dealing with section 14(b) as a part of our labor laws.  as a law unto itself. i point out that the administration is directly opposed to amendments to section 14(b) and that. by a solid party vote. such amendments were voted down in the committee on labor and public welfare. of which i am the ranking miity member. i say this is  in the interest of the united states i am for repeal of section 14(b). but i point out that there is hing sacrosanct about 14(b). i believe that at the same time 14(b) is repealed. there should be other amendments which would be consistent with the repealer. if there is a sound. sensible. and responsible way to cut through the controversy surrounding this measure. it is to broaden the base of the bill to include solutions to defects in the tafthartley law so closely related to repeal of section 14(b) as to demand simultaneous consideration so that we may all feel confident that we have passed a bill which is truly in the public interest. i say these things as one who feels that section 14(b) should be repealed to give us a truly national labor policy. to equalize the opportunity and competition among the states in industrial development. and to lift the restrictions on labor and management to bargain collectively regarding matters of importance to themincluding the union shop. coupled with repeal should be measures to provide added responsibility to complement the added authority granted to unions and employers under this measure. accordingly. i  am submitting two amendments today which are designed to insure that only majority unions exercise majority power. and that such power will be exercised responsibly.
 johnson in his labor message to congress. dealt at length with the fair labor standards act and unemployment compensation. and then devoted only a few words. at the end of his message. to repeal of 14(b). secretary wirtz delivered a truly moving plea to the senate migratory labor subcommittee to act favorably on the pending migratory labor bills. yet i regret i must reach the conclusion that other important labor bills were forced to take a back seat to the 14(b) repealer. i had hoped we could have passed all these measures. as it is. we may well end up with e. though i shall vote with those who favor repeal . if we do  get a result at this session. then i would certainly hope that next year the administration and the majority will take a more balanced view of the many needed labor measures urgently awaiting congressional action and as part of a balanced labor package we may accomplish a repeal of 14(b). which i have supported in the past and will continue to support in the future.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a concurrent resolution adopted by the legislative assembly of puerto rico with respect to bills proposing to amend the fair labor standards act. and i ask that the resolution be appropriately referred.
ial disability. extension of the antipoverty program. federal assistance to states in eliminating water pollution. and a program to add ecoically hard pressed countiesincluding 13 in new yorkin the appalachian region. this year. i was appointed to the united statespuerto rico commission on the status of puerto rico. which is undertaking a comprehensive study of all aspects of the governmental status of the island commonwealth. i feel that the future of the island must ultimately be determined by the desires of our puerto rican citizens and that these studies will help them make the best possible decision. i again gave my support to home rule legislation for the district of columbia. including the automatic federal payment formula which unfortunately has been deleted from the housepassed bill. while the record of the first session is certainly impressive the tendency of the administration to use its vast majorities in both houses to prohibit necessary amendments produced some incomplete legislation and the loss. for this session. of some essential bills. a striking example is that the administration insisted in holding up all labor legislation until section 14(b). the socalled "righttowork" section. of the tafthartley act was repealed and even prevented longoverdue labor reform amendments to the repeal bill. the result was that the vital bills on minimum wage and fair standards for migratory labor were  acted on and repeal of 14(b) was delayed due to the absence of the support that additional reform legislation would have attracted. the foregoing represents the highlights of the past year. i will  go into the details of the 1st session of the 89th congress:
in my view. it is only a voluntary agreement which can both end a strike and also resolve the underlying controversy. it is for this reason that i believe the process of recommendations by a factfinding board appointed by the president. with a standstill period during which these recommendations must be considered. is the best plan. the element of compulsion is  involved except to the extent that public opinioce advised of what constitutes a fair settlementis able to bring its weight to bear on both management and labor to see that a settlement is made. when this is coupled with the ultimate right of seizureinsuring that the ecoy can be paralyzedwe have a plan which gives us the maximum protection of the public interest with the minimum interference with the fundamental freedoms of the parties. under this proposal. the parties are left free to bargain as long as they deem it necessary to reach a freely bargained settlement. if receivership becomes necessary. both parties operate under a disability. for the union forfeits the right to strike. but the employer forfeits possession and operation of his facilities. the federal government has suggested what a fair settlement would be. but the parties are free under this procedureunlike compulsory arbitrationto reject the governments suggestion and bargain for something else. in short. this proposal produces the maximum protection of the public with the minimum of government decisionmaking. the proposal made here is in way inconsistent with the efforts of new yorks mayor lindsay.  the efforts of other city and state officials. to develop better procedures to protect the public interest in labor disputes involving public employees. the procedures i propose would become operative only in the event that local procedures fail and the public health or safety is imperiled. but it is clear beyond question that when new yorks mayor turned to washington for help in the recent transit strike. the administration had procedure it could invoke under the law. in my view. we simply can afford to continue to contemplate major labor disputes which can jeopardize or threaten to jeopardize the public health and safety. without adequate statutory tools to protect the public interest. i have urged the administration over and over again to support new legislation in this field. last fall. at the height of the steel labor crisis. i sent a telegram to the president urging the administration to call for the enactment of new legislation to protect the public interest in such labor disputes. but after the president succeeded in settling the steel crisis "at the 1foot line" by the sheer weight of his personal prestige. i received a reply from the secretary of labor which denied any need for any new emergency strike legislation. stating: the resulting settlement has obviated the necessity for immediate consideration by congress of legislative action as recommended in your telegram to the president. i was dismayed by that response. for to say that the need for legislation ends *when each labor crisis ends is to make adequate legislation unattainable. i was therefore delighted to learn of the administrations change of position. as reflected in the presidents state of the union message. and i look forward to having the opportunity to evaluate the administrations specific proposals. as well as those i have just recommended. in the light of committee hearings on these measures which should. and hopefully will. be held without delay. so that we may expeditiously exact legislation which will insure. once and for all. that the public will  again stand helpless in the face of a paralyzing labor controversy. . i make this statement in introducing the bill for the appropriate committee which deals with labor in congress. and i ask unanimous consent that the text of this bill be printed in the record.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to amend the public works and ecoic development act to extend for an additional year the eligibility of certain areas of our nation to receive assistance for public works and development projects deemed essential to accelerate their future growth. if this extension is  granted many areas of the nation which have been qualified for development aid under title i of the act for the past year will end up without having received any federal assistance.  through any negligence on the part of the local communities or their officials. but because of delays encountered in establishing procedures within the ecoic development agency in washington. as passed. the act of 1965 contained an amendment allowing that areas having a history of substantial unemployment during the preceding calendar year would be eligible for benefits under title i. this section allows federal assistance to be given to nearly 100 areas of the country including uticarome. batavia. oneonta. sidney. and watertown in new york state. which though  seriously depressed. are nevertheless in need of federal assistance in order to redevelop their areas. the act further provides that the department of labor conduct an annual review to determine if the areas covered continue to meet the substantial unemployment requirement for title i assistance. if the unemployment figures for the past year show that a certain area longer remains in the qualified category. that area will immediately lose its title i eligibility. it was determined soon after the act became law that applications for assistance would  be accepted until an overall ecoic development program in accordance with yettobedefined eda regulations was approved and on file. it seems. however. that the eda was burdened with the usual administrative delays which occur upon the establishment of a new agency. consequently. there was an understandable delay in the issuance of guidelines to be used in drawing up an overall ecoic development program. these guidelines were made available only recently. thus. many of the qualified title i areas must  tackle this .difficult problem of drawing up such a program.  as of february 3 the ecoic development administration reported that title i grants have yet been made. the time for the first annual review to determine eligibility is likely to take place sometime in june. and it appears that the processing of applications for aid for many title i locations will  yet be completed. thus. many areas all across the nation stand to lose this very valuable federal assistance if the labor department statistics show that they have made sufficient gains in their annual unemployment rates. i am quite concerned about these areas. i do  believe that any of them should be penalized due to administrative delay. even though they are moving ahead. it seems to me. we should support them for a while longer to make certain they do  fall back. accordingly. i urge my colleagues support in giving these areas an extra year of eligibility under the ecoic development act.
 of the international ladies garment workers union. american labor leader has done more to bring to fruition the highest objectives of those who founded the labor union movement. for over 30 years david dubinsky has exhibited to all the essence of honest. integrated. responsible unionism. the entire labor movement and the rest of the nation are indebted to this imaginative man for his constant devotion to the highest interests of the american workingman. certainly we hope for his continued counsel in the years ahead. david dubinksy passes on to his successors a great tradition and a great responsibility. king them as i do. i am sure they will prove worthy of it. david dubinskys life story is also an inspiration to all americans in that he has risen from immigrant boy to an outstanding national figure. laden with hos and achievement. he richly deserves many years of enjoyable retirement. i ask unanimous consent to insert an editorial from todays new york times praising mr. dubinsky.
. as a sponsor of numerous measures to insure equal employment opportunity which led to the enactment of title vii of the 1964 civil rights act. and of s. 3092 in the present session to improve and strengthen the provisions of title vii. i have repeatedly emphasized the needalong with effective regulatory efforts of government at all levels--for a massive effort to involve business. industry. and labor in voluntary programs for training members of miity groups and giving them motivation. the power of american business has yet to be fully unleashed in the gigantic task of catching up after a century of lag among negroes. two forwardlooking initiatives by business and industry in this field and the related field of slum eradication have recently come to my attention. and i believe they should be given national ice. they are the type of activity which it should be the policy of government to stimulate and encourage. one of these programs is conducted by p. ballantine & sons. brewers of newark. n.j.. and involves a series of management seminars on equal employment opportunity held in cooperation with the urban league of essex county. the second is an urban rehabilitation pilot project in harlem conducted by the u.s. gypsum co. both appear to be excellent initiatives in a direction which i believe has emous potential for good for our nation. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed in the record at this point materials describing the two programs.
 nasser to wage warfare against his arab brethren more inclined to the free worldwith the usual antiisrael counterpoint. the forthcoming visit of red chinas chou enlai is clearly designed to introduce a new theme calculated to worry both moscow and washington.
. the committee on labor and social security legislation of the association of the bar of the city of new yorka group of very distinguished lawyers of the new york barhas just issued a carefully reasoned report concerning bills  pending in congress to eliminate the incomelimiting provisions from the social security act. i commend this report to the attention of my colleagues. and ask unanimous consent to have the text of the report printed in the record.
. on may 13. 1966. the spanish language new york newspaper. el diariola prensa. ran an excellent editorial. in both spanish and english. concerning pending proposals to amend the fair labor standards act. and particularly focusing attention on the difficult problems raised by the potential impact of this bill upon puerto rico. i ask unanimous consent that the englishlanguage version of this editorial be printed in the record.
. i e with the greatest interest and considerable gratification that the senator is active and explicit in continuing to pursue the development of our immigration laws. and  accepting in any spirit of a fortiori the last law which we passed as being the end of the road. i wish to join the senator in that respect. i have  yet had an opportunity to analyze every aspect of the senators speech. but i shall do so because i hold him in great regard as a friend and as a colleague. the basic fact that the american people should k is that we had to make a lot of settlements in the judiciary committee before we got the immigration law which was passed last year. it is by means the great body of immigration freedom that some might suppose that it was. it has great problems and difficulties. the senator and i both fought and bled with regard to refugees and the latin american quota. which had  been present before. in my office in new york we have many immigration cases. as i am sure both the senator from massachusetts and his brother have. this problem is beginning to show up. it is  as easy to reunite families as it was thought it would be when the bill was passed. similarly. the labor certificate problem has been troublesome as well. resulting in hardship and the loss of needed skills for our country. the cause of immigration reform is very much alive. the senator is very much enlisted in that cause as i am.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to amend the national labor relations act so as to revise. improve. and expedite its operation. to insure that the rights guaranteed by the act will be a reality in fact. as well as in theory. and to prevent idinate delay in enforcement. which has often in the past tended to nullify the acts effectiveness. the bill would amend the national labor relations act: first. to permit the board to delegate its unfair labor practice jurisdiction to trial examiners. subject to discretionary review by the nlrb. second. to provide for expedited elections without a prior formal hearing in those cases which raise substantial issue of law or fact. third. to provide for the issuance of temporary injunctions to restrain unlawful conduct by an employer or a union while an election is pending. this would permit the election to be held immediately without having to wait. as is often  the case. for months or years while the board and then the courts finally dispose of an unfair labor practice case on the merits. and fourth. to avoid protracted cases involving socalled "card checks" as a basis for union recognition and permit the employer. when faced with prima facie proof of a unions majority status. to obtain an expedited election. what is at stake in an nlrb case is  at all the same thing as what is at stake in an ordinary lawsuit. nlrb cases involve rights which have meaning only if they are vindicated quickly. in an election case. if the union is forced to wait months and months before an election can be held. the real wishes of the employees may never be expressed. using the political analogy. every candidate for political office ks that a campaign should  begin too soon but should try to bring the issues sharply into focus at a time reasonably soon before the election date. so that the voters will be able to exercise their franchise in an intelligent and informed manner. likewise. in unfair labor practice cases. if employees can be intimidated. discharged and so forth. or if a union can engage in unlawful conduct. and if relief can be granted for 2 or 3 years. there is a premium placed upon delay. and the wrongdoer may reap the advantages of misconduct without having any penalty imposed until long after it will make any real difference. this bill seeks to insure that in both election cases and unfair labor practice casesand particularly in situations involving both at oncethe nlrb will be able to run a fair election. expeditiously. and will be able to restrain any unlawful interference with a pending election so that the whole case will be disposed of without protracted proceedings and yet with maximum protection for the rights of the parties.
. because some of my colleagues may wish to cosponsor portions of the measure i have just introduced. i am also sending to the desk individual bills. each embodying single provisions of that measure. i. therefore. send to the desk. for appropriate reference. a bill to permit the nlrb to delegate unfair labor practice jurisdiction to trial examiners. and i ask that the text of this bill be printed in the record. and that the bill be held at the desk for 1 week for cosponsors.
next. . i send to the desk a bill to provide for the issuance of temporary injunctions whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that unfair labor practices have been committed while an nlrb representation election is pending. and i ask that this bill. also. be held at the desk for 1 week for cosponsors. and that its text be printed in the record.
finally. . i submit. for appropriate reference. a bill to provide for the holding of expedited representation elections by the nlrb where labor organizations seek recognition on the basis of employees authorizations or similar evidence. i ask unanimous consent that this bill also be held at the desk for 1 week for cosponsors. and that its text be printed in the record at this point.
. i ask unanimous consent that the full text of this amendment. as well as the text of the miity views filed today by the miity members of the senate labor committee. be printed at this point in the record.
i did  draw the implication from the statement of the senator from oregon that i was necessarily controlled or that i was sensitive on that point. i was stating a general proposition. as an argument. the senator from oregon said that this is what the mine operators seek. and therefore it is wrong. that they are attempting to get the inside track with the state. i was answering the point that even if they do want itmaybe they want it selfishly. labor wants many things selfishly. too. they may be good. if so. i shall be in favor of them. i am  inhibited. ipso facto. by the fact that they want something.
. i. too. would like to join with the senator from oregon in his very gracious words to all of those. other than myself. whom he mentioned. and to thank also the other members of the committee. i do  believe the senator mentioned the senator from west virginia . who represents a mining area. i k the senator feels as grateful for his service as do i. the members of the miity cooperated particularly fully. and i think deserve a great deal of credit for the passage of the bill. it could have been held up. bedeviled. riddled with many amendments. but their eye was single toward giving the senate an opportunity to exercise its judgment. and at least a majority of the miity stood with the bill. although we were disappointed at our very close loss of what we considered to be the most important amendment. for which we all were fighting together. i. too. wish to thank our majority and miity leaders. as well as those who participated in the work on the bill. and to express my gratification to mr. cummings. who is one of the miity counsel particularly concerned with labor matters. the miity labor counsel. who. as the senator from oregon has generously said. is a splendid lawyer. and. i think. one of the finest anywhere in congress in this particular field. and was of invaluable service in bringing about and consummating this result. i should like to say just one further word. if i may. for the benefit of the secretary of the interior. i hope that when it comes to administering this statute. he will take some cognizance of the things we have discussed. for example. we had idea that the little sand and gravel operations were going to be bedeviled with elaborate schemes for inspection. they were to be kept safe and obedient to the law. but we had clearly in mind the fact that these were peripheral operations. and we expected good sense and practicality to prevail.
 of the foundation for reemployment of new york. describe a useful employment counseling technique being used to prevent unemployment of workers laid off because of automation. encourage the unemployed to find new jobs. and stimulate the motivation of youths and adults. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the two articles written by bernard haldane. the first entitled "focus on success instead of failure" and published in the journal of the national education association for april 1966. and the second entitled "speedy reemployment: solution to a delicate problem." published in the public relations journal for may 1966.
. as we gradually break out into greater opportunities for miity groupsthen i believe the federalstate employment service should do its best to obtain a job for such a person more compatible with his training. and to that extent. recruitment becomes desirable. in addition. where we are dealing with national security needs. where our government. for strategic reasons. has established factories in parts of the country which are hard to get to. or which are underpopulated. there. again. there exists an area for recruitment by a government employment service. on the other hand. to induce a technician or an engineer or a similar reasonably highsalaried employee to leave the boeing aircraft corp. and come east to republic aviation is certainly proper function of the federalstate employment service. but is strictly the business of private employment agencies. i think when we couple the provisions of the bill. which limit the meaning of the word "recruitment" very sharply. with the directives which the committee has embodied in the report. the legislative intent becomes quite clear. the most important of those directives is found at page 4. in the last paragraph under the explanation of this section of the bill. where we specifically say: however. the committee would  condone recruitment activities whose primary purpose was to facilitate pirating of employees without substantial benefit. in addition. the committee wishes to e that certain current advertising practices were open to question. in the future. the manpower services system should refrain from advertising. or participating in advertising. which links the name of the manpower services system with the name of a specific employer or employers. those are very sharp limitations. and they were written to clarify the use of the words "principal purpose." which are found in the bill on page 22. line 6. in the proviso defining "recruitment" in section 4 (a) (1). personally. i should have liked the bill better if the committee had stricken out those words and defined recruitment specifically. without using the words "principal purpose." because those words arouse the fear that the secretary has some latitude. some discretion as to just exactly how tightly he will apply this definition. but when the definition in the bill. which is restrictive. is considered together with the. statements of policy contained in the committee report. with the continuing legislative oversight which we shall have in this matter. and this debate which the senator from colorado has. i think quite properly. brought on. and which will rivet into the bill our intent as set forth in the report. then i think we have achieved a reasonable settlement of this very difficult controversy. which induces me to feel that while i value what is being done. and i think it is necessary. i shall vote to sustain the compromise as the committee arrived at it. the two points which i stress to the senate are. first. the fact that the language in the bill is a compromise arrived at after very ardent negotiation on both sides of the aisle. and. second. that it is clarified and riveted into the bill by the legislative intention which we  display on the floor of the senate as the basis for the imminent vote upon the pending amendment.
i think an agile secretary of labor could. by giving information. engage in recruitment. we do  wish to encourage that sort of thing. we might just as well face the issue. and i think we are facing it when we say that he shall have the opportunity to recruit within a very limited compass. the important thing. in my judgment. is to keep the authority limited.
as the senator from new jersey defines "labor dispute." would he define it to mean also a dispute where there was a question of jurisdiction as between two unions. that would also be a labor dispute. would it . within the senators amendment.
and also as to an organizing effort. where the union may represent a miity of the employees. but  egh to obtain representation. that would be true. so the senator is addingwithout trying to pass  on whether it is good or bad. but we all wish to understand itthe senator is adding a new category   covered by the law or regulations. to wit. an agricultural hirer or employer. where there is a "labor dispute" as that concept is used under the national labor relations act. even though the nlra does  apply.
i thank the senator from arizona. . i should like to be heard on this point. it is  an easy problem. as the senate already ks. of course. but there is equity on both sides. let me explain the equity on the side of the proponents of the amendment. it is a fact that some of the 50 states in the union have labor relations agencies at all and it is up to a commissioner of labor. if there is one. to make an arbitrary decision on what is a "labor dispute." of course. the proponents stated the most extreme case. but it is legitimate. some states could decide that one man carrying a poster saying "unfair" constitutes a labor dispute. perhaps  in states with large labor forces. but. etheless. it could be done. i must say that the words "labor dispute." stated alone. raise that possibility among 50 states. unfortunately. i was  able to be present in the committee room when the amendment was voted on. it is my judgment. as i see the situation. that the prouty amendment could open the door to pressing the situation a good deal further than it has been pressed up to  in the agricultural field. i am told that it is hard to define the difference in a ragged labor situation. as exists in agriculture. between an actual strike and a "labor dispute." a few persons may go out on strike and others may with such large numbers of people involved it could be pretty hard to determine it is my judgment that we can do something with this section. i do  in any way wish to weight the situation against the senator from vermont. i believe that he has raisedas he so often doesa key weakness in the provision. but i am  prepared to go along with his solution. i shall therefore vote "nay" on his amendment. i do  want to suggest any alternative language at the moment because i think he has raised an acute and proper point. and he should therefore have -a fair "shot" at it and have it voted up or down. we must bear in mind that this provision. even if the amendment is adopted. will go to the other body. which has  passed on this bill yet. and they will have aher look at the same situation. but. if the prouty amendment should be rejected. i will undertake. if i can. within the limited compass of time. to make a suggestion. to the senate to endeavor to refine this concept. which begs for a definition. in an effort to resolve the controversy.
i concur with what the senator from pennsylvania has stated. i say to the senator from iowa. we on the committee thought we had arrived at a happy settlement of this recruitment problemand we k it is a problem. the settlement is contained  only in the language of the bill. but also in the report. i should certainly join with senator clark and the other members of the committee in demanding fidelity of the department and the state agencies.  only to the statute but also to the policy and intent which we have set forth in the report.
let me answer that. if we could answer that question. we would  have to argue about this amendment. the senator would lose it. and we would win it. or vice versa. the whole point and reason there is discussion on this amendment is that reasonable difference of opinion develops because we are estimating what can be done. given aher tool. the strength of our argument is. we say it does  hurt the situation. the senator from rhode island has made that clear. therefore. if it can helpand we need itlet us try everything we can. this is  an aimless gesture. we point out that there is a chance. based upon experience. to. do better. i can give the senator this information. that the french estimate putting up 1.26 percent of their national income for foreign aid. but they do aid only with their formei french colonies. and our relations with them. of course. are  very cooperative. we are  getting any additional aid from the french. but we can from the germans. we can from the italians. and _ think there is a chance we can do something with japan. there is an even chance of doing something with britain.  necessarily in money. but in kindthat is. in services. and so forth. in short. we can give the senator a guarantee. if we did. we would  be arguing today. here is something we can do that will  hurt us. but help us. we need help. therefore. let us try everything we can which will help us if it can hurt us.
i believe the service which the senator is performing is a very admirable one. i am the ranking miity member of the committee on labor and public welfare. and i shall make a strong appeal to the chairman of our full committee and to the chairman of the subcommittee to immediately initiate hearings upon these measuresmine. that of the senator from ohio . and of others. i think the time is overdue. i repeat that i regret very much that the president has  yet seen fit to act. and i see happy augury in what he said yesterday. if he is looking for a broad. general consensus. he will  get one in this field. i hope he will yet lead. i hope that again the situation does  arise in which the moment will go by for legislation. and the president will somehow manage to settle the strike. and then we will wait for the next one to catch us as unprepared as this one did. i applaud and appreciate the action of my colleagues in bringing this demand to the floor of the senate. in which the senator from california. our deputy miity leader. has very eloquently joined.
i shall  question the senator in detail about his measure because i am the ranking member of the subcommittee on labor. and i will have an opportunity to work out the details of the joint resolution. i am pleased and hoed that the senator adopted the receivership techniquewhich i think is essential in this situation and a rather new procedure which is embodied in my bill. s. 2797. and which i had hoped to introduce into the labor field in connection with strikes in regulated industries. i am extremely pleased that in adopting this technique in the measure it has been given this most weighty consideration by probably the most experienced labor man in the senate. the senator signals the fact that there is here a great default. it will be remembered that in the firemens and enginemens dispute. the president recommended that we act. to get action here and get the priority which this deserves. there is needed some recomi.-endation of the president. i think the recommendation is due. i am rather sad and i deplore the fact that it is  here and that the president seemingly is still stumbling around with this matter on the theory that he is still thinking over the kind of remedy that there should be. the senator from oregon is one senator. without the machinery of the department of labor. but working on a couple of bills introduced from his own experience. who has come up with a measure which would provide an adequate patternand i shall  go into detail for dealing with this dispute. i use this time to express the hope that what the senator has done will stimulate the president to take more of a hand in the dispute and settle it himself. as he has done before. although i deprecate the need for presidential intervention and the absence of more adequate legislation on the books. the strike is on. and the long procedure of committee hearings. markups. and statements will put this matter far beyond the time when the parties will settle it. to the great disadvantage of the country. this matter needs urgent and immediate action. i feel hoed and privileged by what the senator has done. i think that the model which the senator givesand it is based largely on my bill s. 2797is the right thing. i hope that it provides the necessary stimulus so that at long last this dispute may be settled and that the president will step in and settle it. or tell congress that he wants legislation.
. for myself and the senator from connecticut i send to the desk for appropriate reference an amendment to h.r. 15119. the unemployment compensation bill pending before the finance committee. the amendment was proposed in the hearings by actors equity to cover the difficult problem of multiple interstate claims for unemployment compensation. under existing law. all but six states have entered into agreements covering these cases. credits accumulated. and paid for. in one of the six states are wholly or partially lost when the employee moves to aher state. the same thing is true when the employee moves to one of the six states. even in the remaining states. which do have agreements. some claimants are ineligible for benefits anyway. or are eligible only for partial benefits. because there is provision in the agreements. much less a uniform provision. for definition of the base period on which eligibility and benefits are computed. actors equity proposed. and the amendment  being introduced embodies. a simple requirement that all states participate in arrangements with other states including one uniform and quite reasonable principle. that is. that the base period shall be determined under the law of the state which pays the benefits. in that way. employees who meet the requirements of the paying state will receive the full amounts of benefits. regardless of the base period requirements of the state or states in which they previously worked. this is clearly a needed and desirable amendment to the law. our nation is facing manpower demands which make it absolutely indispensable that there be true labor mobility throughout the nation. the congress has recognized this fact in a number of ways. including tax relief for moving expenses of employees and labor mobility assistance under the manpower development and training act. it should also avoid penalizing employees for interstate movement under the unemployment compensation act. i ask unanimous consent that the amendment be printed in the record.
. i submit an amendment and ask that it be printed in the record and referred to the committee on labor and public welfare which seeks to require the secretary of labor to give us a permanent plan for handling disputes like the airlines dispute.
. on behalf of myself and the senator from california . the senator from arizona . the senator from vermont . and the senator from michigan . all members of the senate labor and public welfare committee. which is presently considering the minimum wage bill. i submit for appropriate reference. an amendment to that bill barring arbitrary age discrimination in employment. the amendment would add a new title to the fair labor standards act. placing enforcement of the age discrimination ban within the wage and hour division of the department of labor. which presently enforces age provisions affecting child labor. subject to judicial review. a major and scarcely touched area of difficulty is the problem of the unemployed older worker. who faces grave difficulties in finding a new job. in spite of considerable skill and maturity. here. i believe there is an urgent need. and have repeatedly urged in the congress speedy and forceful action to remove the two major barriers which the unemployed worker in his middle and older years must overcome: first. arbitrary and unjust age limits on hiring. imposed by employers through prejudice and misunderstanding. and second. insufficient skills or education to qualify for entry into the increasingly techogical industry of today. momentum for positive action on discrimination because of age has been steadily growing. executive order 11141 issued on february 12. 1964. has made it public policy to ban discrimination because of age in employment under federal contract. except upon the basis of a bona fide employment qualification. retirement plan. or statutory requirement. twenty states and puerto rico have adopted laws prohibiting this kind of discrimination. over half of these laws have been passed since 1960. all but three since 1955. under these measures. the states have had broad success in reducing age discrimination and expanding job opportunities for older workers. the major hindrance to further progress has been limitation on staff and funds. my own state of new york. has had such a law since 1958. and substantial progress has already been made. despite the existence of state laws and last years executive order. much more needs to be done. the steps already taken must be extended to cover the entire nation. so that age discrimination can be fought universally and effectively. in june 1965 the congress received a report on age discrimination in employment from the secretary of labor as required by section 715 of the civil rights act of 1964. a provision which i sought in the senate. the secretarys report concluded as follows: there is persistent and widespread use of age limits in hiring that in a great many cases can be attributed only to arbitrary discrimination against older workers on the basis of age and regardless of ability. the use of these age limits continues despite years of effort to reduce this type of discrimination through studies. information and general education undertaken by the federal government and many states. as well as by profit and employer and labor organizations. the possibility of new statutory means of dealing with such arbitrary discrimination has been explored. that area is barren. [emphasis in original.] state experience with statutes prohibiting discrimination in employment on the basis of age indicates that such practice can be reduced by a welladministered and wellenforced statute. coupled with an educational program. it is clear from this experience that an educational program to promote hiring on the basis of individual merit is far more effective when provided for by statute. the most effective way to accomplish this is to make it an unlawful employment practice under the fair labor standards act to discriminate unjustly on account of age. our amendment would give the administrator of the wage and hour division of the labor department authority to enforce prohibitions against arbitrary age discrimination in employment. it would integrate into the fair labor standards machinery enforcement against age discrimination. the administrator would be made responsible for investigating complaints of age discrimination in employment. and for negotiating or compelling redress where complaints are well founded. this procedure would fully effectuate secretary wirtz recommendation thatthe elimination of arbitrary age limits on employment will proceed much more rapidly if the federal government declares. clearly and unequivocally. and implements so far as is practicable. a national policy with respect to hiring on the basis of ability rather than age. the secretarys report set forth the scope and complexity of the problem. concluded that it can be solved. and cited the success of state laws against age discrimination in employment. with regard to skills and education. the report called for increased efforts. under the manpower development and training act and other existing training programs. to upgrade. retrain. and counsel older workers to enable them to adjust successfully to the organization and skills .requirements of modern industry. expanded training and counseling. however. will avail little unless the other more grievous barrier to employment for older workersunjust age discrimination on the part of employersis stricken down. the imposition of arbitrary age limits on hiring. by which many companies refuse to hire any worker above a certain ageregardless of his often considerable abilities or qualificationsis the most serious. the most wasteful. and the least justifiable aspect of the problem. and is a practice regrettably widespread in this country. in the words of secretary wirtz report: an unmeasured but significant proportion of the age limitations presently in effect are arbitrary in the sense that they have been established without any determination of their actual relevance to job requirements. and are defended on grounds apparently different from their actual explanation. although lack of physical capacity is the most frequently cited reason for rigid age limits. many considerations tend to invalidate the idea that any useful purpose is served by such rigid restrictions. they include: the wide variation of age limits for comparable jobs. the general lack of statistical studies in justification of such limits. and the fact that many responsible employers hire workers for jobs from which they would have been barred by other employers solely because of age. in a nation which is more and more oriented toward meeting the needs of the young. we must  neglect the everexpanding population of older workers who have the capacity to be productive. valuable members of the national ecoy. but who can find a job. they must be given adequate scope for their skills and their experience.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record several resolutions agreed to at the recent govers conference held in los angeles. i wish to e particularly the resolution which urges the federal government to require coordination and review at the state level of federal programs in order that their impact be assessed and fully understood in relation to the total development of a state. although the senate passed s. 561. which i cosponsored. a bill designed to improve cooperation and coordination among the various levels of government. the house of representatives unfortunately has thus far failed to enact this legislation. i intend to examine our federal programs to make sure that state coordination is given a high priority. the final resolution of the govers conference calls attention to the fact that the farmers share of the food dollar has diminished from 60 cents to under 40 cents in the last 25 years. i believe we must make certain that our rural citizens are encouraged to continue their work of producing food for our everincreasing population. and for the entire world. certainly one method of discouraging farmers is to allow their share in the national income to decrease.
. i have sat in these deliberations always too happily. i am the ranking miity member of the committee on labor and public welfare. however. i should like to testify  before the senate that withstanding any feeling the senator has about what the committee did or is doing. and his very deep convictions as to the strength of his own positionmany of which i shareif this thing is settled. matter how it is settled. whether it is settled because the men go back to work through a statute. or whether they settle it. as they may. and as we all pray that they will. by negotiation. the senator from oregon will have been one of the major architects of that settlement. he does  have to say yea or nay to that. i say it. and i say it before rather than after the event has taken place.
. this was the development for which the senator from michigan and i were responsiblewere the architectssolely for the purpose of getting a consensus in committee. as it seemed to command a consensus. but when the secretary of labor testified. as he did before the committee on mondayand this was the only clue he gave usthat the administration preferred to deal with a total period of 180 days rather than individual periods of 60 days. it was that alternative which developed the consensus. and that was what the committee reported to the senate.
. we legalize. as far as we can. this interference with the give and take of the ecoic process because e of us is smart egh to have a better substitute. we believe that the communist system. in which this is done by bureaucratic planning. is much less satisfactory than our system. the communist system greatly inhibits freedom and imposes compulsory arbitration so that it leads in the direction which substitutes planning by somebody for the give and take of the marketplace. as represented by collective bargaining. for that reason. i think the general sentiment is against it. unless we go to a system such as we had in the war. when the war labor board. in effect. did it. and unless we go to a system where this is part of the system. in short. hing is wrong. morally or legally. with compulsory arbitration. indeed. in 1963 we did it in desperation. for all practical purposes. in the threatened railway labor strike. what is wrong with it is that it belongs only as part of a system. and as an act of desperation it may have to be done. but it can be justified. if we are to make it a permanent piece of the machinery of america. it can only be done as part of a system. and it antithetical to our system.
the proposition that this is  as deep an emergency as we found in the railroad situation is unquestioned. it is . but it does qualify. under the railway labor act. as a stoppage of essential transportation. the question. is. therefore: do we act or do we withhold action. what we have chosen to do is to act. all these plans of senator clark. senator morse. and mine are designed to act and to still leave collective bargaining open. we are still attempting to safeguard the public interest by bringing these lines into operation. resolving the doubt as to whether it will or will  tend to create a national emergency if allowed to continue. we need permanent legislation. and. as senator clark has said. undoubtedly compulsory arbitration will be considered. i am against it. i believe that the essential function of government can best be served with the receivershipseizure technique. and i am the author of such a bills. 2797and have long stood for that principle. be that as it may. we should  endeavor to anticipate in this way. at this time. on this bill. what will necessarily be the final resolution of this question. because to do so would be to defeat the purpose of the bill and to prejudice the ultimate full consideration of what we should do. compulsory arbitration really does  belong. except as a measure of desperation or as a part of a general national planning operation. in which we certainly do  wish to be committed right .
the senator is giving substance to what we said. in that respect. it is an improvement. may it be said for the committee that we used the words of the railway labor act which we thought were words of art. the senator has made a worthwhile contribution and i hope the senate will approve of it.
to answer the point the senator from washington has just made. in the first place. i hope we include this. and i shall do my utmost to see that it is done. paragraph 8 of section 9 of the railway labor act reads: hing in this act shall be construed to require an individual employee to render labor or service without his consent.  shall anything in this act be construed to make the quitting of his labor or service by an individual employee an illegal act.  shall any court issue any process to compel the performance by an individual employee of such labor or service. without his consent. that absolutely is a "must." i shall do my utmost to see that it is kept in. an injunction provides it customarily even without this provision. but we should be sure that it does  run against counseling or guiding workers to do otherwise. so it would  run against every employee and it would  compel involuntary service. on the second point. and it is a very important point. raised. while i am  trying to be a pollyanna. i feel if the workers go back. their compensation will  go down. i think the money compensation part of the contract will be adjusted back to what was offered. that is generally done. and i think it will be done in this case. next. again without being a pollyanna. i do  believe that an american worker. when he goes back. will jeopardize anybodys safety by the character of work which he does. i do  think it is being a pollyanna. but i can believe that any american worker would  do his job in any sensitive spot such as this as well as he could.
i shall  repeat the arguments which have been made. but assuming the arguments which have been made with respect to the presidents signing the resolution. which makes him a party to this legislation. and the fact that we are following a pattern of the law which inhibits a strike in this area. and which has inhibited it for 8 months. i think the public has a right to have determined whether that strike should be further inhibited under the pattern of the law that is in existence. rather than imposing a new obligation. this is  a measure for compulsory arbitration which deals with terminal settlement. it only continues for a longer period of time the cooling off period already provided for in the law. i agree with the senator from rhode island that it would have been preferable. and i felt it was preferable in the committeeand i have had something to do with this legislationto give the president authority. but. generally speaking. congress gives authority only to one who asks for it. who gives an indication that he wants it. i think that is the greatest defect here. i do  criticize the senator from oregon. i am as deeply concerned as he is about this dispute. the biggest trouble and the reason why congress may have to go this route. which the senator from oregon believes is in the public interestand i had a great deal to do with drafting this measureis that the president has failed to tell us what he wants. he has failed to tell us what authority he would like to exercise. he has left us absolutely rudderless and adrift. i am  trying to criticize what the senator has said. at the worst. he is 49 percent right. but what the president has done. if we are men and members of congress. is leave it up to us without any recommendation. he has said. "you act." the only indication the president has given us is the preference of secretary wirtz. which is against the clark resolution. he does  want that authority. if we can put any credence in what secretary wirtz has said in his statement. he personally thinks. if they are going to do something that is best under the circumstances. they want the morse formula. if there is any substance in secretary wirtz words. we are following the pattern in the law which does inhibit the strike. we are extending the pattern for a given period of time. we are  trying to make a definitive conclusion. whether we exercise the power or give it to the president is tweedledeetweedledum. because if he signs the resolution. the responsibility is with the president. he then receives the authority. if he intends to use it. and if he intends to use it. he has to do it . the provisions of the railway labor act are in effect in the definition.  that there is a national emergency. but that there is a stoppage of essential transportation in given sections of the country. on balance. in view of the compromise and the 30day period of time. during which there is a period for the president to exercise that authority. and if that is the best way to get a consensus. that is the way to go.
i thank the senator very much. he did join with me. and i will state to the senate. it would have been impossible even to get the proposal into this substitute resolution. and make as much progress as we have. unless senator morse had joined in the effort and it had had reasonably good support in our committee on labor and public welfare.  and the congress. if he does want it to take effect. i will support him. it is tweedledum and tweedledee whether he does this or does what is called for in the clark resolution
i want to respond to my good friend from th carolina. there is a song in gilbert and sullivans "pirates of penzance." when the policemen are about to go after the pirates. and it goes something like this: the men begin to sing: "we go. we go." then the major general comes in to sing: "but you dont go. you dont go." that is the situation with the judiciary committee. surely. the committee is fit. it says. "we go. we go." but when it comes to civil rights legislation. the fact is. as the majority leader has stated. it has been months  that the senate bill has been before the judiciary committee. the hearings have been thoroughvery. very thoroughbut that does  give any promise that the judiciary committee has shown a new path. other than the one it has trod so often before. "we dont go. we dont go." in the past. we have had to employ the tactic of catching bills from the house. otherwise. civil rights bills would have been suffocated by the hearings and the hearings and the hearings. and the expiration of sessions. and they never would have received any action.
. reserving the right to object. that presents something of a problem to me. because i am a member of the committee on labor and public welfare. which is marking up a very important bill. and it is my amendment that is pending. i do  want to stand in the way of progress. if the senator will assure me that i will be protected until 12 oclock by allowing some other amendment or action to intervene. i will be perfectly happy.
. i submit for printing an amendment to h.r. 13712. the minimum wage bill. to provide for restrictions on child labor in agriculture. this amendment would provide the full protection to which our children are entitled. and would conform the bill to the provisions which the senate previously adopted in 1961 and again in i ask unanimous consent that this amendment be printed in the record.
. i also ask unanimous consent that the supplemental views. which i filed today and which were joined in by senator harrison a. williams. jr.. and are a part of the committee report on the minimum wage bill. be printed in the record at this point in my remarks. so that they will be available for overnight reading. and senators may understand the background and reasons for the amendment i have just proposed.
. the other point i wish to raise in the proper way. in the course of our discussion. is a section which we put into the airlines strike bill and whichvery happily for all of us. because the airlines strike bill proved to be unnecessarydid  become law. that is. a mandate to the secretary of labor to come forward with recommendations. by the middle of january 1967. as to what should be done about strikes which represent a national emergency or which seriously jeopardize the national health and safety. this is probably the only labor bill which the senate will consider at this session of congress. hence. it is my hope that the provision which seemed to find great favor here and which seemed to find much support in the other body may be made a part of the bill and be the subject of our conference in what is a highly essential action by the executive department in this field. where we were found to be vulnerable both in the 1963 firemens and enginemens threatened strike and in the airlines machinists strike. finally. every member of the miity feels that it is his duty to raise one other question concerning the billthat is. the question of age discrimination in employment. it properly belongs. in our judgment. under the administration of the wage and hour division of the department of labor. this is where we dealt with the question of discrimination in employment on the basis of sex. we believe that age discrimination in employment represents a serious question before the country. many states have already taken action to seek to eliminate it. we believe that the pending bill is the proper place in which to seek to eliminate it on the federal level. thus. i shall have the ho. together with the senator from vermont . the senator from california . and the senator from michigan . of sponsoring that amendment to the pending bill. to sum up. we have a minimum wage bill which in its minimum wage coverage takes account of the productivity and the cost of living. it is  inflationary because it deals with the lowest wage element in the population. it merely serves to correct an inequity. in that these workers are materially lagging behind the parade. it is  inflationary in its effect upon the higher wage and salary levels. because experience has shown the two do  have a direct relationship. though superficially many businessmen are afraid of it. when the minimum wage plateau has been raised to a moderate level. it does  bring about wage demands at higher levels which are quite outside this compass. finally. we are covering new categories in the retail trade. which need to be covered. we have drawn the line at $250.000. that line was drawn for practical reasons.  for ecoic reasons. because. ecoically. everyone should be entitled to have a minimum wage. whether he works in an establishment doing $250.000 worth of business or . but the practicality involved is that it is difficult to enforce such a law in very small establishments. we have covered agricultural workers.. it is high time they were covered. because. as i have said. they are. in effect.. factories operating turning out food and fibers. there are amendments. as i have said. which i shall propose with respect to. child labor. as well as with respect to. emergency strikes. which is necessary ingetting the secretary of labor to makerecommendations. and there is a proposal against discrimination in employment on account of age. i commend the bill and the senator from texas . who has done an extraordinarily fine and just job. in bringing the bill to its present state. the amendments which i shall propose do  go to the essence of the bill. with: which i thoroughly agree. i believe we have the very great privilege of having an opportunity to pass a. measure which represents a necessary element of justice to what are called the "working poor" in our country. which can only be a benefit to our overall ecoy and contribute to the prosperity of our beloved country.
 could resort in the circumstances we then faced. but that we had to provide an ad hoc remedy in the face of an emergency. it will be remembered that we ran into the same situation in the threatened strike of the locomotive enginemen and firemen a few years ago. at that time. too. the nation faced an emergency overnight. and congress resorted finally to what it did  call. but what was tantamount to. compulsory arbitrationan action that made most of us very unhappy. because i and many other senators are against compulsory arbitration as a national policy. and have been for years. in this particular situation the joint resolution we finally agreed to by using. through the great resourcefulness of the senior senator from oregon . the existing techniques of the railway labor act. would have made us responsible as a matter.of law for calling the men back for 30 days. this would be again a most distasteful operation as far as the senator from oregon and i are concerned. i am sure that it would be distasteful to practically every other senator. having run into that situation at the national level on two successive occasions. the senior senator from oregon and i put our heads together to see whether. at long last. the administration could be brought to the point of meeting what we consider to be its responsibility in making some recommendations on this score to us. various bills have been introduced. the senior senator from ohio has a bill which would provide for compulsory arbitration in disputes of this character. i have introduced a bill which would apply the technique of receivership through the federal courts and operation of the struck facilities to the limited extent required by the public health and safety under federal receivership. other senators have other ideas concerning a solution to this problem. the upshot was that we did  feel we could. with the time  available for testimony in this session of congress. come to a choice among the various means of solving the problem. the administration is really under a duty to give us its views as to how it feels about the matter. based on our mutual judgment. we offered an amendment which was incorporated in the airlines strike legislation passed by the senate. whatever may have been the controversy engendered on both sides. there was controversy on this section. it seemed to be universally approved. my soundings in the other body indicate that there was rather universal approval there as well. this amendment to the bill is offered for the reason that this is perhaps the only bill from the labor subcommittee of the committee on labor and public welfare that we will have the opportunity to deal with at this session of congress. it seems to me. therefore. that this is an opportunity to do something constructivesomething which is pretty generally agreed to and which can be incorporated in the pending bill. i would state as one of the conferees. and i undoubtedly will be. if the manager of the bill runs into any trouble with this particular sectionif he should agree to accept it. and i hope he willi would be the first  to let such trouble interfere with the passage of the minimum wage law. i rather hope. under the circumstancesas everybody pretty well agrees that this is the right thing to do and that this is the vehicle through which we can do itthat we can agree to take the amendment to conference.
. i repeat again that i assure the senator from texas. should this represent any block in getting the minimum wage bill through because the other body might object to something contained in it. i would be the first to join in taking the amendment out of the bill.
perhaps it will be of enlightenment to senators if i read the presidents answer at a press conference on july 20. 1966. when this controversy was raging. he was asked about the statement in his state of the union message in january. to which senator morse referred. as to this legislation. and he said: i must frankly say to you that up until this point we have been unsuccessful in getting legislation that the secretary of labor and the other members of my cabinet felt acceptable and that we felt would have any chance of passage in the congress. we are still searching for the answer. and we would like to find a solution that could be embraced by the administration. management. labor. and the congress. up to this point we have  been very successful. i cite that only to underline the point that there is dearth of thinking. investigation. and inquiry about this matter. i am sure that they have their report all written as to what has happened. they probably do  have their recommendation. and that is exactly why this amendment is offered. we want to bring them to the point where they will have to think in concrete terms and be of some aid to us in that regard. i hope very much that. under the circumstances i have referred to. the manager of the bill might be willing to take this amendment to conference. (at this point mr. tydings assumed the chair as the presiding officer.)
. i think that i have covered the entire subject. as referred to by the senator from texas . in the presentation of the amendment. the amendment is  entirely unrelated. i can agree to that. this is a labor bill dealing with the terms and conditions and compensation of employees. it has many provisions with respect to overtime which relate to unionized employees. bus workers. and many other types of employees. the union collective bargaining problems are very real with regard to the bill. but i would  pretend for a moment that this particular amendment which i propose to add is directly germane to the matter of minimum wages. it has a relevance to the labor picture. which is also dealt with in the bill. i said clearly when i started that this is probably the only labor bill that will be passed this year and. hence. we are suggesting that it be used as a vehicle for something which seems to be generally agreed in both bodies of the congress. it follows on the heels of an effort to do the same thing in the senate. in the airlines strike bill. but it was aborted because the legislation was deemed to be  necessary in the house of representatives. i stated for myself that if it should appear in conference that this title would in any way interfere with the adoption of the minimum wage bill. i would be the first  to let it stand in the way. under those circumstances. it seems to me that what we are doing is entirely proper. this is  at all unusual in this body. we have done this time and again with bills that go to various committees to get a particular measure taken care of before congress adjourns for the year. the senator from texas is being incongruous. as i remember. he sought to override his own gi bill of rights. which was an excellent piece of legislation. by an amendment on the most ungermane piece of legislation which possibly could have been attached. i did  object. one else objected. we are accustomed to that in this body. hence. i think that this objection is  an appropriate one in a matter of this kind where time is of the essence. if we let the situation go . aher year will pass and we will have aher emergency. for example. american airlines is on a standby order  until september 28. again. we are dealing with a big segment of the air transportation industry. let us get something started to get out of this cul de sac in which we are lodged. as i have said. this should  be allowed to interfere with the minimum wage bill. i will move heaven and earth to see that it does . i can see the validity of the objection. the senator is proper in making his objection if he does  wish to take the amendment. and we will have to have the senate decide the matter.
. i have the floor but first. i wish to finish my statement. i think that my attitude is the same as that of the senator from oregon . but i do  speak for him. i speak for myself. i. too. will fight very hard. to the limit of my power. to get this accepted by the conference. but i will  allow the minimum wage bill to fall because of my devotion to the amendment. if that is the way it should develop. i would  wish to be responsible. by my devotion to the amendment. for the minimum wage bill  being enacted. that is the meaning of my intention. and i restate it. i can speak for the senator. but i feel as the senator from oregon does. i will fight to the limit of my power.
. i shall support the amendment of the senator from california. i did  support a similar amendment in committee because i did  feel a case had been made for it there. but having studied the facts and figures. and recognizing the facts that apply to factory and farmworkers. in essence. i think there ought eventually to be parity as between the minimum wage in the cities and the minimum wage on farms. there is provision in the amendment for overtime. there is a piecerate exemption. for all these reasons. the objective ought clearly to be stated in the law that it is the intention of congress to provide parity so far as farmworkers are concerned. hence. i shall support the amendment.
. this is  a radical proposal. secretary wirtz has quite properly characterized itand you will find his remarks on page 37 of the migratory labor hearings on your desk--as a "modest proposal"-and it is modest. for it is much less stringent than the restrictions on industrial child labor which have been on the books for two generations. this amendment would allow children between the ages of 12 and 14 to work on family farms and on neighboring farms and would allow them to travel as much as 25 miles to work on a farm in the general area in which they live. this proposal has passed the senate twice alreadyas s. 1123 in the 87th congress in 1961. and as s. 523 in the 88th congress in 1963. this proposal has the endorsement of a vast crosssection of interested personsincluding many of the growers who will be most directly affected. if we turn to page 231 of the migratory labor hearings on your desk. we will see that this proposal is endorsed by the vegetable growers association of america as "a very good bill." this association represents 40 subsidiary associations of vegetable growers in 32 states. or. turn to page 141 and we will see that the national council of agricultural employerswith membership in 35 states. including individual growers and .employer associationsis  opposed to this proposal. despite the fact that this organization is opposed to the minimum wage proposal for agriculture. it is a mystery to me. therefore. why those senators who seek to represent the interests of agricultural employers have even considered opposing this amendment. in whose behalf are they acting. the growers are  opposing this amendment. and surely the children are  opposed. i ask my colleagues: what is the source of this opposition.
. that we are talking about children under 12. i have a child under 12. as do many other senators. and i am shriveled in my soul to think of her working in the fields picking anything for any reasonexcept flowers. it could  possibly do her any good. in agricultureas in industry long agochild labor is the same old practice. perhaps less iced but just as harmful. and we ought to put an end to it once and for all.
 the senator from rhode island moved me so deeply. that i want him to hear this quotation from the section of the bill dealing with wages. this is a law which we are asked to pass. page 42. lines 3 to 7 read as follows. and this is the exemption from the minimum wage: "(i) is 16 years of age or under and is employed as a hand harvest laborer. is paid on a piecerate basis in an operation which has been. and is customarily and generally recognized as having been paid on a piece rate basis in the region of employment. (ii) is employed on"can the senator think of anything more callous. that is what we are saying about kids who are under the age of 16. they are exempt from the minimum wage if they get piece rates at the going rate. we are trying to prevent that from happening to those who are under ages 12 and 14. that is the heart of this amendment.
the distinguished senator from california introduced a bill in 1965 carrying almost exactly these words which we are seeking to put into the fair labor standards act today. he has had a long history of advocacy of this concept of preventing child labor in the fields. and i am delighted to welcome him. with senator williams and myself to the sponsorship of the amendment.
may i say to the senator that there is a plan under this measure by which something can be done which will be constructive and which will provide plenty of opportunity to do exactly what the senator has in mind. section 504. which i sponsored in committee. directs a study exactly as senator lausche wishes. however. upon senator morses motion. we imposed a graduated scale of minimum wages upon those handicapped workers whose work is productive. the senator will ice that in other parts of the bill. where work is inconsequential or where it is simply for the purpose of therapy. such work does  come under the minimum wage provisions. so that we are actually dealing with productive labor. and  with work for therapy or work which is inconsequential. if we provided that up to the end of 1967. where there is actual productive labor. a certificate should provide for at least 50 percent of the minimum wage morethen everything else could be left open. because. according to the bill itself. we would get a study on july 15. 1967. therefore. if senator lausche would be willing. as a way of accommodating the point of view of the senior senator from oregon and his own. if we would strike out on page 64. from the word "beginning" on line 19. up to and including the semicolon after the word "act" on line 23. it would result in doing substantially what he wishes. in other words. certification could be at a figure of 50 percent of the minimum wage which is provided in this bill.
u.s. senate. washington. d.c. attention: mr. frank cummings. dear senator javrrs: the following statement is submitted in response to your request for information on the probable effects of .adoption of the morse amendment. section :602 of h.r. 13712 as amended by the subcommittee on labor. the major provision of the amendment would establish the basic minimum rates to be set by special certificates authorizing the payment to handicapped workers employed in sheltered workshops of wages less than the otherwise applicable minimum rates. the basic special minimum rate would be $0.6212 beginning january 1. 1967. and the rate would be increased as follows: february 1. 1967-$0.70: january 1. 1968-$1.05. february 1. 1968-$1.20. january 1. 196941.60. the amendment provides for needed flexibility by allowing the setting of lower rates for three categories of employees: (a) those engaged in training or evaluation programs where their work is incidental to such programs. (b) those who. because of exceptional circumstances. are unable to engage in competitive employment. and (c) those employed in work activity centers planned and designed exclusively for workers whose physical or mental impairment is so severe as to make their productive capacity inconsequential. the objectives of the proposed amendments are consistent with the divisions objectives in administering the present section 14 of the fair labor standards act. our approach is illustrated by the policy recently enunciated of requiring the workshops which are associated with the national industries for the blind to increase basic rates to  less than threefourths of the statutory minimum by we had expected to extend the underlying policy to other classes of workshops looking to the maximum acceleration of basic minimum wage rates applicable to most employees of sheltered workshops consistent with the standards established by the act. also. we had expected to set lower rates only in situations where lower rates were clearly required to prevent curtailment of employment opportunities. thus adoption of the morse amendment would be consistent with our objectives. the establishment of statutory standards would make more certain the attainment of those objectives. sincerely yours. administrator. [from the office of senator wayne morse. democrat of oregon. aug. 25. 1966]
. these are words of art to take care of any valid employment problem because of age. we are  trying to require the hiring of 65yearold ladiesdistinguished as they may beto be airline stewardesses. or to fit men and women who are square pegs into round holes. or anything of that kind. but the basic problem is very real. a major and scarcely touched area of difficulty is the problem of the unemployed older worker. who faces grave difficulties in finding a new job. in spite of considerable skill and maturity. here. i believe there is an urgent need. and have repeatedly urged in the congress speedy and forceful action to remove the two major barriers which the unemployed worker in his middle and older years must overcome: first. arbitrary and unjust age limits on hiring. imposed by employers through prejudice and misunderstanding. and second. insufficient skills or education to qualify for entry into the increasingly techogical industry of today. momentum for positive action on discrimination because of age has been steadily growing. executive order 11141 issued on february 12. 1964. has made it public policy to ban discrimination because of age in employment under federal contract. except upon the basis of a bona fide employment qualification. retirement plan. or statutory requirement. twenty states and puerto rico have adopted laws prohibiting this kind of discrimination. over half of these laws have been passed since 1960. all but three since 1955. under these measures. the states have had broad success in reducing age discrimination and expanding job opportunities for older workers. the major hindrance to further progress has been limitation on staff and funds. my own state of new york has had such a law since 1958. and substantial progress has already been made. despite the existence of state laws and last years executive order. much more needs to be done. the steps already taken must be extended to cover the entire nation. so that age discrimination can be fought universally and effectively. in june 1965 the congress received a report on age discrimination in employment from the secretary of labor as required by section 715 of the civil rights act of 1964. a provision which i sought in the senate. the secretarys report concluded as follows: there is persistent and widespread use of age limits in hiring that in a great many cases can be attributed only to arbitrary discrimination against older workers on the basis of age and regardless of ability. the use of these age limits continues despite years of effort to reduce this type of discrimination through studies. information and general education undertaken by the federal government and many states. as well as by profit and employer and labor organizations. the possibility of new statutory means of dealing with such arbitrary discrimination has been explored. that area is barren. state experience with statutes prohibiting discrimination in employment on the basis of age indicates that such practice can be reduced by a welladministrated and wellenforced statute. coupled with an educational program. it is clear from this experience that an educational program to promote hiring on the basis of individual merit is far more effective when provided for by statute. the most effective way to accomplish this is to make it an. unlawful employment practice under the fair labor standards act to discriminate unjustly on account of age. my amendment would give the administrator of the wages and hour division of the labor department authority to enforce prohibitions against arbitrary age discrimination in employment. it would integrate into the fair labor standards machinery enforcement against age discrimination. the administrator would be made responsible for investigating complaints of age discrimination in employment. and for negotiating or compelling redress where complaints are well founded. this procedure would fully effectuate secretary wirtz recommendation that: the elimination of arbitrary age limits on employment will proceed much more rapidly if the federal government declares. clearly and unequivocally. and implements. so far as is practical. a national policy with respect to hiring on the basis of ability rather than age. the secretarys report set forth the scope and complexity of the problem. concluded that it can be solved. and cited the success of state laws against age discrimination in employment. with regard to skills and education. the report called for increased efforts. under the manpower development and training act and other existing training programs. to upgrade. retrain. and counsel older workers to enable them to adjust successfully to the organization and skills requirements of modern industry. expanded training and counseling. however. will avail little unless the other more grievous barrier to employment for older workersunjust age discrimination on the part of employersis stricken down. the imposition of arbitrary age limits on hiring. by which many companies refuse to hire any worker above a certain ageregardless of his often considerable abilities or qualificationsis the most serious. the most wasteful. and the least justifiable aspect of the problem. and is a practice regrettably widespread in this country. in the words of secretary wirtz report: an unmeasured but significant proportion of the age limitations presently in effect are arbitrary in the sense that they have been established without any determination of their actual relevance to job requirements. and are defended on grounds apparently different from there actual explanation. although lack of physical capacity is the most frequently cited reason for rigid age limits. many considerations tend to invalidate the idea that any useful purpose is served by such rigid restrictions. they include: the wide variation of age limits for comparable jobs. the general lack of statistical studies in justification of such limits and the fact that many responsible employers hire workers for jobs from which they would have been barred by other employers solely because of age. in a nation which is more and more oriented toward meeting the needs of the young. we must  neglect the everexpanding population of older workers who have the capacity to be productive. valuable members of the national ecoy. but who can find a job. they must be given adequate scope for their skills and their experience.
the secretary of labor. in his study. does  accord with that at all. his study shows that employers argue against hiring older workers for many reasons but that their reasons do  hold up when examined closely. for example. they argue that older workers do  have the physical capability or that pension problems. health and insurance problems. and other costs are made more difficult for industry if older workers are hired. this does . however. stand up to analysis. as the departments study demonstrates. and it certainly does  answer the sociological problem of the older worker who finds himself very much too early. withstanding his skills and experience. on the junk heap. that is what my amendment is seeking to have some influence in redressing.
. the main point which the secretary of labor has made in advising the chairman as to his attitude on the amendment has  been. that there is any difference with the purpose of the amendment but just about how it could best be carried out. he says. in effect. that he agrees it must be done. but the question in his mind is how to do it. after developing it in the committee. this in essence was the situation: really the main question raised was whether it should go on this bill. whether enforcement should be placed within the jurisdiction of the wage and hour administrator. i should like to lay that question before the senate. i do  feel that that is an open and shut case. i would be the last to say that. but as one examines the other possibilities. this appears to be the best settled office for the administration of it. with a highly professional staff. with an emous network of personnel throughout the country. who could best pin it down to do that which is due. wages and hours. of course. are a nationwide problem. hundreds of employers are familiar with the wage and hour division and with its established procedures. this is an agency which has received great support. it administers the fair labor standards act. which this bill amends. it administers the equal pay for more reasonable way of measuring the child labor acts. it does  administer the title vii. 1964 civil rights act provisions on equal employment opportunity based on sex. for that is within the jurisdiction of the equal employment opportunity commission. which was created by title vii. i respectfully submit that the reason for that was  necessarily legislative soundness. but an attempt to make. as my leader has said. the hide go with the hair. we were. in the eyes of some. imposing a statute dealing with discrimination on grounds of color. faith. and national origin. and so they insisted on our swallowing the whole thing. including sex. i doubt that even they would have chosen that as the best way to administer that type of statute. so that in the present case. where we have a gray area of legislation. i think what i have proposed is the best type of administration for this type of statute. it is congenial. it does  go into the sociological grounds of discrimination on account of race or color. i should like to point out. in conclusion. that this amendment will be in conference with the other body. there will be plenty of opportunityif there are any "bugs" or onerous aspects. for example. that must conform more closely to pension plansto have it perfected in conference. i have only the desire to place some federal cachet upon this policy and enlist a great government department in improving the practices. rather than let them go as they are
. one in his right mind would ever turn down an offer like that. i will be a conferee. and i k that other conferees as well will be deeply interested in this matter. i will fight hard for it. but i shall try to shape it so that we can make it even better. along the lines we have discussed. i might point out that there were very extensive hearings last year before the house select subcommittee on labor dealing with this problem. though  in the specific terms of this measure. the matter has been studied in depth by the secretary of labor at the request of the congress. everything bears out that there should be federal law on the subject. i shall certainly do my utmost to see that whatever does result from the conference will include such a provision. and i am sure that the senator from oregon and other conferees will do their utmost as well.
. we already have piecerate provisions in the bill for agricultural workers. i am advised that the wage and hour division believes the amendment will affect a very small number of workers. therefore. on the assumption that it will  change the general pattern with relation to piecework in the bill. and that it will affect only a very limited number of workers. i am agreeable to taking the amendment to conference.
. there is hardly a line in this bill which did  undergo some change in the course of its consideration in the senate. i sponsored some eight amendments which appear in the act as passed. and i think it fair to say that these amendments. as well as those proposed by other senators. more often than  had substantial support from both labor and managementwhich. i think. is a real tribute to the spirit of cooperation which existed in the work on this important bill.
 to take action "for the purposes of establishing an international code to provide for uniform treatment under the antidumping laws of participating nations of the imports of other signatories. such a code should harmonize the antidumping laws. and administrative procedures thereunder. of participating nations." representative curtis. of missouri. had introduced a similar resolution in the house of representativeshouse volume 111. part 9. pages 1207412077. . i have been gratified at the favorable response which senate resolution 133 has received. since july 1965. a gatt working group has held a number of meetings in geneva. as part of the kennedy round trade negotiations. at which the possibility of negotiating an international antidumping agreement has been explored. i am encouraged at the progress which these talks appear to have made. . during the week of september 12. 1966. the interagency trade information committeeticin the office of the special representative for trade negotiations. conducted a public hearing at which representatives of industry and labor expressed their views on the possibility of an international antidumping agreement. a significant majority of those submitting views to the tic supported an effort to negotiate such an agreement. there were. of course. some differences of views regarding the exact provisions to be included in an agreement. but the majority firmly endorsed the principle that i espoused last year in senate resolution 133that international harmonization of antidumping laws and procedures is vitally important to insure the continued growth of international trade. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at the conclusion of these remarks excerpts from the statements submitted to the tic supporting an international agreement.
. i ask unanimous consent that. at its next printing. the name of the senator from nevada be added as an additional cosponsor of the joint resolution (s.j. res. 195) "to direct the secretary of labor to study the operations and adequacy of the emergency labor disputes provisions of the labormanagement relations act and the railway labor act and to make appropriate rec-
. i ask unanimous consent that. at its next printing. the name of the junior senator from idaho be listed as a cosponsor of the joint resolution (s.j. res. 195) to direct the secretary of labor to study the operations and adequacy of the emergency labor disputes provisions of the labormanagement relations act and the railway labor act and to make appropriate recommendations for improvements in such laws.
. the purpose of the amendment is to join the secretary of labor with the director of the office of ecoic opportunity in approving the use of job corps and neighborhood youth corps funds on combined residentialresidential experimental projects as are authorized in section 4 of the bill. this is necessitated by the fact that the labor department administers the neighborhood youth corps. therefore. it seems to be an oversight that the secretary has  been joined in these experimental projects as he is in the regular programs. i understand the amendment is satisfactory to the manager of the bill and that we can dispose of it very quickly.
the only thing i point out is that the executive branch has some rights. too. there is a revolving fund of $4 million which has  been legislatively dealt with. the fact that we may cut off workers operating a program from their salariesin this case. 17 workers--does  mean that we have repealed the revolving fund. we can do that. obligations still exist which have to be met. there is money in order to meet them. it could  be affected by what was said in the report of the appropriations committee. that concerns me as a lawyer. what concerns me more is this: i join in the tremendous respect and admiration for the "firsts" proposed by senator mundt. including the informational media guaranty program. we worked together on that. and i k how much labor went into it. what disturbs mebecause i am familiar with the operations of business. as does the senatoris that there are certain structures of distribution. and so forth. on the printing. on the delivery channels. and so forth. which may be dismantled if the program is actually cut off. and then we may find that we may  be able to restore it. after all. if we do want to restore it. matter under what terms. there have to be two parties to the contractto wit. private enterprise and the u.s. government. so that i had hoped. at long last. for the "second coming"-to continue the allegory of my colleagues in previous colloquy herethis longsoughtfor "second coming" of the foreign relations committee. to look into this thing with imminence. that at least we might keep as much as we could together in the budget. if they could look at it. i appreciate the feelings of the senator from south dakota that it would be better if we cut it off completely. so perhaps if a middle ground could be hewed out here. the situation could be met. if this legislation is cut off as a result of conference. i should like to make two pleas: one would be the plea that the conference give consideration to the hope to which the senator from wyoming has addressed himself. the second plea would be. as a matter of law. because the money remains. withstanding the cutoff of the workers. to perform the obligations to the extent that the money in that revolving fund is available. i do  k what that will mean in terms of operation of the department. i only point out that the recital in the report does  cut that off. i have the greatest respect for the appropriations committee. i k how they feel. i hope very much that. at long last. we we will get a substantive decision through action by the foreign relations committee. the senator was very helpful in that. because he is a member of the committee.
i shall be very brief. i merely wish to observe that there is a paragraph in the report of the managers on the part of the house. found at page 28150 of the record of october 20. 1966. which deals with the administration of the special impact program. of which the junior from new york and i were the authors.  both of us have the feeling that we rather favor the concept taken by the managers on the part of the house. who call attention to the special talent and expertise of the department of labor in similar programs. i do  k that the manager of the bill has any strong feeling on this point. if he does. i should be interested to hear it.
. my colleagues will be interested in the valiant efforts being made to save the world famous old metropolitan opera house in new york. clearly a great and storied opera house like the old met should be preserved if at all possible since new york can use more concert facilities and. as the nations cultural capital. it is my judgment that it could support additional facilities without in any way being at the expense of the existing and new ones like the met at lincoln center. assuming that the new metropolitan opera at lincoln center can realize a sufficient income so as  to jeopardize the investment it has in the old house. then i believe the old house should properly be preserved and continue to be available for cultural events and artistic performances. in this respect i am pleased to e that the vienna state opera has expressed an interest in appearing in new york next fall if the opera house is available for performances. this would be the companys first appearance in the united states and would be a unique opportunity for americans to see and hear this world famous. highly acclaimed company. in connection with the vienna state opera appearance. i ask unanimous consent that an article from the new york times of september 30. the exchange of correspondence between the trustees of the old opera house corp. and vienna opera officials. and a letter on the subject from the distinguished and venerated american conductor leopold stokowski. be printed at this point in the record.
. leverett saltonstalls colleagues all k of his diligence and effectiveness as ranking member on appropriations and armed services committees and his wise counsel to our party as chairman of the republican conference. but because of his fine work here. many in washington may  fully realize the outstanding record of achievement that our esteemed colleague brought with him from massachusetts. the only citizen of the commonwealth in history to serve as gover of massachusetts for three terms. leverett saltonstalls terms of office are still considered models of effective and progressive state government. during his terms of office. unemployment was reduced. public services were increased. and massachusetts established the most outstanding labor record of any major industrial state at that time. since coming to the senate in 1944. he has compiled a record of achievement and hard work matched by few others. especially on behalf of the strength of our armed forces. his truly remarkable achievement on behalf of the citizens of massachusetts and of the nation during 46 years of outstanding public servicebeginning with a term as alderman in his home city of newton in 1920is a source of pride to me and i am sure to all members of this body. his patience and wise counsel will be missed by us all. and i bespeak for senator saltonstall and mrs. saltonstall many continued years of vigorous. prosperous. and fruitful living.
s recent state of the union message included endorsement of legislation to prohibit arbitrary discrimination in employment on account of agelegislation which the miity. specifically the republican members of the senate labor and public welfare committee. sought to have enacted last year. it is therefore a source of considerable satisfaction to us that the administration is  supportingand thereby. hopefully. insuring favorable action onthis measure which has its origins as a miity initiative. so i think it important to record at this point the specifics of the miitys work in this connection. on april 8. 1965. i introduced a bills. 1752 in the 89th congresson behalf of myself and senator murphy. which would have prohibited unjust age discrimination in employment. on july 28. 1966. during committee consideration of the 1966 minimum wage bill. i introduced. on behalf of myself and four other republican members of the senate labor committee--senators murphy. fannin. prouty. and griffinamendment  714 to the minimum wage bill. which again would have barred arbitrary age discrimination. that amendment was referred to the senate labor committee. where it was called up on august 5. 1966. and received the support of five of the six miity senators on the committee. but was defeated because the democratic members of the committee voted unanimously against it. again. on august 24. 1966. i introduced amendment  764 to the minimum wage billon behalf of myself and senators murphy. fannin. prouty. and griffin. and. on august 26. 1966. the amendment was adopted by voice vote on the senate floor. but when we took the bill to conference the house conferees opposed the provision. nevertheless. the republican senate conferees managed to persuade the conference to include a substitute provision requiring the secretary of labor to give the congress a specific legislative proposal for dealing with this problem. and the secretary of labors report is due on february 1. in sum. this has been .a miity initiative until finally the administration and the majority have seen the merit in our idea. and thereby. i hope and expect. insured favorable congressional action in the near future. the miity senators on the senate labor and public welfare committee can be justly proud of their efforts in this connection.
. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed in the record two documents. first. a copy of a recent letter i have written to the director of the federal mediation and conciliation service concerning the use of the guideposts in collective bargaining mediation. and second. a study appearing in the harvard law review of january 1967 entitled "wageprice guidelines: informal government regulation of labor and industry." which details the extralegal steps taken by the administration to enforce these guideposts.
i also ask unanimous consent that this bill. which has its primary emphasis in the labor field. be referred first to the committee on labor and public welfare. and that if it should be reported from that committee and. as reported. it should contain any provisions affecting the tax laws. it will then be referred to the finance committee for consideration of those provisions.
. yesterday i testified before the subcommittee on labor of the committee on labor and public welfare. on the problem of age discrimination in employment. in my testimony i referred to certain amendments to the administration bill. s. 830. which i stated i was going to introduce. and explained the purpose of the amendments. i introduce. for appropriate reference. the amendments to which i referredthey are numbered 1 through 7and i ask unanimous consent that my testimony before the subcommittee on labor explaining them be printed in the record. together with the text of the amendments.
. this year is perhaps the most important year. from a collective bargaining standpoint. since 1959. numerous collective agreements. covering workers employed in large and important segments of the ecoy. are due to expire. and the outcome of the negotiations concerning those agreements will affect the nation in many ways. to take just one important example. it is possible that strikes in a number of our basic industries would adversely affect our defense production and thus interfere with our efforts in vietnam. this is  merely speculation. the administration has recently moved for an 80day tafthartley injunction in the electricians strike in the major west coast shipyards on the ground that the disruption of work there was interfering with our ability to maintain our forces in vietnam. aher area of immediate concern is the railroads. for some time. six shopcraft unions have been bargaining with all the major railroads. an emergency board has been appointed and has made its report. the six shopcraft unions involved will be free to strike on april 12. if they do. the railroads will come to virtually a complete standstill from coast to coast. still aher potential troublespot in the near future is the trucking industry. where negotiations between most of the major carriers and the teamsters. have  reached the crisis stage. i have said it before and i will say it again: the time for congress to act is before a crisis is upon us. we simply can expect to find an acceptable solution that is fair to all partieslabor and management and the publicif we are forced to work in an atmosphere similar to that which prevailed last summer during the airline strike. i am aware that important segments of both the business community and the labor movement do  approve of the solutions--compulsory arbitration or seizurewhich have so far been proposed. from a political standpoint. the whole issue is undoubtedly a "hot potato." from this standpoint. the reluctance of the administration and the congress to act is understandable. but is etheless inexcusable in the light of the responsibility for protecting the public interest which both the administration and the congress bear.
moreover. even from a political standpoint the course we have so far chosen to pursue is shortsighted. the fact is. simply. that we are going to have to make a decision sooner or later. we may avoid having to make it this year. or even next. but eventually we will have to face reality. if we wait until the publics security can longer be iged. or our national defense is imperiled. there is far less chance that the legislation which emerges will be acceptable to all sides as a fair and workable solution than would be the case if it could be considered in the calm. deliberate manner which its importance fully warrants. this in turn means that legislation passed under the pressure of crisis will be far more likely to arouse bitter political antagonism toward those responsible for its passage than legislation enacted under calmer circumstances. there is still a further reason why we can afford to delay acting until an emergency is upon us. the mere threat of a strike in a basic industry may result in disrupting the orderly progress of the ecoy. threatened with a shortage of raw materials. those manufacturers who are able to do so will build up their inventories. thus creating an artificially high demand prior to the date of the threatened strike. then. if there is strike. demand will plummet until excess inventory is used up. these inflationary and then deflationary movements could be significantly leveled out if effective emergency strike legislation. assuring uninterrupted production. were on the books. in short. the public interest demands that we delay longer in giving national emergency strike legislation our full attention. the administration. i might add. is  unaware of the need for prompt action. the president. in his 1966 state of the union message. recognized it and promised to recommend appropriate legislation. senate joint resolution 9 was hing more than an attempt to make him keep that unfulfilled promise. there is excuse for the administrations failure to actits failure is simply a blatant example of subordination of the public interest to purely partisan political interests. we understand that work on the subject is in progress in the department of labor. but so far hing whatever has been advanced to deal with this emergency matter. the administrations abdication of its responsibility to protect the public interest does  justify congress in likewise abdicating its responsibility to the public. the bill which i introduce today is a revision of s. 2797. which i introduced in the last congress. it is premised on the belief that whatever solution is adopted must serve to encourage the parties to find their own solution through free collective bargaining rather than discourage the collective bargaining process. this is why i believe limited seizure. rather than compulsory arbitration. is the best answer. seizure leaves the parties free to settle the dispute on their own terms and encourages them to do so. since seizure itself is distasteful to both sides. compulsory arbitration. on the other hand. encourages the parties  to compromise. in the hope that an award will be somewhere between the last offers by the parties. i do . however. wish to be understood as suggesting that seizure is the only possible solution in all cases. many different ideas have been expressed on this subject. most of which merit study. what i believe it is necessary for us to do. and do . is to sit down and take a really critical look at all the possible solutions and come up with some legislation that will preserve the health and safety of the nation or a substantial part thereof when it is threatened by industrial strife. i close as i began: we should  delay until a national emergency overtakes us. an emergency faces us with respect to railroads. trucking. and west coast shipyards. we may face an emergency in the rubber industry. as i have said before. this is the most important year since 1959 in this field. and we should act . i have suggested a solution. undoubtedly there are other solutions. the point is that we should crystallize the demand for action . . i ask unanimous consent that my bill be printed in the record.
my solution is the partial right of seizure by the governmentthat is. seizure and limited operationin order to protect the public health and to prevent suffering. that is a classic remedy. the other classic remedy. which i do  like. is compulsory arbitration. other people recommend labor courts. we will fight that out in a calmer atmosphere. when we are  facing the question we are  facing. but let us get at it. let us be realistic. frank. and brutal. we can get the leadership in the senate to give us even a hearing on a proposition of that nature. it is  the chairman of the committee or the chairman of the subcommittee on labor who does  want to do it himself.  at all: it is the white house itself that says "" until the white house and congress act. the country will be completely vulnerable in such a situation as  confronts us. i see justification for that. it is one of the most crying shames in the country. i am a friend of labor. i am a prolabor senator. i say so on the floor of the senate today. i have said so time and again before. but i maintain there is excuse for this situation. i will say this. too: there is excuse for either labor or management  being patriotic egh to get in back of such a solution. labor is in a complete flap about this. labor does  k what to do. they have a completely divided house. if they do  k what to do. congress will have to tell them. there is hing unfriendly about that. if they knew what to do. we would be delighted to have them decide on the remedy.
of course. both the senator from illis and i are quite adult and have been around for some time. we are cognizant of our ability to do this. i k that the senator would appreciate. perhaps more than any other person here. the delicacy of the matter. i am sure that he. as i do. wants an exploration of the situation and an effort to arrive at the best remedy having the most support. and because this is a consensus idea we would  be pushing something with violence down the throats of labor or management. that was the reason for pushing for a hearing. in matters of this kind. this procedure is desirable. i k that the senator would agree. we are being pushed to that point by this unbelievable refusal to even have hearings on these bills or on this concept. we are pushed to the point where we are going to have to follow the procedure that the senator from illis suggested. perhaps the matter could be agreed on in the republican conference. it could be brought out. and the miity could have it placed on the calendar. we have given the majority all of the opportunity in the world on this issue. this is a big issue. however. i have hesitated to do that and i have  wanted to do it until  for understandable reasons. this matter should be developed at hearings. with consideration by experts of labor and management. within the powers that congress has. but as it is. congress is being frustrated and denied. . for the second time in a year. we are faced with this embarrassing and panicbuttonpushing situation.
such as the railway labor act. the 80day tafthartley injunction. and consideration of the problem of government employees. which has probably been referred to. and upon which there is legislation pending.
let me say right thereif the senator will permit me to interrupt himthat that lockout is significant because it is so easy to try to dismiss the argument i have been making by saying it is antilabor or antistrike. but here is a lockout on the part of the truckers themselves. the necessary legislation would apply to that situation as much as it would apply to a threatened railroad strike.
i thank the senator. . i wish to conclude so that the senator from vermont can gain the floor. i appreciate very much the stake of labor in this question. i have been personally attacked. because i have an outstanding record. and i am proud of it. with trade unions. as a senator who has been very favorable to organized labor in the united states. i feel in good conscience that i am maintaining that position in the position i take today. and have taken for the last 2 years. because i think it represents a serious threat to labors right to strike. if there is going to be a crackdown. if the pendulum swings the other way. then it could result in taking away labors right to strike. for example. by a requirement of compulsory arbitration. and by so doing. crippling labor. that is the danger that labor faces. so it is as a friend of labor that i am trying to save our country when its very survival is being jeopardized. finally. i say this is  an isolated situation. and that unless hearings are held within a reasonable time to work out a way to deal with these situations. i intend to offer amendments to pending legislation which would set up permanent procedures to deal with this problem. i may be beaten down. but the fight must be. and will be. made on the floor if the problem is  dealt with through committee hearings
. i join with the senator from west virginia and the senator from oregon in this particular matter. it is so easy in this case to be tabbed as some antilabor. antistrike person. those of us who have had a little experience with such matters are  afraid of that. we k that the verdict of the electorate is rendered on a more solid basis than a mere tag. it is very heartening to me to e that the senator from west virginia. with his background and responsibilities. feels very much as we do in this matter. i -think it should be an assurance to labor that the problem is in the hands of its friends and  of its enemies. it is  the enemies of labor who are setting the pace. it is the friends of labor. settlement of this matter would constitute an element of certaintyan element urgently needed by all parties as well as by the nation.
. the subconunittee on labor of the committee on labor and public welfare has completed its open hearings on the bills to prohibit arbitrary age discrimination in employment introduced by myself and the senator from texas . it is my hope that an effective bill will soon be reported by the committee. mr. william m. freeman has written an interesting and informative article for the new york times on the subject of age discrimination. i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record. in addition. mr. george a. whittington. the editor of research/development magazine. in an editorial published in the february 1967 issue. has clearly. succinctly and forcefully stated the case for legislation prohibiting age discrimination in employment. i ask unanimous consent that mr. whittingtons editorial be printed in the record.
. on tuesday. in connection with the senate joint resolution 65. extending the freeze under the railway labor act in the current labor dispute until may 3. 1967. i called attention to the fact that the administration had  redeemed its promises to propose legislation dealing with strikes threatening the national health and. safety. my republican colleagues on the committee on labor and public welfare as well as a number oi the democratic senators who were in the chamber. at the time joined. me- in calling upon the administration to recommend appropriate legislation promptly. yesterday. the new york times added its editorial voice to the demand that the administration act promptly. i ask unanimous consent that the editorial be printed in the record.
. i introduce for myself and my colleague. the senator from new york . an amendment to s. 1126. the higher education amendments of 1967. which is presently pending before the education subcommittee of the committee on labor and public welfare. this amendment would amend title iv. part a of the higher education act to permit a state to use up to 15 percent of its allotment of educational opportunity grants for granting scholarships under a state program. provided that the scholarships would be granted on the same basis of need as the other opportunity grants provided under title iv. it would also be necessary for the state to evenly match the federal funds. these scholarships would be in excess of the present state scholarship program. thus. without additional cost to the federal government. a greater number of needy students would be aided and the states would be encouraged to expand their own scholarship programs. the students to be selected must. in addition to demonstrated ability to pursue a program of higher education successfully. be from families whose size and income level are such as to provide little or support for a student attending college. this provision would also serve to encourage the states to utilize to the fullest the trained counselors within local school systems for the recruitment of eligible recipients. this amendment is identical to a provision i sponsored in the last congress which was included in the higher education act of 1965 as it passed the senate but which was omitted in conference. the amendment has the support of educators. including the new york state department of education. new york state education commissioner james allen has indicated to me that he believes this amendment "would be highly effective in encouraging the further development of state programs. thus increasing the total impact in this critical area of removing financial hurdles to higher education." as dr. allen has pointed out. this is an area which requires a "concerted effort by a federalstate partnership for effective solution."
 would be given an alternative to directing that the determination of the special board shall become effective. instead. he could order a limited seizure of the carriers by directing the attorney general to petition a federal district court for the appointment of a special receiver to take possession of the equipment and facilities of the carriers involved in the dispute in the name of the united states. the conditions under which the special receiver would take possession of the railroads and operate them are the same as those specified in s. 1456. the general bill authorizing limited seizure in all emergency labor disputes which i and senator kuchel introduced earlier this year. i believe that by incorporating either of these amendments into the proposed legislation before us. we would put to rest the ion that congress is in any way committed to the principle of compulsory arbitration as the best method of settling labor disputes which threaten the national health or safety. my own views in opposition to compulsory arbitration are well kn. and i k they are shared by many of the members of this committee. i also k that most representatives of both labor and management are of the view that compulsory arbitration is an anathema to the process of free collective bargaining. that process represents our own unique form of ecoic selfgovernment and i. for one. am deeply concerned to see that it should  be compromised--even on an ad hoc basis. there are other alternatives. such as the very limited form seizure or a congressional veto of a mandate with which congress does  agree. which are incorporated in the amendments i have introduced this morning. it is my hope that before we take action all the possible alternatives will be fully explored. i ask unanimous consent that my amendments be printed and appropriately referred.
s statement in his state of the union message well over a year ago. congress should have done it itself. there are many bills pending here. my own. the pickle bill. and others. which could form the basis for such action. but these are questions that are  central to the particular issue  before us. they may be central to who gets elected in respect to the labor issue. but they are  central to this issue. the central point for us to consider  is that it is our duty to keep the railroads operating. as this is the only practical legislation upon which a necessary majority can be mustered. i have been for it. as i said before. i am against compulsory arbitration. this does have some elements of the imposition of settlement. however. i do  consider it to be compulsory arbitration. i submitted an amendment that was accepted by the principal author of the bill. the senator from oregon. it was backed by the miity on the committee. it is to be found on page 4. lines 8 to 10 of the bill. that language saves the bill from being compulsory arbitration because it requires the board to make its determination on the basis of "a fair and equitable settlement within the limits of the collective bargaining and mediation efforts in this case." that gives a guideline and a base which. as the senator from oregon has properly said. if violated. would furnish the basis for court attack. to put it simply. the special boards determination must be within the collective bargaining of the parties. their offers and counteroffers. and within the mediation efforts. which the senator from oregon properly defined as "the efforts of the socalled fahy board. rather than the decision of the ginsberg emergency board" which were of a judicial character. i believe. therefore. that this is a matter of first impression. a unique kind of approach which can be categorically classed as "compulsory arbitration." i hope that the trade unions will  persist in their opposition on the classic groundthat they are opposed to compulsory arbitration. i do  believe this is compulsory arbitration. i further point out that the right to litigate with respect to determinations made hereunder is contained in subsection c of section 5 at pages 5 to 6 respectively. that is also an amendment which i submitted. it was backed by the miity and was accepted by the senator from oregon. it recognizes the right to test in court matters which can be tested. the essential matter is whether the ground rules and guidelines laid down by the pending measure have actually been followed by the special board as well as the usual questions of fraud. inadequate -hearings. and so forth. it is all made subject to the jurisdiction of one courtspecifically. the district court for the district of columbia. i think it is fair to sayspeaking for myself. and i will  even try to speak for the senior senator from oregonthat my record has indicated here an understanding of the needs and requirements and. indeed. the desires of american labor second to few other senators. if any. i have paid very great attention in the long course of this matter to all aspects of the problem. let us remember that we have  had two statutory stays of either a strike or lockout. totaling some 67 days. we have been considering this matter for some months. so. it is  by any means a matter of first impression. there has been a lot of time to think it over.  only for ourselves. but also for the country. there has been sufficient time to reflect on what the bugs in this thing may be.
. as i suggested to the majority leader which i understand will be about 15 to 20 minutes. to my distinguished colleague. the senator from vermont . who has been so helpful and so cooperative in respect of this as in every other matter in the committee on labor and public welfare.
the resolution before us.  the kennedy amendment. is a fair and equitable settlement . of course. what we do within the limits of collective bargaining and mediation. in this case. is precise. the determination must be within the limits of collective bargaining and mediation in this case. this is part of the resolution which is precise. this is what the resolution provides. that is what it should say. that is the kind of thing we would have to contend with in a real seizure provision in permanent legislation. personally. i believe that it would be a mistake to adopt the kennedy amendment. under these circumstances. when we have a measure which i agree with the senator from oregon will work.
. as i am an appointed delegate to the international labor organization. i ask unanimous consent that i may have leave to be absent from the senate on such days next week as i may require to attend their meetings.
the special board appointed by the president. the third change made by the amendment is that if the parties- agree to accept binding arbitration during the 10day period. that. too. will end the dispute. july 17. 1967 co1d because the railway labor act provides for binding arbitration. and we incorporate by reference the provisions of the railway labor act. insofar as arbitration is concerned. in this particular provision. so the three changes are as follows: first. within 10 daystime extension. the time remains the sameafter the special board makes its findings. labor and management are required to accept them or reject them. second. within those 10 days. labor and management may agree upon binding arbitration under the provisions of the railway labor act. we incorporate the railway labor act provisions by reference. third. in the 20 days following the 10 daysstill within the 90day periodcongress may. by joint resolution. which requires the signature of the president to make it effective. invalidate. cancel. or reject the findings of the special board. i characterize that as a lastresort guarantee. should there be a universal feeling that the board has gone haywire or has been a runaway board. a resolution to veto the special board determination would be governed by the procedures of the reorganization -act. this provides for specified periods of time within which there is to be committee action. and avoids any possibility of what we in the senate euphemistically call extended debate or filibuster. the action of congress and the president is to be taken actually within the 20day period. this would be done by incorporating in this amendment. by reference. the provisions of -the reorganization act. what is the reason for the amendment. in the first place. this thinking represented the pinnacle of agreement in the conference. we came the closest to agreement upon this amendment as representing the position of the senate and the house. the senate conferees. by a vote of 8 to 2. agreed to accept it. the house conferees. by a vote of 5 to 4. rejected it. from that point on. we were on our way downhill. in terms of agreement. we just could  come to any agreement. this represented the pinnacle of our ability to agree. the composite amendment is composed of a provision by representative adams. of washington. who suggested the idea of letting the parties accept arbitration. the provision for a 10day period for acceptance or rejection is the product of the thinking of representative friedel. of maryland.
the possibility of a veto by joint resolutionthat is. by the action of both houses of congressand the signature of the president is the product of my own thinking and that of the senator from michigan . finally. the question. why the amendment at all. why  go ahead with the senate joint resolution. that is the proposal of the senator from oregon . i am rather hopeful that he will support the amendment which the senator from michigan and i are proposing. there are two good reasons for supporting it. first. to make it very clear that this is an ad hoc proposition. designed for this particular eventuality. that it does  represent a permanent pattern for the settlement of labor disputes of this character which get us into national emergencies. the best way to flag this very clearly as an ad hoc proposal. just for this particular occasion. is by bringing congress and the president into the final process of requiring labor to take this particular kind of settlement. the second point concerns the very deep antipathy of labor and the deep reservation which many of us have. including myself. about the advisability of compulsory arbitration in major labor disputes. and the fact that under these circumstances there seems to be other way to settle the dispute. i agree to act accordingly in reference to this legislation. whatever it may mean to me as a legislator in respect of union relationships. which i value greatly. and always have in my service. our nations welfare comes first in the minds of all of us. but at least the proposal is an effort to make it. as far as we can. an assurance to organized labor that the process of finality which we are requiring will be a fair one. so i repeat. if the special board appointed by the president. matter how distinguishedand i am sure it will be distinguishedin the final analysis. goes overboard or exceeds its authority. or is a runaway special board. there is a power of correction. labor can say. "you are absolutely mandating upon us what a board. without the legislative responsibilities which members of congress have. may require. and making that final." all we are really making final is the law of the land. and we could undo it by aher appropriate law. the only reason we are writing it in herebecause we could do it anyway. by passing a law at the end of the 70 daysis. first. to give assurance to labor in advance. because after all. we do wish them to obey this law when we pass it. and. second. to write in the procedures of the reorganization act. which will actually enable us to carry out our will within the 20day period stipulated. otherwise. the matter could be filibustered or talked to death in committee. and congress might never act upon it. even if it wanted to. in order to accomplish that. we have to write in these procedural sections. which we do incorporate by reference. . this was about the toughest conference i have ever been in. there were at least 25 votes taken by the senate and house conferees. it was really a deadlocked situation. under the circumstances. where we do face a national emergency and where it is possible to do. with inconsistency. jeopardy of the fundamental legislative scheme of the senate. what the senator from michigan and i suggest be done. we feel we are at least making some effort to mollify those who feel so very deeply in opposition. they will  be happy with the result today. they will be just as critical of me. of senator griffin. and of everybody else connected with the matter as if we voted straight for the senate bill. but i believe second thoughts will prevail. and people will realize tomorrow. if they do  today. that we really tried. consistent with the basic principles to which we are committed here in the senate. to take care of these concerns with finality inasmuch as we could. that that is what we have sought to do.
it is said that it would be a precedent. i think that is probably the most important reason for agreeing to the amendment. it is a way to make this an ad hoc measure and  a precedent. this would be qn ad hoc law and  a precedent whih would make it possible for the final power to be in congress. otherwise. we would make a precedent of compulsory arbitration. the very subject on which there is so much antipathy in the hearts of american labor. compulsory arbitration would thereby be laid down as a precedent. do  do that. make it possible to bring the problem back to us. we can work out our will on it. this is  exercising a precedent. however. if we lay down the idea that a labor dispute will be concluded by a special board. that would set a precedent of compulsory arbitration. i agree with the senior senator from oregon. i wrote. things into the pending bill in a labored effort to .keep the bill from being a precedent on compulsory arbitration. by doing this. we would confine the board to that and  give them free reign. in the final analysis. when we are hopelessly deadlocked between the house and the senate. we introduce the final sanction that if everything goes wrong. the measure can come back to congress. if the house and the senate and the president will it. i respectfully submit that this is a very small matter. and yet it could be a big matter if we suggest to the house of representatives: "we are  inflexible." we are  saying that we want it or else. we are  saying. "we are going to get it. or else." the members of the house of representatives are just as determined and sensitive and temperamental and just as proud of being representatives as we are of being senators. i have been here long egh to see this happen before when human beings just will  take it any more. what guarantee have we that they will take it. inflexibility generally breeds inflexibility. we would be showing the members of the house of representatives that we are trying to meet the views of some of the members of that body. are we going to get any less votes than we would get for the proposition they passed. we are bound to get more votes for the proposition they defeated. they defeated the senate measure. that is the logic of the situation. we would get more votes because the other measure prevailed there. the members of the house want to grant a 90day extension. . i hope that we break this deadlock and get the trains rolling in the way we wish they would run
. although i am unalterably opposed to compulsory arbitration as a permanent method of solving labor disputes. even if they are of a national emergency character. i shall vote for this bill as the only possible way in which we can  extricate ourselves from the danger we are in because we have permanent law. a bill must be gotten on its way to the other body and this is the only bill capable of being sent underway. it is my fervent hope that organized labor and management will perhaps  realize the utter futility of proceeding on an individual case basis to deal with these emergencies. there are better longrange solutions than the one before us. but the one before us is the only way we can avert an immediate catastrophe. i fully believe that if and when we can consider this problem in a crisis atmosphere. the virtue of other solutions. such as limited seizure. can be more fully explored and. i hope. more readily accepted.
. i wish to comment on the splendid performance of the u.s. delegation to the international labor organization. while i was at geneva i had the opportunity to observe the work of david morse. the director general of the international labor organization. who has been elected for his fourth term. mr. morse is a splendid civil servant. who is an american. and i might mention. by the way. a new yorker. in his capacity as director general he performs highly sensitive work on labor problems where the communist world confronts the free world and there is a tripartite meeting by labor. management. and government. mr. morses career is so distinguished that i wanted to remark about it for the record. he has made an extraordinary record in over 20 years of service in one of the most sensitive positions that can be filled by any u.s. civil servant. i consider it a mark of ho that he is one of our citizens.
. i am pleased to advise the senate that david a. morse. a citizen of the state of new york. and one of the most outstanding international civil servants in our world today. has been elected director general of the international labor organization for his fourth term. mr. morse has headed the ilo since june 1948 and has thus served in office for more than 18 yearsa term of service unprecedented in the annals of international organizations. the election was unanimous. as it had been when mr. morse was elected for new terms in may 1957 and in march 1962. as the governing body of the international labor organization reflects the tripartite character of the organization. the unanimous vote indicated the support of employer and worker representatives as well as those of governments. prior to his initial election to the post of director general of the international labor organization. mr. morse had had a distinguished career in the government service of the united states. he headed the u.s. delegation to the annual conference in san francisco in june 1948. when he was first elected director general. at that time he was acting secretary of the department of labor of the united states and previously had held high positions in the department of labor. the department of interior. the national labor relations board. and in the militaryhaving served in responsible posts in the allied military governments for several european countries. mr. morse was born in new york city and attended the public schools of somerville. n.j.. rutgers university. and harvard law school. during mr. morses tenure at the ilo. the membership of the organization has increased from 55 to 119. the regular budget of the organization has increased from approximately $4.5 million in 1948 to $22.5 million in 1967. much of the resources of the organization and additional large sumsapproximately $14.8 million in 1967are devoted to the ilos technical cooperation activities. under which more than 650 experts served in all parts of the world. this operational work takes place in such fields as vocational training. management development and productivity. manpower services. cooperatives. social security. workers education. labor administration and relations and labor statistics. and safety and health of workers. at mr. morses initiative. new educational dimensions have been added to the activities of the ilo by the establishment of the international institute for labor studies in geneva and the international center for advanced technical and vocational training in turin. the organization under mr. morses leadership. has also played a leading role in forging the links among the specialized agencies and the united nations to construct a family of institutions working for world peace and development. due in large part to the personal competence of mr. morse. buttressed by his long service which has resulted in his becoming the dean of executives of international organizations. the ilo has been able to take a commanding position and to exert real leadership in the administrative committee on coordination of the ecoic and social council of the united nations. in the advisory committee on administrative and budgetary questions. and in the ecoic and social council. itself. the long experience of mr. morse. which is of a character recognized by the seniority practices of the u.s. senate. has given mr. morse a unique position in the organs of the united nations. one that has enabled him to make a major contribution to the work of this organization. and one that has reflected with great credit on the ilo as well as the united states. in accepting his election to a fourth term. mr. morse expressed his personal satisfaction in continuing as director general: because those things in which we are engaged here coincide with my deepest personal convictions. in the first place. i hate discrimination from the bottom of my toes. in the second place. i am made ill by the vistas of poverty to be seen in the world. in the third place. i am overwhelmed by the problems of sickness that exist everywhere and especially among the less fortunate peoples. next. i hate war and i realize that if we are going to make some impact on the problem of war and peace we must deal with its causes. i feel that in this organization we are at grips more than many people think with the causes which underlie the continuing generation of war. finally. i believe profoundly in the brotherhood of man and in the necessity for love as the basic ingredient. the basic cement of this brotherhood. thus. with understanding and dedication. a distinguished american has once again taken up the reins of an organization in which the united states has joined with the other nations of the world in seeking peace through social justice. it is a privilege to bring to the attention of congress and of the american people the record of this american who has placed duty above all else. in helping to provide the world leadership so much needed today.
there is question about the fact. and i repeat. that the senator from alabama [. i pay tribute to the senior senator from new hampshire . whom i replaced rather than displaced because he was its architect as the ranking member on the subcommittee. the senior senator from new hampshire has been so friendly and tremendously helpful in guiding me in the work which i have tried to do. he has given me great support in matters concerning which i may  have been as sure of myself as i was of the fact that he wanted to help me in carrying out this new assignment. i am very grateful to him. with all the prayers and patriotism and good will in the world. it takes money to do what must be done to repair decades of deprivation in the ghettos. we also have the stark psychological fact that 10 million americans from rural areas. mainly negroes. have migrated into the great cities in one decade alone. that problem will be met by the pending bill. albeit very inadequately. it bears out what the senator from oregon said about the teachers corps. we are  trying to assess upon the nation exclusively local problems. we are seeking to have the nation bear the responsibility for an emous sociological shift of population in the country which has taken so many of our taxpaying elements from the big citiesespecially the bigger citiesand transferred them to the suburbs where they pay income taxes. but city taxes. this is  what the cities bargained for and is  what they need. we must have the help of the federal governmentalbeit this would be very inadequate assistanceto deal with the matter. i hope that at the very least the senate will approve the measure as the committee brought it to the senate floor.
. i am almost in the same position as the senator from rhode island. i am the ranking miity member of the appropriations subcommittee and the ranking miity member of the education subcommittee. as well as of the committee on labor and public welfare. i am absolutely convinced of the validity and soundness of this program. i believe it is an indispensable tool in dealing with the conditions which have brought on riots and violence and which are continuing them to this moment. it is an answer to the idealistic striving of american youth. shown in the peace corps and in vista. my own daughter is in vista. and i k a little about that program. i should like to present aher matter to the senate. let the senate k how serious this matter is. this is the * only place where what we are doing can be done. there was appropriation in the house. because there had been authorization bill.
that is exactly right. it is encouraging to me to have such distinguished support from the deputy majority leader. he has described my objective exactly and has stated the very important point that this technique does  result in a budgetary impact. on the contrary. it would result in a budgetary plus. we make money on the guarantees. if my colleague will bear with me. he prompts aher comment. the thought in my mind as to the nature of the business judgment which goes into the making of investments. i think it is most interesting that in all the years in which we have had the specific risk guarantee as our policy. our actuarial experience has been absolutely extraordinary. the amount of losses has been infinitestimal. we have made over $400 million on the program. as a matter of fact. right here in the bill. the committee recognizes that. and have themselves said that inasmuch as we make $10 million a year and the cost is $1 million to administer the program. why  have the cost of administering the program come out of the money we make. they themselves recognize that here is. at long last. a scheme in which we do what we get to do without a budgetary impact. i come back to the basic proposition of investment judgment. although we might think superficially that we have got a u.s. guarantee and companies might be a little reckless about where they put their money because the government is guaranteeing it. so why worry. it works out in reverse. because. apparently. the whole concept of business judgment is based upon the idea that we will  go into it without a guarantee but. at the same time. we will  hazard our judgment that we will have to use the guarantee. because the worst thing in the world would be for a business administrator to find himself reduced to the point that he had to resort to the guarantee to get back the investment which he made. hence. we couple the inducement to go into the deal with an eye toward the business judgment of a kind we really can get in government. it would be really impossible to expect it. because so many of these gifted and experienced people in a specific line possess the kind of talent we can hire in the u.s. government. i would much rather have them lending my money than an administrator in a government department who had the best will in the world. because they represent the top flight people that our society produces. this is the real essence of the argument where we have a governmental technique which carried the best brains. the best technical skill. the most expertise. but can have the opportunity to make investments and do it in other countries to the betterment of the country therein. instead of encouraging them. what we have done. if we take the bill as it is. is to dampen it down. i am grateful to the senator from louisiana for his comments.
. the article reading it carefully. does  actually state. in so tribute to charles h. jordan. many words. that the labor dispute ina working humanitarian volved the conciliation agreement. but it implies that this was the case.
i had a discussion earlier with the senator from vermont about the $200 million. and he stated that his intent is that it shall only be deducted from title i to the extent used. but he was unwilling to specify the conditions at the moment. because he wants to be sure that the secretary of labor will do his maximum to use it. but the senator from vermont would be willing in conference to see that type of approach worked out.
. on september 20. 1967. mr. irving stern. director of organization of the amalgamated meat cutters & retail food store employees union of greater new york. spoke to the greater st. louis industrial relations corp. on the future of collective bargaining. he pointed out. and i fully agree. that if collective bargaining is to continue to serve us well. it must change from a war between management and labor to more of a cooperative venture. he also pointed out that an important adjunct of this change must be an effort by labor and management leaders to educate those whom they represent as to the intricacies of the collectivebargaining process and the cooperative rather than the antagonistic philosophy which must prevail if it is to be successful. the speech is a truly remarkable example of the maturity of outlook which responsible participants in the collective bargaining process are beginning to develop and augurs well for the future of collective bargaining as an institution in this country. i ask unanimous consent that mr. sterns remarks be printed in the record.
i have had in mind testifying on this bill for labor courts because it seems to me to be a monumental. historic departure from the concept of collective bargaining that we have spent decades building up. it seeks to shortcut the process with which we have been struggling to deal with strikes which tend to tie up the nation in an important segment of industry. such as railroads. airlines. and similar strikes. with which we have dealt in the labor committee. i should like to join the senator from oregon in taking a stand against such a bill. the best that can be said for the bill is that it is very premature. but what is more important is that here is a totally new collateral attack on the collective bargaining system. with which we are having egh trouble as it is. and the bill will tend to divert energies toward contending with it. when it is really  apposite to the situation. under anything we can see in the present and look forward to in the future. we would be much better advised to do what the senator and i have urgedto consider the range of alternatives available to congress. the president. and the country for dealing with these socalled national emergency strikes which have frustrated us. in the case of this bill. we are sort of going off into alice in wonderland. we are talking about labor courts when the country is  remotely ready for it. it is a different situation from the basic social and ecoic structure of the country which is based on collective bargaining and trade unionism as it exists today.
. which also was raised with me by our miity leader. the senator from illis relates to that section 4(f) (2) of the bill. found at page 20. lines 20 to 25. as the senator from texas described it. that subsection provides an exemption from the prohibitions of the bill in the case of observance of bona fide seniority systems or employee benefit plans such as a pension. retirement. or insurance plan. the meaning of this provision is as follows: an employer will  be compelled under this section to afford to older workers exactly the same pension. retirement. or insurance benefits as he affords to younger workers. if the older worker chooses to waive all of those provisions. then the older worker can obtain the benefits of this act. but the older worker can compel an employer through the use of this act to undertake some special relationship. course. or other condition with respect to a retirement. pension. or insurance plan which is  merely a subterfuge to evade the purposes of the actand we understand thatin order to give that older employee employment on the same terms as others. i would like to ask the manager of the bill whether he agrees with that interpretation. because i think it is very necessary to make its meaning clear to both employers and employees. i ask whether he agrees with that interpretation of subsection (2) of section 4(f) of the bill. found on page 20. lines 20 to 25. inclusive.
. there is hing contained in the pending amendment which would change the efforts of congress to correct what new york did. and new york will accept that. i have always said that there are two things about which new york is concerned. first new york is willing to accept a ceiling on federal participation. provided that it is discriminatorily administered. if new york wishes a higher income eligibility standard. new york. will pay the bill for it. second. the same income limits should  apply throughout a state. when very fundamental differences in cost of living occur in that state. to have a single income limit increases the cost to the federal government and to the state. that subject will be covered in aher amendment. new york will accept whatever income limits congress affixes. the senator from california has suggested a very fair standard of income limits in his amendment. as anyone who will examine the table will find. that standard will cut the new york participation in the federal p.an down very materially because right  our income limits are up to $6.000. the standard which the finance committee bill would impose. would cut back new yorks income eligibility to about $5.100. that is perfectly acceptable to us. however. why should the medically indigent be discriminated against merely because they are  on cash assistance. the number of people who would be effected is. roughly speaking. twofifths of the total. there are about 5 million people in new york state alone whose income would be below this ceiling. of these 5 million. about 1 million receive cash assistance. approximately 1 or 2 million are eligible to receive cash assistance. we remainder will be discriminated against because they are  presently receiving or eligible for public assistance. they are  taxing the welfare rolls and. for this. they are to be discriminated against. they are managing to hang on by their teeth. and if they become ill. they will  be able to hang on. we would be discriminating against these people by causing many states to cut them out of medical assistance programs for the states could  carry the financial burden of including them.
. i wish to ask the senator this question: is it  a fact that the same income limits the bill would set would apply to those medically indigent under the state plan. they are covered by the same income limits. are they . as for these welfare recipients. we are arguing that they are exactly the same class because there is one income limit. however. the senate finance committee bill discriminates in how much federal assistance some of those included would receive. the essence of our argument is that there is discrimination. the state is induced  to extend medical assistcxiii- 2089part 24 ance because they are  drawing cash relief. the senator wants to encourage people to go on cash relief. do  discriminate against them. lower your limit. if you want. but treat everybody who falls below the ceiling in the same manner. that is the essence of our argument.
. i think our argument has been very well made. i join with my colleague from new york in thanking the senator from california for taking the laboring oar and leading in this effort. the argument has been succinctly made. we have started the program. it is a good program. we accept the imposition of a ceiling on income eligibility. however. the question is. shall we discriminate against those who are  on public assistance. because we insist that they be on cash relief before they can receive medicaid. it seems to me that is the primary injustice in this bill which we are here seeking to correct. therefore. i believe that the amendment should be approved.
the difficulty with this debate is that we are  keeping in mind the way this particular bill is written. the way it is written. . the mother with children within the legal age can be compelled to work during the time the child is  attending school. that is what we wish to correct. that is what we are after. she can be compelled to work as far as we are concerned when the child is attending school. the question is what happens thereafter. as has been properly said. that child is  eligible for day care and. in addition. under the bill that mother can work voluntarily. which adds to the argument of the senator from nebraska. or she can work and retain a large part of her earnings. the psychological aspect of this matter that has  been mentioned is that 26 percent of -the kids in that wage level are practically parentless and wandering around. they are from harlem. that is what creates the problem. fortysix percent of the people in harlem are from broken homes. that is what we are talking about. we are  talking about nice people from nice neighborhoods. but about nice people from slum or ghetto neighborhoods. this is an effort to face the actual problem. and  talk about us managing their lives. such a mother can work. in her judgment. if she wants to. and we should  make her do so. which is the intent of the bill. we should adopt the amendment. and i hope the senate does so.
. i would like to commend the senior senator from texas for introducing this legislation today and i am pleased to be a cosponsor. the need for the programs which this bill would foster has been amply documented. as the costs of education beyond the high school level increase. children from families of low and moderate income slip behind in the scramble for admission to quality institutions. a college education has become and will continue to become increasingly necessary as a primary qualification for meaningful participation in our expanding ecoy. yet. for the student from a lowincome family it is becoming increasingly difficult to obtain. this legislation. by permitting the establishment of programs under which scholarship grants would be available to the dependents of eligible workers. would make a significant contribution in a neglected area. in recognition of the need for providing child care services to families of working parents. i have introduced s. 1948 in this session of the congress. i have also sponsored a day care amendment which has been incorporated in this years poverty bill.  in conference. the purpose of the amendment is to provide day care for children of lowincome families in order to enable the parents to undertake training. education. or employment. the provision in the bill being introduced today. which would permit collective bargaining on the establishment of such day care centers. is a parallel step in the private sector toward this goal. i would like to emphasize the significance of this legislation in permitting the private sector to make a contribution in these areas of national neglect. both labor and industry have a stake in the educational development and ecoic growth of this nation. the programs made possible under the terms of this legislation will also contribute to industrial stability. the working mother whose child is being looked after while she is on the job will be a more productive employee. free of worry about her childs welfare. absenteeism on the part of working mothers might also be appreciably reduced. and an employee. recognizing the advantages to his dependents of continued employment in an industry which will provide scholarship aid to his children. would have an incentive to remain in the industry. thus reducing. for his employer. the costs of turer and training of new workers. thus. on all counts this is an excellent bill. i am proud to cosponsor it. and .i hope the subcommittee on labor. of which the distinguished senior senator from texas is the chairman. will give it prompt attention.
i want to thank the distinguished acting miity leader for his very fine words. as the ranking member of the committee on labor and public welfare. i would like to observe that what is unique about the recital of the amendments which the republican miity had included in the bill. and with which i agree. is  a single senators name is attached to the listing of any of these amendments found on pages 186 and 187 of the committee report. although it is well kn who sponsored each of them. the senator has mentioned that. that is as it should be. the reason is interesting. we on the miity side of the committee have acted very much together. this has been our strength. the senator ks that the ideological views of miity members differ. perhaps  too widely. but they do differ. we have been extraordinarily cooperative with each other. because the existence of the amendments was preceded by a stage of consultation. development. and openminded willingness to change. in order to produce maximum support. these amendments are also a tribute to the majority. for without a fair attitude on the part of the majority e of the amendments could have been adopted. it is a matter of particular pride to me. as the ranking miity memberfirst. because every person likes to be the ranking member of a good team. and this team is the best. second. it will be remembered on one occasion.  through any fault of his but because he could  help it. the senator in charge of the bill on the floor had put through an education bill in which the majority lowered the boom on the miity so far as amendments were concerned and eeven of a mi or technical naturewere permitted. i do  think that any of us got over it. it was a salutary lesson. what has happened to the bill is one of creativity born of bipartisan collaboration. of which the senator from california eloquently spoke. unfortunately. these things are  sensational. tomorrows headlines will feature something else. but it will  be remotely so important as what the senator from california has said in this chamber today. that is the most important reason why. to me. this is one of the most prideful committee assignments i have ever had. because of the creativity which has been developed in the pending bill by the committee on labor and public welfare. and in other areas such as health and even labor where we have obtained an extraordinary degree of unanimity of action. the committees efforts remind me of arthur vandenbergs finest hours as the republican chairman of the committee on foreign relations which was responsible for some of the most historic actions ever taken in congress. for all these reasons. i am very grateful to my colleague from california for his eloquent remarks.
. members who support this amendment are guaranteeing a material reduction in the program in such areas as day care centers. the job corps. and everything that the program embraces. they should have misunderstanding about this. the senate committee could ask for $1.788 billion until it is blue in the face and it will  get it in conference if that is what it goes in with. i have been in these conferences. i can certify that fact to the senate. if senators want a decent compromise figure they must support the committee. because that is the only way to get it.
. during the first session of the 90th congress. the republican members of the senate committee on labor and public welfare. of which i am the ranking miity member. made an outstanding record of constructive contributions and effective legislative achievement. in a number of instances. miity members originated the central concepts around which major legislation was built. these contributions of the miity cover every area of activity of the committee on labor and public welfarelabor. education. antipoverty. health. and veterans affairs.
. as most senators k. i have made the involvement of the private sector in antipoverty programs one of my major interests and pursuits. i believe that that involvement is  rapidly picking up speed both in terms of governmental interest in it and actual private business participation. one of the most useful initiatives in this area is the step program sponsored by the national association of manufacturers. under this program. the nam is serving as the vital middleman to make individual employers aware of what they can do to solve their own employment problems and at the same time to have an impact on the unemployment of the hardcore poor. under the step program. the nam has established a clearinghouse of case studies describing proven practices for solving difficult employment problems. interested individuals and firms can  draw upon a crucial information bank which will help them increase their involvement in antipoverty activities. information on the step program is  available in a variety of pamphlets which the nam has issued. and through a motion picture which can be obtained by writing the step department of the national association of manufacturers. 277 park avenue. new york. n.y. 10017. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the text of one of those pamphlets. entitled "new dimensions for action." in the hope that it will commend itself to senators and. through the attention of even more employers in the private sector.
. i do  come to this without specialized experience. i had the ho to serve upon the subcommittee headed by the senator from new mexico . i am the ranking miity member of the committee on labor and public welfare. which handles manpower. and which worked out the ecoic opportunity program. i worked on that in a very important way. i was one of the conferees. and so forth. the very real difficulty is the limitation of the procurement program as it is  set forth in the department of defense and the labor department regulationsthey are limited to the concept of a plant which is within or near sections of concentrated unemployment or underemployment. i contend. through my amendment. that that misses the main point. because these plants may be located wherever people can go to them. adays. one does  walk to work or ride his bicycle to work. he can get there by fast transportation. the question is. what kind of labor is the plant going to use. i am  saying we are going to lock in the secretary of defense. so that matters of secrecy or other problems to which the senator from mississippi has properly referred may be jeopardized or prejudiced. because the words used are "insofar as practicable." by that definition we give the secretary latitude. but at the same time we free him from the "within or near" concept. to cite examples. in a very laudable operation. the aerojet corp. has established a plant within watts. calif.. which is kn as a ghetto. where a great outbreak of riots took place. this company can employ only a relatively few people. about 600. it is completely dependent upon government orders coming in to maintain itself. its life is hazardous. everybody understands it.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to repeal 5 u.s.c. 8524. which provides that for purposes of determining the eligibility of exservicemen for unemployment compensation any payment for unused accrued leave received at the termination of service is considered to continue the federal service and to constitute federal wages during the period after termination of service with respect to which the payment was made. the effect of this section is to disqualify exservicemen from receiving unemployment compensation during the period covered by any payment for accrued leave they may have received upon separation. even if the state law under which compensation is claimed would otherwise permit payment. this provision unfairly discriminates against exservicemen since similar disqualification is imposed on federal civilian employees. the discrimination is particularly blatant because the present section 8524 of title 5 is directly traceable to a similar provision. section 1505 of the social security act. 42 u.s.c.. section 1365. which in its original form. did apply to federal civilian employees. in 1960 by public law 86442. section 1. effective with benefit years commencing after april 22. 1960. this provision was repealed. insofar as federal civilian employees were concerned. but in section 2 of the same bill a special provision was inserted continuing it in effect for exservicemen. the bill was subject to very little debate in either the house or the senate and although the provision continuing section 1365 in effect for exservicemen was added as an amendment by the house committee. neither the committee reports on the bill  the debates offer any explanation of the difference in treatment accorded under the bill to exservicemen and federal civilian employees. the purpose of public law 86442. as set forth in the committee reports and on the floor of the house and senate at the time it was considered was simply to leave it up to each individual state to decide whether or  accrued leave payments would be considered as wages for the purpose of determining eligibility for unemployment compensation. i am informed by the legislative reference service and the department of labor that approximately 26 states do  treat accrued leave payments as wages for the purpose of determining an exservicemans eligibility for unemployment compensation. since unemployment insurance for both excivilian employees of the federal government and exservicemen are administered in the same manner. that is. through the states. i can see any reason why this matter should be left to the states in the case of excivilian employees of the federal government but  in the case of exservicemen. the problem caused by this disparity in treatment obviously has become more acute. with the recent expansion of our armed forces and the consequent increase in the number of servicemen who are . and will in the future. upon their discharge. be seeking private employment. several committees of the congress have already begun to consider various measures designed to facilitate the transition from service in the armed forces to private employment. clearly. at the very least. our unemployment compensation policy should insure that exservicemen are  discriminated against in obtaining unemployment compensation when they are unsuccessful in obtaining immediate employment upon their discharge. that is the purpose of the bill i have introduced today. i emphasize that this bill would  compel any state to disregard accrued leave payments received by servicemen in determining eligibility for unemployment compensation. it merely allows the states to decide for themselves whether or  to do so. as in the case of federal civilian employees. the department of labor informs me that the total cost of this bill based on current experience would  exceed $2.5 million per year.
. the need for the type of comprehensive review and evaluation which the commission would undertake should be apparent to anyone with even a cursory kledge of workmens compensation today. the fact is that although a few states like my own state of new york do have adequate workmens compensation laws. in most states workmens compensation is. in at least some respects. shockingly inadequate. workmens compensation laws were devised to assure that benefits would be paid to workers injured on the job and that they would be paid promptly. with a minimum of legal formality. and without the necessity of fixing the blame for the injury. the fundamental premise of workmens compensation laws is that the cost of workrelated injuries is to be considered part of the cost of production. workmens compensation laws were and are a modern industrial democracys answer to the obstacles. such as the fellow servant and assumption of risk rules. established by the common law to bar recovery by injured workers from their employers. in return for the elimination of the doubtful. but potentially unlimited. liability of an employer under the common law. workmens compensation laws substituted the limited. but sure. remedy of compensation in the form of medical and disability benefits. the original intent of workmens compensation laws was to strike a fair balance between the legitimate claims of injured employees and the potential liability of employers. there is. however. grave doubt that this balance is being struck fairly today. workmens compensation laws simply have  kept pace with the development of the ecoy. the system. as it is operating today. simply does  meet contemporary needs. and it is high time that a careful review and analysis be made of the way the current system is operating. and of possible methods of improving it. i recognize that the charge i have made today is a most serious one. however. my doubts as to the adequacy of the present workmans compensation system are based on objective yardsticks. these are available in the form of the standards for workmens compensation laws which have been developed in recent years by the department of labor. the council of state governments. and the international association of industrial accident boards and commissions. the minimum standards developed by these highly respected agencies are in many respects quite similar. an analysis of bulletin  212 issued by the department of labor. as revised up to 1967. which compares the major provisions of state workmens compensation with the standards recommended by the federal bureau of labor standards. shows a compliance ratio of only about 45 percent. i ask unanimous consent that a table showing the precise extent of compliance with the labor departments recommended standards be inserted in the record at this point.
. in the area of permanent disability. the figures tell an equally disquieting story. in four states the maximum permanent disability benefit is less than $40 a week. in 13 states the maximum permanent disability benefit is between $40 and $50 per week. furthermore. absolute limitations on the amount of permanent disability benefitsalmost a contradiction in termsare still common. 19 states have such limitations. with most of them below $20.000 and some as low as $12.500. only six states meet the department of labors recommendation of an actual. rather than merely theoretical maximum of 66% percent of average wages for temporary total disability. a chart prepared by the chamber of commerce and included in its most recent analysis of workmens compensation laws reveals the picture at a glance. and i ask that it be included in my remarks at this point.
 sent us at the opening of this session of congress in 1967. it had the endorsement of the administration. many civil rights groups. the labor movement. and representatives of many state civil rights commissions. let me point out that 38 of the 50 states  have on their books some form of fair employment laws. this should  really be a controversial bill because it gives the equal employment opportunity commission the powers  enjoyed by many other federal agencies. including the national labor relations board and at least 31 state fair employment practice agencies. the bill was subjected to a good deal of debate in our committee. was finally amended considerably. and reported by the committee.  it is on the calendar as s. 3465. i am most disturbed by reports which i have heard. and which were carried in the press. that. because of a threat of a filibuster. the administration may decidei emphasize the word "may." because i am addressing a plea to the administrationto pass over the bill in this congress.
 to support $75 million last summer and why it is impossible this summer. when the whole country has just experienced the aftermath of the assassination of martin luther king. jr.. and when we have had still aher. the tragic assassination of robert f. kennedy. my own new york colleague. and yet the assumption is made that this summer is  going to be like last summer. that it is going to be a halcyon beauty of a summer and we do  have to make a special effort. as we did last summer. as inadequate as it was. to get the kids off the streets. the administration became worried about its position in this matter. so by a feat of legerdemain. which has been denced by newspapers from coast to coast. they scrounged and cut down programs. such as the neighborhood youth corps. the in- and outofschool program. from which they took $15 million. then they cut the hours of work these young people would do this summer. and they cut the number of weeks they would work this summer. so they came up with a program which would technically give the same number of jobs as were given last summer. but with these costs. the secretary of labor testified in the last few weeks before the committee on labor and public welfare. of which i am a member. that the efficacy of the program was diminished by the percentage by which they reduced hours and weeks. to wit. 32 percent. in other words. it would be that much less effective. if you want to restore to the permanent programs what has been taken from them. then restore these hours and wages. it would take $52.1 million rather than $75 million which the senate voted. and for which i contended.
the senator spoke of the cupboard getting bare. there is a measure on the calendar from the committee on labor and public welfare. of which i am a ranking member. relating to the revision of authority of the fair employment practices commissionthat is. eeoc. i wonder whether the majority leader has any thoughts about when that might be brought up.
. in view of the answers of the chairman of the committee. given with the tact and statesmanship to which i have become accustomed in working with him so frequently on the committee on labor and public welfare. i do  see any necessity for any amendments. i think the chairman has very completely elucidated what is contained in the bill. i think it will be most helpful in administering the bill. and i am very grateful to him.
i should like to finish my thought. i have the deep feeling. . that the committee on agriculture. as we ki am told. anyhow. i do  k this as a fact. but i expect it--is going to start hearings on this matter within the next few days we have idea as to when anything like this can be reported. we have idea whether. if reported. it can be considered. inasmuch as it is tied directly into education. my colleagues and i felt that this was the time in which to raise it and to see if. as was done in the other body. something could be done about it . in the house. it was done on motion of representative perkins. the chairman of the committee on labor and education
. during the second session of the 90th congress. the miityrepublicanmembers of the committee on labor and public welfare. of which i am the ranking miity member. made an outstanding record of constructive contributions and effective legislative achievement. in a number of instances. miity members originated the central concepts around which major legislation wag built. these include contributions by every member of the miity and cover all areas of activity of * the committee. i ask unanimous consent that a report i have prepared be printed in the record.
. i served for 8 years in the house of representatives. which has a public address system. often. interesting and vigorous debate on the senate floor is completely missed by the members of the press and the people in the gallery. indeed. we have had some rather striking examples of misquotation attributable only to the fact that the members of the press. in the gallery. could  hear what was said on the floor. it is a strange aaly. and even a little too old fashioned for the senate itself. that in this age of electronics we should labor under such a disadvantage. often. senators crowd down to the well because they can hear what is being said about the next days calendar or what the presiding officer is saying. at each senators desk is room for a small microphone. and the controls can be applied easily. for example. the microphone can be placed in the inkwell. which recalls the days of the quill pen. the inkwells. of course. are longer used. when i began my service in the senate. in 1957. as a member of the committee on rules and administration. i tried to bring about this reform. the rules committee asked the architect of the capitol to look into its feasibility. the staff of the committee made a survey of the then 96 members and found a considerable number who were interested in the change. however. a considerable number were opposed to any change at all. but principally because of technical difficultiesthat is. the thought then that it would result in a great number of unsightly microphones on the desks. in the senate. we do  speak in the well. but speak at our desks.
 of the council. and gerald r. waters. sr.. director of the project. was originally funded by a grant from the department of health. education. and welfare. supplemented by matching funds from the new york city central labor council. it utilized the skills of both a professional staff and. of volunteer counselors from local unions throughout new york city. nearly 4.000 workers have been reached through this program. and its success in helping otherwise unemployable persons find and hold jobs led to the decision of the council to continue the project through union contributions when the federal demonstration funds run out. the officials of the new york city central labor council and the local union volunteers who have made project rehab such a tremendous achievement are examples of the great public spirit of the trade union movement in new york city. i ask unanimous consent that several articles describing project rehab be printed at this point in the record.
. the lithuanian people struggled to liberate their land. during that struggle. 30.000 lithuanians died for the cause of selfdetermination. and hundreds of thousands were deported to the soviet union. where they died wholesale in forced labor camps. but the lithuanian people continue to yearn for freedom and the establishment of an independent lithuanian state. as consistent supporters of the principle of selfdetermination. americans ackledge the commemoration of the 51st anniversary of the declaration of lithuanian independence. to demonstrate our sincere hope that liberty. so long repressed in lithuania. will rise to fulfillment again.
. the measure could have social and ecoic benefits far out of proportion of its costs. the veterans employment and relocation assistance act builds upon and seeks to utilize the skills which a young veteran has acquired while in military service. and takes advantage of the fact that these men are more mobile than most of the unemployed and more mobile than they probably ever have been or ever will be again in their lives. this program should promote labor mobility and thereby ease skill shortages wherever they exist. finally. for those veterans who were drafted or enlisted out of our urban ghettos. whose ghetto living experience has been interrupted by military service. this program would seek to reach them before they have returned to areas of high unemployment and would give them the opportunity. if they wished. of utilizing their recently acquired skills and training in areas in which those skills and training will be relevant. certainly. meaningful employment for our veterans should be a high objective of the society for which they have fought. cxv246part 3 i ask unanimous consent that the bill be printed at this point in the record.
. a compliance ratio as low as 45 percent is indeed shocking. but it is even more shocking to realize that if the comparison were made with the model workmens compensation law recently published by the council of state governments. the percentage would be much lower. .2o 2:2._ a x a a x a x a x x a x a a a a a a a x x x x a a x a a a a x a x a x x a x a x x a a a x a a a x x a a a x x x a a x a x a a x a a a a a a a x a x x x x x x a a a a a x a x x a x a a a a a a a x a a a x x a a x x x x a x x x x a x x x x x a x a x x x x x x x a x x x x a x x x x x x a x x x a a x x x a x x x x a x x a a a xl x xl a a x a a a a a a a x1 x x a x a a x a x x a a xl a x x a x a a x a a x a a a a x x x x a a brief analysis of the subjects which the commission would be directed to study under my proposal. many of which are keyed to the minimum standards developed by the department of labor. the council of state governments and the iaiabc will indicate the critical nature of the problem. as it exists today. a x a a x a a a a a a x a a x a a a a a x a x a a x x x a x a a x a a a x a a x x x a x x x a x x a x x a a a a a a x x a a a x a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a x a x x a a a a a a a a a x x a x x a a a x a x a a a a a a a a a a x a a a a a a a a x a x a x a x a a x a x a a a a a a x a x x a a a x x a x x x x x x a x x x x a a a a x a x x x a x a x x a x a x a x x a x x x x a a a a x a a x x x a a a x a a a x a a a a x a a a a a a a x a x a a a a a a a a x a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a a first. the amount and duration of permanent and temporary disability benefits. together with medical benefits. the disability benefits payable under workmans compensation are. of course. the heart of the system. yet.-in all but a few states the disability benefits payable to an injured worker are grossly inadequate. furthermore. here in contrast to other areas in which slow. but more or less steady progress toward recommended standards has been made. we have actually been losing ground. to take just one example. the shocking fact is that although the absolute amount of disability benefits has increased between 1940 and 1966 the ratio of maximum weekly temporary total disability benefits to average weekly wages has. by and large. fallen drastically in that period. that ratio has actually decreased in less than 44 states. if the comparison is made between 1958 and 1966 the results are likewise unsatisfactory. in that period in only half the states did this percentage increase. in the other half it continued to decrease. the sorry tale is told completely in a table. which i ask be included in my remarks at this point.
. in the area of permanent disability the figures tell an equally disquieting story. in four states the maximum permanent disability benefit is less than $40 a week. in 13 states the maximum permanent disability benefit is between $40 and $50 per week. furthermore absolute limitations on the amount of permanent disability benefitsalmost a contradiction in termsare still common. 19 states have such limitations. with most of them below $20.000 and some as low as $12.500. only six states meet the department of labors recommendation of an actual. rather than merely theoretical maximum of 66% percent of average wages for temporary total disability. a chart prepared by the chamber of commerce and included in its most recent analysis of workmens compensation laws reveals the picture at a glance. and i ask that it be included in my remarks at this point.
. i stated on the floor last year that my purpose in calling for the establishment of a federal commission to study workmens compensation laws is  to federalize the state workmens compensation system. i still hold to that view and for that reason am  prepared to embrace the proposal transmitted to us by former secretary wirtz. at the very least. it seems to me. serious consideration of any such proposal should await the completion of the comprehensive study called for by my bill. this is the same proposal which i introduced during the last congress. first as an amendment to s. 2864. the occupational health and safety bill. and later. with the cosponsorship of the distinguished chairman of the committee on labor and public welfare. who was then chairman of its labor subcommittee. senator yarborough. as a separate bill. s. 3951. i ask unanimous consent that the bill be printed in the record.
. military personnelparticularly our men who are stationed abroad and on duty in combat areas--have opportunity to take leave except at the discretion of the military service. in addition. these members of our armed forces have practically opportunity to seek other employment before they are released from active service. this is  true as to their counterparts in federal civilian employment. however. 5 u.s.c. 8524 provides that for purposes of determining the eligibility of exservicemen for unemployment compensation. any payment for unused accrued leave received at the termination of service is considered to continue the federal service and to constitute federal wages during the period after termination of service with respect to which the payment was made. the effect of this section is to disqualify exservicemen from receiving unemployment compensation during the period covered by any payment for accrued leave they may have received upon separation. even if the state law under which compensation is claimed would otherwise permit payment. this provision unfairly discriminates against exservicemen since similar disqualification is imposed on federal civilian employees. with the increase in the number of servicemen who will upon discharge be seeking private employment. the problem caused by this disparity in treatment obviously has become more acute. several committees of the congress have already begun to consider various measures designed to facilitate the transition from service in the armed forces to private employment. clearly. at the very least. our unemployment compensation policy should insure that exservicemen are  discriminated against in obtaining unemployment compensation when they are unsuccessful in obtaining immediate employment upon their discharge. therefore. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to repeal 5 u.s.c. 8524. this bill would  compel any state to disregard accrued leave payments received by servicemen in determining eligibility for unemployment compensation. it merely allows the states to decide for themselves whether or  to do so. as in the case of federal civilian employees. the department of labor informs me that the total cost of this bill based on current experience would  exceed $2.5 million per year. the american legion recently considered and approved a resolution which would accord discharged servicemen the same rights as federal employees under unemployment compensation benefits. i understand that my bill will satisfy this american legion resolution 308. which provides as follows: whereas. military personnel released from active duty by the various services receive accrued leave and payment therefore on being terminated from active service. and whereas. military personnel released from active service are prevented from receiving unemployment compensation until after their accrued terminal leave has expired. and whereas. civilian employees on being terminated from governmental service with accrued leave may draw unemployment compensation immediately on termination of employment and before accrued leave has expired. and whereas. there are on the order of 600.000 military personnel being released from active duty annually under current situation. and whereas. military personnel. particularly in foreign service and combat service have opportunity to take leave except at the discretion of the military services and being outside the continental limits of the united states have opportunity to seek other employment before being released from active service as do their counterpart in the civilian employment. . therefore. be it resolved. by the american legion in national convention assembled in new orleans. louisiana. september 10. 11. 12. 1968. that the american legion urge the congress of the united states to amend the social security act to permit military personnel upon separation from the military service to immediately become eligible to apply for and to receive unemployment compensation benefits in the same manner as their counterpart in the civilian employment of the governmental services. there is clear discrimination with federal civilian employees because the present section 8524 of title 5 is directly traceable to a similar provision. section 1505 of the social security act. 42 u.s.c.. section 1365. which in its original form did apply to federal civilian employees. in 1960 by public law 86442. section 1. effective with benefit years commencing after april 22. 1960. this provision was repealed. insofar as federal civilian employees were concerned. but in section 2 of the same bill a special provision was inserted continuing it in effect for exservicemen. the bill was subject to very little debate in either the house or the senate and although the provision continuing section 1365 in effect for exservicemen was added as an amendment by the house committee. neither the committee reports on the bill  the debates offer any explanation of the difference in treatment accorded under the bill to exservicemen and federal civilian employees. the purpose of public law 86442. as set forth in the committee reports and on the floor of the house and senate at the time it was considered was simply to leave it up to each individual state to decide whether or  accrued leave payments would be considered as wages for the purpose of determining eligibility for unemployment compensation. i am informed by the legislative reference service and the department of labor that approximately 26 states do  treat accrued leave payments as wages for the purpose of determining an exservicemans eligibility for unemployment compensation. since unemployment insurance for both excivilian employees of the federal government and exservicemen are administered in the same manner. that is. through the states. i can see any reason why this matter should be left to the states in the case of excivilian employees of the federal government but  in the case of exservicemen.
. a recent aflcio news editorial aptly labeled senate rule xxii "the tyranny of the miity." it also reminds us that even the small modification of the rule sought in this congress was turned back. the labor movement has supported every effort to reform the filibuster ruleand i am sure that the labor movement will continue its support until the battle for democratic principle is wonas it surely will be. i think that editorial should have the widest possible circulation. for that reason. i ask unanimous consent that the editorial. entitled "the senates separate way." be printed at this point in the record.
. i have recently become aware of a group within the u.s. department of labor which has initiated a series of constructive programs of youth action. we are constantly hearing about youths todayboth black and whitewho have decided that it is impossible to reform this society by peaceful means and so have turned to violence. we sometimes forget that there are many more youths who do  make the headlines who have  yet despaired of the system. one of these groups is the coalition for youth action. which is comprised of department of labor management interns and other young professionals. this group was organized last year by then secretary of labor w. willard wirtz. and the 1967 intern class for two major reasons: first. to give the interns meaningful experience during part of their yearlong training period. and. second. to help make the federal government more responsive to the voice of youth. to accomplish this. the interns devised three program areas. received funds from the secretary. and exercised programmatic and administrative control over the grants they gave. the three programs were epiceffective partnerships in communities. sagastarting a generation alliance. and linclearning in new curriculum. epic projects were grants to coalitions of campus and ghetto youth working together to determine and solve community problems. saga coordinated the use of volunteers from campuses and communities with ongoing manpower programschiefly theemployment services youth opportunity centers. and linc enabled colleges and universities to work with students to establish courses relating to manpower problems. with credit given for relevant field work. aher program has been added by this years interns. offering administrative and management training to ghetto youth. i understand that most of their projects have been fairly successful. but i think that the idea of youth involvement in the government on a decisionmaking level may even be more important than the actual work output. as long as that output is satisfactory. this effort shows young people that there are those in government who are willing to listen and willing to give them a chance. perhaps if there were more groups like the coalition for youth action in the government. more youths would work for the peaceful reform of the system.
. mr. irving stern. director of organization of local 342 of the amalgamated meat cutters and retail food store employees union of th america. recently spoke before the 22d annual conference of the financial analysts federation on what labor expects from the ecoy in the coming decade. mr. sterns speech is most interesting as a forecast of what we can expect to be the concerns of the labor movement in the coming years and deserves wide public attention. i therefore ask unanimous consent that mr. sterns speech be printed in the record.
. the committee on labor law of the federal bar council has recently issued three reports on important labormanagement subjects. the reports cover the topics of sweetheart contracts. the problem of defamation and freedom of expression in labor campaigns and labor relations in profit hospitals. the latter report is particularly timely in view of the dispute  in progress in charleston. s.c. i ask unanimous consent that these three reports be printed in the record.
. in light of the situation which we  see at the end of the day. it is unlikely that the amendment i have submitted. to increase the supplemental amount available to the neighborhood youth corps to $55 million. can be considered tonight. i shall offer this amendment tomorrow. with the support of a number of senators. however there are some remarks which senators might find useful to have in the record. together with a letter from the u.s. conference of mayors. and a schedule showing precisely why at least $55 million is necessary. i might say preliminarily that this amount was proposed to the appropriations committee. i wish to express my gratitude to the senator from new jersey -and i believe that the senator from rhode island was also of considerable help in the appropriations committeefor putting the matter before that committee and for being successful to the extent of $71/2 million. which was  in the bill. and which represents an amount which even the labor department agrees we need and can be very fruitfully and effectively spent. because i think it is critically important. i would first express by thanks and appreciation for that. and explain to senator case that i would  have offered this amendment at all were it  for the very strong support coming from the u.s. conference of mayors. if we expect to cool off what could be a very hot summer. i feel that we had better listen to them and senators from states with big cities and smaller communities with similar needs should at least hear the argument and look at the figures and have an opportunity to vote on the needed amount. according to the conference of mayors. rather than just letting it go by default. this does  take one thing away from the magnificent serviceand the country should be very gratefulrendered by senator case and senator pastore in the appropriations committee.
. i ask unanimous consent that the bill be referred to the committee on labor and public welfare. and as a part of the same unanimousconsent request. i ask unanimous consent that. should the committee on commerce wish to review the bill after the committee on labor and public welfare shall have reported it out. then the committee on commerce may have that right.
the important point. . we should  forget that this still is targeted at 1.5 million youththis compares to $126.676.730 and 340.043 slots avallable for summer nyc last year and represents an increase over last year of approximately 20.000 job opportunities. then they go on with the details of how the program operates. et cetera. i add to my quotation this paragraph. which i think is very important: the program becomes less flexible as the commencement of operations approachesstaff has been hired. arrangements for work stations. supervision. etc. have been made. however. the labor department estimates that meaningful work opportunities could be provided- for the additional 20.000 youth if funds were made available in late june. four thousand of these additional slots would provide the same level of opportunities asin the 1968 summer and the additional 16.000 would provide for somei emphasize that word "some"of the pressing needs of particularly the larger urban areas. we have obtained from the department of labor a breakdown of where these 20.000 or 24.000 opportunities would be provided. assuming that we got the $10 million. that $10 million. of course. is  in the billthe bill calls for only $7.5 million. i should like to make just a few comparisons. if i may. in some of the most difficult and congested regions of the country. let us take. for example. the new york region. which is mine. the labor departments program would provide .for 5.413 slots for new york. new jersey. the virgin islands. and puerto rico. it is interesting that the estimate of the mayors for the city of new york comes to 21.621 slots. or four times what is requested for the whole region. this is quite apart from the needs of newark. trenton. buffalo. and other critical new york areas. in the new england region. the 24.000 slots would provide for 362 additional slots. and yet boston alone. according to the certification of its mayor. needs that the mayors have themselves been moving up their targeting is shown by the fact that in their resolution they seek $100 million while i am seeking $55 million. also i call attention to the experience of the senator from missouri
. i think the total amount. with the $10 million. would be $149.500.000. which would provide about 360.000 slots for summer jobs. my argument. just so the senator gets the picturei am  trying to be forensic about itis that we have got a target of a million and a half to shoot at. the labor department certifies that. my amendment was based upon the findings. city by city. of the u.s. conference of mayors. which gives us a figure for effective usejust the same catechism as that of the labor departmentof 136.500 slots. as against their 24.000 slots. making a total of $55 million instead of their $10 million. that is the issue.
. i can understand the desire of the chairman and the ranking miity member of the committee to stay with the figures which they have brought to the senate and  have them increased. i have three answers to the points which have been made. first. as to the overall total with respect to the feeding programs. surely $10 million is  anything when compared to $1.243.332.000. that is why one has to move item by item in respect to this matter and analyze what is and is  being done. the $10 million figure is exactly the same as advanced last year on this particular program. withstanding the fact that this program is growing by leaps and bounds. the program got started just last year. we can understand that there is a carryover. if the senate were to appropriate $20.000.000. there would be a totally different view of this program. i have doubt of the good faith of my colleagues. i would be the first to affirm it. but we direct this amendment to the frame of reference in which the program is handled within the department of agriculture and in which it goes to the country. thus. my first answer is that this program has shown such growth as to deserve an increase in the program as recommended by the previous administration. second. we are. ourselves. enforcing under the social security act. title iv. a requirement which would place infinitely more children in the daycare centers. we are  insisting that the afdc mothers put the children in daycare centers. that will very materially increase the child day care population. third. i felt that it was desirable  to press the amendment on special milk. in view of the fact that the senator from florida and the senator from nebraska had a passionate devotion to the section 32 equation. so i offered the pending amendment in the hope of thereby wrapping up everything i had to say and to propose in one package.
. i have desire to raise a capricious question. but with respect to this amendment. it seems on its face to be inuous. it does puzzle me. and i would like to hear the answer of the author of the amendment and the answers of the people who will manage the measure in conference. the senator from florida . and the senator from nebraska . with respect to this matter. as i read it. and interpret its meaning. if the senators will address themselves to the language on page 20. lines 6 through 17. inclusive. they will find that this language deals with certain moneys which are authorized.  for individuals. but for an area in which individuals live. in other words. it is money for an area. in which individuals live. which includes "needy children and low income persons whom the secretary determines to be suffering. through fault of their own. from general and continued hunger resulting from insufficient food." the secretary can dip into this $100 million which is provided for at the top of that page for additional direct distribution or other programs in such area. whether or  it is under the food stamp program or direct food distribution. so he is determining whether that area deserves an additional distribution program. this is strictly a reliefofhunger proposition. then. in reading further. he is to decide that in that areai would assume although it does  say sothere are egh needy children and lowincome persons who. through fault of their own. suffer from general and continued hunger resulting from insufficient food. and whether he should put in a program directly. moving over the heads of local and city officials. and so forth. then. in making such determination. whether he is in that kind of area. he is determining the nature of the area as to certain conditions with respect to needy children and lowincome people in that area. and in making that determination he must decide questions such as the age. income. location and income of parents. if a mi. that is rather indefinite language but i assume he must look at the income of the parents as well in order to determine if this is a suitable area for him to go into. the senator from iowa would add "resources" to the income of the parents. by that addition i am sure he means furniture. fixtures. money in the bank. and so forth. i would assume that if they have a few iron bedsteads that would  disqualify the area. however. that is  what concerns me. i am worried about this situation. if it is an area determination how can the secretary arrive at the resources. he can determine age. income. and location figures. income would include the income of the parents because that is a census figure. however. with respect to a figure for resources. i do  k where that would exist. by including "resources" will we strip the secretary from making any determination to put in an additional program because we are giving him a standard he could  possibly meet. i am  raising this question because i am trying to defeat the senators amendment. but i would like to k what the senator has in mind and how to meet the questions i raised.
. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the revised philadelphia plan be printed in the record. and refer to the fact that the solicitor of the department of labor has submitted an extensive memorandum which refers to the legal basis for the plan. the memorandum is extensive and detailed. i do  wish to impose the added cost of including it as part of the record and therefore wish to refer to it as being available for consultation in my office. or in the departments of labor or justice. it can easily be obtained by any member of the senate by asking for it. thus. i would hope that any member who wishes to look it over will do that. rather than for me to have it printed in the record.
. the committee on labor law of the federal bar council has recently issued a thoughtful analysis of legislation to bring farmworkers under the national labor relations act. and the recommendations for a solution to this vexing problem. i believe the committees analysis and recommendations should be of interest to all who are concerned with this problem. certainly i believe the subcommittee on labor. which has been holding hearings on s. 8. which would extend the national labor relations act to farmworkers. will find the committees work most helpful. i ask unanimous consent that the committee analysis and recommendations be printed in the record.
. in wiring the clearinghouses. senator pell and i expressed our confidence that shortly after the conclusion of the labor day recess congress would enact the necessary legislation to provide for incentive payments to lending institutions to meet the problems caused them by recordhigh interest rates. the house of representatives on monday. september 15. approved its version of the bill. and it is anticipated that the first conference session will convene within a week. i am hopeful that the housesenate differences will be resolved expeditiously.
but the $40.000 home is a multifamily home. this limit is  to onefamily homes. that goes only to the $32.500 home. secondly. the tradition in this country is that if more houses are made available. more houses for lower income groups are made available. and the pressure against the ceiling. when there is a ceiling. is useful in making available a greater stock of housing.
. a very interesting article about the activities of the senator from new jersey . in respect of his work in the special committee on aging. of which he is chairman. appeared in the new york sunday news magazine issue of october 12. 1969. as he is my colleague on the committee on labor and public welfare. i ask unanimous consent that the article be printed at this point in the record.
. i said when i began that i was speaking in a most intimate way to the senate. and i feel that way. i k it is very public. and there is hing secret here. but in the sense of personal feeling and personal warmth on the subject. i did wish to communicate this point of view to the senate. to give just one example that happens to be. in my judgment. one of the most relevant. in march of 1967 there were 412 million working mothers with children under 6 years of age. there are today only 531.000 spaces in licensed daycare centers and family homes which are equivalent to daycare centersroughly speaking. as senators can see. but between 10 and 12 percent of the need is actually being served. those of us who have had experience in government k that it takes time to get organized for a job. that when you change over an agency such as the oeo. there is a time lag in adjusting it to its new responsibilities. but i believe 1970 gives adequate time for that process to take place. and that in 1971 we ought to begin to endeavor to more nearly accomplish many of these things which need to be done. that is the purpose of the addons and that is why i feel constrained to vote " on the amendment proposed by the senator from colorado.
. as the senator ks. i feel very much as he does about this matter. however. i am worried about one thing. would the senator consent to some limitation on the taxable income of people to be eligible for this benefit. i have always worried about the fact that a large number of taxpayers with high incomes get a benefit which they do  need. could we put some limitation in this provision-$10.000 or $15.000on income as the income limit for which this would be available.
i do  think we have to wait that long. would the senator be sympathetic. assuming that the amendment is adoptedand i hope it will beto the consideration in conference of what if any equity restrictions ought to be placed on it. it may be quite a finite question. for example. the senator from delaware just pointed out that in the case of catastrophic illness. the cost may be so great that a limitation based upon an income level may have to be adjusted to that kind of catastrophe. but if i could feel that the senator is sympathetic to the idea of that kind of consideration. i think we could leave the rest to the conferees.
. i move my social security amendment. and disability insurance benefits to reconsider the vote by which the the presiding officer. the sec. 2. (a) section 215 (a) of the social amendment was agreed to. amendment wil be stated. security act is amended by striking out the
 does that. but when we appoint something in legislation. then it seems to have a cachet. a quality of standing before the country. that makes us as well as the country sit up and take ice. this subject is so deep and important that i hope the senator will understand that in suggesting a commission. it is with kledge of the power of the committee. i have great admiration for the committee. it is one of the committees. for example. that acts without subcommittees. that is very unusual and very commendable. in the labor and public welfare committee. on which i serve. that can be done. there is just too much work. i hope the senator will understand that in proposing the amendment in this way. i am trying to marshal the finest brains. under the best conditions. to give us the benefit of their judgment on really basic social questions which has been raisedquite properlyby this whole body of the united states. we have taken these areas for granted too longin fact i believe that there has  been a study as comprehensive as this in the 50 years we have had income tax legislation.  i want to really dig into it. and this is the best way to do it. in my judgment.
. the purpose of this amendment is to deal with a situation relating to housing cooperatives whereby the individual tenantstockholder may deduct from his income a proportion of interest and local taxes. in order to qualify. 80 percent of the income of the cooperative must derive from such individual tenantstockholder. in my state. and it may be true in other states. we have a situation in which some of the income of cooperatives comes from the state housing authority. which then subleases apartments to low- and moderateincome families. in such cases. income does  derive from individuals. as called for by present law. but from a governmental entityto wit. the state of new york. the purpose of this amendment is to extend to individual tenantstockholders in cooperative projects which do  meet the 80percent test because of income from a property the same privileges which they should have were the state or governmental entity which owns apartments in that building an individualthe same deductions as are generally available in cooperative housing. i hope very much that the equity of this proposition may be evident to the committee and that it may accept this amendment. the assistant secretary of the treasury. to whom we submitted the matter. has indicated a favorable attitude. and i have a letter from edwin s. cohen. assistant secretary. dated october 1. so indicating.
i am also concerned with the situation which arises where a membership organization of the type described above falls short of meeting the public support test. this may occur in the case of organizations which are regularly funded with large grants from substantial contributors or. occasionally. in the case of an organization that receives an unusual grant or bequest from a source. while i recognize that the finance committee expects appropriate provisions to be incorporated in the treasurys regulations which will prevent organizations that find themselves in the latter situation from being treated as private foundations. it appears the statute also provides aher type of solution. as i read proposed section 509 (a) (3). i wonder whether membership organizations which fail to qualify under the public support test because they have insufficient public support as compared to support from qualified persons. may nevertheless remain outside the definition of private foundation. section 509(a) (3) states that an organization which is operated exclusively for the benefit of or in connection with a public charity and is  controlled by disqualified persons will also be excluded from private foundation status. would  this section be applicable if an organization with two sources of supportsay. membership dues and other income from public sources amounting to 25 percent of its total support and grants from disqualified persons amounting to 75 percentwere to transfer the activities that were mally funded by the membership dues and other public sources into a separate charitable organization which would thereafter be the recipient of all such grants. assuming that neither organization is controlled by disqualified persons and that the new one is operated in connection with and to carry out the same purposes as the original organization. both organizations would literally be excluded from the private foundation definitionthe new organization because all of its income would be from public sourcesmembership duesand the original organization because it has been organized and operated to carry out the same purposes as the new organization.
. could the senator tell usand i am  going to press him because he may  be preparedwhether anything was done about the vexing problem of cost limit in connection with the special problems of low and moderate income housing.
. i ask unanimous consent that the amendment be printed as a part of my remarks. and also that it be printed under the rule and referred to the committee on labor and public welfare. where the bill is pending.
. during the first session of the 91st congress. the miityrepublicanmembers of the committee on labor and public welfare. of which i am the ranking miity member. made a distinctive record of constructive contributions and effective legislative achievement. in a number of instances. the central concepts around which major legislation was built originated on the miity side. these contributions cover all areas of activity of the committee. i ask unanimous consent that a report i have prepared be printed in the record.
. i am a cosponsor of the amendment. this amendment originates from a provision which the latesenator robert kennedy and i had included in the education professions development act of 1967 that was reported by the senate subcommittee on education. we had quite a problem with the house of representatives at that time which would accept amendments at all and. hence. it was stricken without prejudice in the full senate committee on labor and public welfare. i think this is a very sound idea and very essential. especially. in the field of correction of young offenders. i hope the senator from rhode island will see fit to accept the amendment. especially as the junior senator from new york has  taken out of the amendment the special funding so that it is fundable under the general provisions of the teacher corps act. i hope very much this amendment may be accepted with that change.
i am the ranking member of the labor subcommittee. the senator from new jersey is the chairman. he has actually undertaken a set of hearings with respect to the problems which arise and could affect labor law in this situation which is so tragic. including. as the senator ks. the brutal killing of the opponent of the winner in that particular race. there has been some concern on my part. which i express as to the quasijudicial activities of the secretary of labor. who has a limited time in which to report in respect to complaints made to him about that election. and even the danger of prejudice to a murder indictment in respect of the terrible thing which was the sequel to the election. but i felt. as obviously the senator from michigan implies. that bearing in mind the needed taste and discretion which these injunctions that i gave of record require. the overriding public interest was. etheless. for the most complete. possible scrutiny. the senator from new jersey shows every intention of doing that. i join him in it. i feel that we will push along on that line. should we run into any problem. i assure the senator. i would urge the senator from new jersey  to be stopped by the absence of necessary resources or of personnel. we will honestly. if we feel we must. come back to the senate. through the rules committee. to lay our case before it. but. as the matter stands . that has actually been done. there have been two hearings and the committee shows every sign of going forward with it.
. i have desire to debate it at length i am the ranking miity member of the committee. i favor the bill. it could go back with the idea of its being killed. and that i would be against. in that event. i would wish to be heard at some length on the subject. or. it could go back with the idea of it being reviewed by the committee on labor and public welfare on the point that i think quite properly has been made by the senator from michigan. which is that there should be a relationship between this kind of joint promotion fund and efficiency. ecoy. and modernization in the construction industry. the senator made other points and other senators also made other points. but that point. i think. has a real impact. because that is what we are worried about in the construction field. i think with respect to the senators point about the wage scale. whether pro or con. whether one takes a view for or against that. there is question about the fact that there have been very material increases and that they must be compensated for if the cost of construction is to be brought down so that moderate income housing may be constructed. i would like very much to explore the senators mind on that score to see if we understand each other. if we do. i would have objection to having aher go at it in the committee.
. as to the propriety of the $4.000 minimum standard. i call the attention of the senate to the figures from the cost of living index for the spring of 1969. which were published recently. by the bureau of labor statistics. i ask unanimous consent that the table attached to that study together with the material issued by the bureau of labor statistics. dated december 1969. be printed at this point in the record.
. it does  seem to me that we are doing anything but what we ought to do. in raising our sites. even though we can by appropriations meet the goal. at least it gives us a real aspiration. instead of being limited in both aspiration and reality to the exigencies which we find in respect of appropriations. in short. we are just kidding ourselves when we provide free lunch for half the children. they are  the only ones who need free lunch. we are merely providing free lunch for onethird of the children who need it. it seems to me that the one thing that the committee on agriculture would have done would have been to at least set a criteria for the country which would satisfy the country and give them a realistic approach. instead of an artificial approach as we are doing today. there is an absence of a national standard. finally. with respect to the matter of the affidavit. we show. that by the adoption by the committee of the amendment which is intended to prevent overt identification. it seems to me that we obtain consistency. as i stated in my preceding remarks we need the use of the affidavit technique. it is just as invidious to have identification of the family as it is to have identification of the child. if we are inhibiting identification for the child. then it seems to me to be correlative that we inhibit identification through the case worker technique. we k how this has been used to discourage families from seeking free and reducedprice lunches. in many instances. the only way to get it was to submit to this kind of an investigation. the criteria i have outlined in this amendment gives us a floor which befits the national dignity and the national intention. the general drift of the amendments which have been proposed here has been directed toward the end of maintaining a floor upon which the program can then restwith plenty of room for ination above that. it seems to me that this amendment is absolutely essential. before i conclude my remarks i would like to make one other point about my own state because so often when we debate things here. because new york is a most vital and active state. the question is asked. "what is new york doing."
i can assure the miity leader that. in my judgment. the committee is determinedthey are  asking for a pledgeto deal substantively with the issue. it recognizes the paramount national interest in the operation of the railroads of the country. i have every deep faith and conviction that the committee will fully meet its responsibility and that this time--senator eagleton was one who pointed that out. particularlyis for us. so that we may fashion a measure which is a proper and intelligent one. we hope very much that patriotism as well as selfinterest will move the parties to come to an agreement essentially upon this memorandum of understanding. which. incidentally. even for the union which did  concur. its own negotiator signed. it was the failure to ratify. as senator yarborough has pointed out. which spilled the whole situation  into this chamber. but on both fronts. i would certainly address that appeal to the members of the sheet metal workers union. in the interest of what it means to the country and the influence upon the labor movement. if so small a group of workers can grind the railroads to a halt. in a situation in which it is very hard to claim any basic injustice or deep injustice inherent in it. but we are hopeful that collective bargaining will yet prevail in this awning under which to operate. this interim of time. without the pressure of so serious a matter as a railroad stoppage in this country.
 as presiding officer of the senate a measure dealing with the labormanagement reporting and disclosure act of 1959the socalled landrumgriffin actwhich will expand the definition of those who are ineligible for office as union officials. so as to exclude certain persons who are guilty of crimes or who have been convicted of crimes. which would therefore disqualify them from holding such offices for 5 years. as the ranking member of the committee on labor and public welfare and of its labor subcommittee. i introduce this bill. and i ask unanimous consent that the attorney generals message be printed at this point in the record.
. i am pleased to report that the secretary of labor has today issued a policy statement which encourages state employment security agencies to hire more miity group employees for their staffs. general administration letter  1367 establishes this policy to insure that all employment security offices can effectively provide comprehensive manpower services. if the employment security agencies are to successfully fulfill this role in the communities served and with private employers. the agencies must themselves be models of equal employment opportunity. with the emergence of employability development as a major component of manpower services. it is of primary importance that employment security staff members have an intimate kledge of the local community and disadvantaged clients whom they serve. the ability to .understand clients served is a fundamental qualification for persons employed in these public contact positions. the secretary of labor has stated: it is the policy of the manpower administration that the employment security agencies should employ such numbers of workers from miity groups as will assure that all agencies and offlces can operate effectively in responding to the manpower and employment needs of the community being served. i understand from the department that federal standards will be published in the near future and all state employment security agencies will be asked to submit detailed plans for: first. making any necessary changes in agency personnel policies and practices. including job restructuring. second. working in cooperation with the merit system agency to assure that their policies and practices insure full equality of opportunity. and third. dealing with anticipated problems. the upgrading of current miity staff is an important element of the total effort. in almost all state agencies. miities are underrepresented in the higher level jobs. this policy is in accord with legislation which i introduced earlier. the manpower training act. the manpower training act is designed to decentralize and simplify the delivery of manpower training services to the people who most need them. since strong reliance would be placed upon the state employment security agencies under the manpower training act. the new policy statement will increase the effectiveness of the nations manpower training programs. as one who has fought hard and long for miity opportunities through the establishment of the equal employment opportunities commission and other federal initiatives. and most recently for opportunities for miities in the construction trades. i am particularly pleased that the concept of full opportunities for miities will be implemented in this crucial area. where miity involvement will have a "multiplier" effect. since miities can best bridge the gap between the "system" and those that have been excluded from it. i. therefore. congratulate the secretary of labor for his enunciation of a policy which must be adopted by the states without reservation if the employment security system is to grow and increase its services to the disadvantaged. effective response to the manpower and employment needs of the community it serves must be the hallmark of the state employment security system.
the only reason i made this clear to the senator is that i am surei am positive of itthat he would want the senate to understand just what we are doing. the issue will be joined. i k that the senator is dissatisfied with the disposition of the amendment. i k that the senator from mississippi is dissatisfied. probably other members are. but i do  think the senate should labor under any impression that all we will do is go back to conference and wrestle around about the stennis amendment and then bring something back. we had a terrific fight about many parts of the bill. which we will develop in debate here. it seems to me very important that the issue should be before the senate. if we send this back. matter what the senator says in the motion. everything is open. including money and time and conditions and everything else. and i can assure the senate that it will be availed of. and if we do  send it back. that will be the end of it. i did  wish to be put in this position. it is very important that we make our point to the senate that this motion is meaningless. we would be just sending it back. matter what we write in here. it does  restrict the house conferees from opening every question in the report.
. by direction of the committee on labor and public welfare. i report to the senate an original joint resolution to provide for the settlement of a labor dispute between certain carriers by railroad and certain of their employees. i ask unanimous consent that the report to accompany the resolution may be filed by midnight tonight.
. i shall detain the senate just a moment. i wish to report to the senate that the rise in the unemployment rate in march was to 4.4 percent. the rise in the unemployment rate of 1 percent over the past 3 months is small but coming when the ecoy is under test on the downside is omis and places the burden on the administration and the congress to seek relief from some of the severe and dangerous side effects of the antiinflationary effort. as i believe that the administration may be prolonging the agony of cooling off inflation. and thus courting the risk of serious recession. through its refusal to exercise leadership with regard to wages and prices. i recommend: the unanimous recommendations of republicans in the joint ecoic committee annual report be implemented promptlythat the council of ecoic advisers publish the implications of major wage and price decisions. i believe that the administration should do more to develop contingency plans which can be "taken off the shelf" during times of rising unemployment. congress can do much to alleviate the current ecoic hardship by moving swiftly to pass welfare and manpower legislation along the general lines of the administration proposals. the need for a mechanism to trigger increased manpower funds at times of rising unemployment has  clearly shown. and this is what the administration manpower bill which i sponsored would do. of equal importance at this time is the development of a federal income maintenance plan. which is the subject of the welfare bill and the adoption of a public service employment program. as recommended by myself and other republican members of the joint ecoic committee. as part of the manpower training bill. the need for prompt action is urgent  only because unemployment is steadily rising but also because this rise hurts most those groups which can least afford to be hurt: blue collar workers. miity groups. the young seeking their first job. and those who have been most recently hired. the rate of unemployment for these rises two to four times the national average because of their higher incidence of unemployment generally. rising unemployment makes the situation in our cities increasingly explosive. it is for these reason that i call this matter to the senate and hope very much that prompt action along these lines may ensue.
. the federal bar council committee on labor law has issued a report on two proposals to increase the speed and efficiency of nlrb procedures. regardless of our views on the substantive interpretation of the national labor relations act. by the board. i think there can be dispute concerning the need for speed and efficiency in the handling of nlrb cases. the committee has concluded that two statutory changes which could materially improve the efficacy of present board procedures would be to make board orders selfenforcing and to provide for a certiorari type discretionary review of trial examiner decisions in unfair labor practice cases. similar conclusions with respect to either or both of these changes have also been reached by other distinguished bodies which have studied the operation of the nlrb. including the advisory senate panel on labor management relations. july 1960. the administrative conference of the united states in 1962. and again in 1969. the committee on labor and social security legislation of the bar of the city of new york and by a subcommittee of the house education and labor committee chaired by representative pucinski. i have. myself. in the past sponsored legislation to make a review of trial examiners decisions in unfair labor practices discretionary. i think that this report should be of interest to all senators who are interested in improving the efficiency and responsiveness of our administrative agencies and particularly to the members of the labor and public welfare committee. which has jurisdiction over the national labor relations act. i. therefore. ask unanimous consent that the committee report be printed in the record.
. i propose that we begin  to meet both our publicservice needs and the need to provide meaningful opportunities for our disadvantagee by including a community service man. power program as part of our future manpower efforts. and i shall propose in my amendment that we provide the secretary of labor with automatic additional resources in a magnitude linked to the extent of unemployment. to be used for community service programs or training. as he sees fit.
. we can longer merely engage in academic discussions as to what does or does  constitute "acceptable" or "tolerable" unemployment. we have the responsibility as members of this congress to take action to deal with the unemployment situation which we face. specifically. i propose the following:
. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed in the record at this point an explanation of the proposed amendment. together with its text. a memorandum detailing our public service needs. and materials issued by the department of labor on this subject. one entitled "the unemployment situation: april 1970." and the other entitled "the unemployment situation in urban poverty neighborhoods: first quarter 1370."
. the proposed manpower training act would bring together those remedial manpower programs established and conducted in the past under the manpower development and training act of 1962 and the ecoic opportunity act of 1964 to the end of meeting the nations manpower needs. but those needs will never be met unless we look upon manpower programs as embracing  only such remedial efforts but those educational. vocational. rehabilitative. institutional. and other programs that have the potential to provide individuals with relevant skills before they enter the labor market. the amendment which i have proposed is designed to achieve that purpose. we will be doomed to failure if we continue to perpetuate advisory councils that represent only one faction of those who attempt to address themselves to a problem whose solution can be found in education. ecoic opportunity. or in remedial manpower programs alone. it is my hope that through these amendments two vital federal advisory bodies under the administrations bill will play a substantial role in widening the view of our manpower goals and of the efforts that can be made to reach them. as the bill is considered in committee. i shall explore in every possible way the means of insuring that the programs are formulated on a local basis in such a way to bring together those who are involved in manpower efforts in the larger sense and to reflect such broader goals. i send these amendments. also. to the desk. for printing under the rule. and ask unanimous consent that they be printed in the record.
. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed at this point in the record the text of my amendment. together with a chart prepared by the department of labor which indicates the extent to which older persons are  enrolled under federally assisted work and training programs.
. the recommendation we made states thatthe administration * * * annce the inflationary implications of unusually significant wage and price decisions. the council of ecoic advisers should calculate and make public how much each price increase adds to the wholesale or consumer price index. and indicate other prices which would be adversely affected by such an increase. it should publish specific arguments why a 16764 k particular industry feels it necessary to raise its prices. and suggest government studies of situations where particular bottlenecks or unusual supply and demand conditions exist. similarly. on the wage front. the council should publish the price implications of unusual collective bargaining agreements. including the timing of the wage increases under different assumptions. the productivity experience of workers in the industry. the industrys profit situation and whether industry officials feel the increases will necessitate price increases. these activities should  be considered the foundation for more detailed intervention by the government in individual wage and price decisions. however. we see harm in opening up price and wage decisions which significantly affect the ecoy to the eyes of the public. public scrutiny could well have a salutary effect in discouraging price and wage increases that would have inflationary consequences. it is worth reiterating that we say these activities should  be considered the foundation for more detailed intervention by the government in individual and wageprice decisions. however. we see harm in opening up price and wage decisions which significantly affect the ecoy to the eyes of the public. public scrutiny could well have a salutary effect in discouraging wage and price increases that would have inflationary consequences. as the ranking miity member of the joint ecoic committee. and as it became clear to me a few months ago that the administrations plans to deal with the ecoy was  bringing prices down as scheduled or stabilizing the existing price and wage structure. i wrote a letter to the chairman of the council of ecoic advisers. dr. paul w. mccracken on april 27. 1970. urging that the recommendations of the miity which i have read to be implemented. i ask unanimous consent that my letter to dr. mccracken be made a part of the record.
. in the reply. essentially dr. mccracken referred to the position of the administration that it does  like "guideposts." which it characterizes as the policy which prevailed in 1965 and 1966that is. criteria for wage and price increases. in the wage field. it will be remembered that this criterion was 3.2 percent increase per year. the letter also reiterated the fact that the administration does  like the "guideposts approach" because it thought they were  productive and that they were  likely to be complied withthe main theory being that the sanction of public disapproval would  be effective as to certain important aspects of the ecoy. for example. one aspect mentioned in the letter was finance. insurance. and taxes. which account for about 9 percent of the weight of the consumer price index. which contributed about onethird of the overall advance in the index over the past few years. also. it was pointed out that certain services like medical services. in which there had been extraordinary price increases doctors. and other health personnel. it gave other reasons. for example. that many of these increases. like the increase in the new york subway fare. were governmental and were subjected to very considerable scrutiny anyhow. but what dr. mccrackens suggestion failed to do was offer an alternative. the fact is that public disapprobation can have a restraining quality. even by the admission of his letter. on a laige part of the ecoy. and because it will have a restraining influence on that part of the ecoy. it will tend to restrain other prices which it can affect as directly. the main point is that we have been offered viable alternative at the present time except to continue present policies. which have proven to be very unsatisfactory and which threaten our ecoy with grave danger. hence. in order at least to try a new policy which would put a stop to the deteriorating wage and price spiral infecting the whole ecoy. i have offered this joint resolution. with the cosponsorship of two other members of the miity on the joint ecoic committee. which requires the council of ecoic advisers to publish: one. the implications of unusually significant price decisions made or proposed in major industries during the preceding 2 weeks. two. the implications of unusually significant collective bargaining agreements entered into by major industries during the preceding 2 weeks. three. such other data on price and wage developments as the council deems beneficial to the public interest. i ask unanimous consent that the joint resolution be printed in the record at this point as a part of my remarks.
. at an approximate cost of $445 per opportunity. meeting this total need of 227.173 documented by the u.s. conference of mayors would require an additional supplemental appropriation of $100 million. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed in the record also a copy of a letter dated may 25. 1970. from secretary of labor george shultz. indicating that on the basis of the departments own survey made through its regional offices. 76.036 more slots could be utilized at an additional cost of $33.952.651 above the amounts already allocated to these programs.
for himself and other senators. was received. read twice by its title. referred to the committee on banking and currency. and ordered to be printed in the record. as follows: s.j. res. 206 whereas the goals of maximum employment. production. and purchasing power set forth in the employment act of 1946 affirm the need for price stability. whereas the level of inflation presently affecting the national ecoy is causing severe hardship and a loss of purchasing power for many citizens. and whereas an informed public debate. in the fight against inflation. would mark a signiflcant advance toward our ecoic policy goals: . therefore. be it resolved by the senate and house o/ representatives o/ the united states of america in congress assembled. that until december 31. 1971. the council of ecoic advisers is hereby requested to publish. periodically. but at least once a month. with whatever assistance may be required from other executive branch departments and agencies: (1) the implications of unusually significant price decisions made or proposed in major industries during the preceding month (2) the implications of unusually significant collective bargaining agreements entered into or proposed in major industries during the preceding month. and (3) such other data on price and wage developments as the council deems beneficial to the public interest. sec. 2. (a) with respect to the data referred to in paragraph (1) of the first section. each analysis should indicate how the price decisions set forth therein can be expected to influence overall consumer and wholesale price levels. how they might affect other prices in related industries. and the arguments made by particular companies or industries why such price increases are deemed necessary. (b) with respect to the data referred to in paragraph (2) of the first section each analysis should indicate the magnitude of wage and benefit increases. under different timing assumptions. represented by the proposals set forth therein. the productivity experience and wage experience in the industry. and whether industry officials believe such increases would bring about price increases.
at an approximate cost of $445 per opportunity. meeting this total need of 227.173 documented by the u.s. conference of mayors would require an additional supplemental appropriation of $100 million. the committee recommendation of an 2.840 8. 000 1.738 2.750 3. 557 38. 750 2.419 8. 000 1.378 2.688 1.900 1. o00 9.725 1. 725 1.826 3. 555 1.594 2. 225 16.000 3. 256 1. 875 2.406 additional required 1. 380 3.745 1.162 1.807 19.074 1.221 3. 789 1.096 3. 852 1.816 1.236 6. 371 1.680 1.089 total need allocation m inneapolis ---------------------------n ew ark -----------..-------------..... new orleans .......................... new york ........-................... folk -----------------------------o akland -------..--------------........ oklahom a city -------..----............ om aha -----.. -----------..... philadelphia .......................... phoenix ----------------------------.. pittsburgh ------------------------- _ portland. oreg ........................ rochester --- ...---------------------s t. louis ---------------------------.. st. paul --.----------------------san antonio ......................... san diego --....---------------------san francisco. .................. seattle ............................... t a m pa --------- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - toledo -----..-----------------------tulsa ................................ washington. d.c ....................... t o ta l ---------------------..-.... additional $35 million would provide only an additional 80.000 slots. leaving unsatisfied the needs of 147.173 additional youths for the summer months. according to u.s. conference of mayors figures. . even if my proposed supplemental and that proposed by the committee are provided in order to make available an additional 227.000 opportunities to supplement the 328.000 which will be provided under existing appropriations. the aggregate555.000 opportunitieswill meet the needs of less than a third of the youths who could benefit from this program this summer. the department of labor estimates that the "target group" for the neighborhood youth corp summer programwhich has been projected at 1.5 million youths in recent summerswill include at least 1.7 million youths this summer. i ask unanimous consent that the text of my amendment be printed at this point in the record.
that. incidentally. is a policy which was espoused by the miity of the joint ecoic committee. of which i have the ho to be the ranking member. and i actually introduced a bill on it. with the sponsorship of all miity members. both in this body and in the other body. i think it is very important to make clearif the senator will allow methat it is  quite the "milquetoast" approach which many would like to make it out to be. there has been criticism on two groundsone. that we are  decrying anything. that industry and labor do  have to get permission before they raise a price or increase a wage by contract negotiation. second. that it is ex post facto. in other words. if the comment will come after rather than before. what has happened happens. in other words that the significant wage and price decisions that are publicized. are already in effect. and publicizing them will  result in their revision downward. i should like to submit this to the senator. who is the ranking miity member of the committee on banking and currency and is a distinguished figure in this field: we felt. one. that anyone assuming that he is going to make a major price or wage change which would have an inflationary impact would k that this would receive widespread publicity and that this publicity will follow shortly after the wage or price decision is made. we think there will be such publication every month. when the president said "periodically." if he is taking our suggestionand i think he isit comes on a monthly basis. so that there is warning in implicit in the publication of significant wage and price decisions and labor and management will k this in advance. two. we believeand we believe there is question about itthat under the presidents proposal dates. places. people are going to be explicitly namedwhen i say "people." i mean an entity. a union. or a corporationand the particular item or product will be named. also the inflationary impact on the total ecoy will be analyzed and published. three. the president has stated that an evaluation body for government purchases will be established. the government does a great deal of buying in this country. we estimate it does something in the area of $25 to $30 billion. perhaps more. in buying of tangible products. government purchasing power could be used to considerable impact in the implementation of an "income policy." the presidents proposal thus is a beginning. i am  speaking  only to those who are opposed to controls. such as the distinguished senator from utah. but also to those who favor them. standby or otherwiserepresentative reuss and perhaps others. it is an effort to do something without incurring the dangers which everybody admits are inherent in certain types of controls. in an effort to put a damper. as it were. upon an onward march of wages and prices. it does enlist presidential prestige. and it does involve some criteria fixed guidelines. but criteria as to what it does and what it does  have an inflationary impact. the criterion itself. which the council of ecoic advisers must establish. will be useful as a guide. it will be much more flexible than guidelines. all the better. so i would like to submit that this is a beginning. an important beginning. representing what could become a critically important factor in dampening unusual wage mnd price increases. and i think it commends itself very highly from that point of view. i am pleased to see that the president did pick this up and choose to implement it. as we had suggested.
. we are in a grave situation on the question of youth unemployment this summer. the administration recognizes it. everybody recognizes it. the question is. what should we do about it. the dimensions of the problem are indicated by the fact that the administration itself has specified egh money for 893.000 job opportunities. themarket to be filled is 1.700.000. i ask unanimous consent that a letter to that effect from the department of labor. dated june 18. 1970. be printed at this point in the record.
accordingly. we have a shortfall of 92.000 jobs coming out of private business according to the statement i have just asked to have printed in the record. the second factor is the twofold situation which surrounds employment this year as contrasted with last year. in the first place. the target market for summer youth employment has increased from 1.500.000 last year to 1.700.000 for this summeran increase of 14 percent. the reason that we have this situation is that a small increase in average unemployment in the united states represents a major increase among the youth in our cities because the nature of the youth to be reached by this summer employment program represents a major in crease in the kind of unemployment from which the ghetto and slum children suffer.. i emphasize. withstanding the statement made in the committee report. that the benefit of an increased appropriation will go especially to the 100 larger cities. that there is absolutely idea of any kind. in my mind. there is hing in the law or in the legislation. which does anything to inhibit problems of rural unemployment. or unemployment in the small towns. i assume. as they have before. that the department of labor will apportion the slots based upon their overall judgment as to the total unemployment for youth. matter where they come from. the urban areas. the small towns. or the large towns. however. speaking for the largest city in the country. i want to be the first to affirm that that is the way it is and that is the way it will be.
i thank my colleague very much. it is only fair to pay a special tribute to the distinguished senator from west virginia . he was most forthcoming in recognizing the need here. he can be faulted for the way in which the bill comes to the senate floor. so far as he was concerned. he has done hing but his manifest duty. he had a request from the department of labor that they could use a given number of additional slots. 80.000 to be exact. and he met that request to the letter. he could do more. what else can be done depends on the senate. because the administration has come to him and made representations to him and he is bound by that. the case. in my judgment. becomes one of policy because we want to meet the needs which are represented to us. or as nearly as we can. by the mayors of the country.  will we rest content with the estimates of the administration which were made in balancing the many financial factors. and the incendiary city factors. the senator from west virginia -and we can pay him any tribute we can think of and it will be deservedhas done all he can. the rest is up to the senate. the mayors of this country certify to us that they. too. feel that we should effectively and adequately fill the 227.173 job slots for the purposes of giving necessary opportunities for the needs of the. youths in a particular community. again. i cite examples which indicate that it is  just a matter of the big cities alone. to give my colleagues a few examples: in little rock. ark.. 200 additional slots. in new haven. conn.. 550. in des moines. iowa. 100. in charleston. s.c.. 300. they give other figures for larger cities but it is certainly clear that every effort is being made to reach all the cities in the country. thus. . i ask unanimous consent that a letter from the conference of mayors. indicating the needs. be included in the record.
. as these recommendations are so pertinent  only to that bill but to hearings covering the general subject of pension plans  authorized to be conducted by the committee on labor and public welfare. of which i am the ranking miity member. i ask unanimous consent that an extract from the task force report. containing its recommendations 4 and 5 dealing with private pension plans. be printed in the record.
. the hearings on the administration bill are actually being held  by the education subcommittee. of which i am a memberindeed. i am the ranking member of the labor committee of which that subcommittee is a part. under the chairmanship of the senator from rhode island . we have received a considerable amount of testimony already. which can very materially support the very amendment. which is pending before the senate. i would be pleased. if the senator so .desires. to incorporate such testimony as we have already receivedwhich is considerable. in the record. i have already incorporated the hearings held before tie committee on appropriations. through its supplemental appropriations subcommittee. those hearings are already  in the record.  they occurred at two hearings. at one of which under secretary veneman testified.
i should like to support the senators plea to the senate. as he has said. the amount is  large. but i think that the jcint ecoic committee very thoroughly earns its keep around here. the president. for example. has adopted a recommendation of the miity with respect to how to make some move toward seeking to exercise a little control over wages and prices and unusual increases. many other initiatives have started in the joint ecoic committee. such as a review of the ecoy. aside from its strict statutory functions. i think it serves as a great forum for ecoic deliberation which is the key to the work of many other committees. including those of which i am a memberthe committee on labor and public welfare. where we spend over $20 billion in government operation. and even the committee on foreign relations. where we have emous trade problems. senator proxmire has been one of the very hardworking and fine leaders of that committee. i express the hope that. as so often happens. we do  starve ourselves for small sums which disable us from giving consideration to the multibilliondollar programs which are subject to scrutiny. and where we just do  have the staff or the factual background unless we have these rather marginal areas of support from the senate. i hope very much that the committee will listen sympathetically to the senator from wisconsin.
i agree with the senator. it is true that they have vote. and. as the senator has said. they have ecoic power. the crying need itself has really disturbed this country. millions of people. young and old alike. feel a deep grievance in their own consciences. be-. cause of what we k is happening to these workers. that is why "grapes of wrath" and all its progeny have had such a profound effect on america. that is why. when hearings are held on migratory workersand the senator from minnesota has conducted themthere are headlines which catch our eyes and our ears. this. and the fact that the senator and other senators will be voting to turn down a highly expanded program of unemployment compensation. it seems to me. indicates that these people dohave an impact and that ultimately we will vote to help them.
. there may be. i reserve the right to object. i. would like to k how the item for the international labor organization was handled. was it by amendment to the bill. so that the unanimousconsent request would require us to deal with it affirmatively. or just how was it handled.
i do. i will answer the senator. as i understand the situation. david morse. an american. and the remotest thing from a communist or communist sympathizer. for two decadesi went to his 20th anniversary celebrationwas director general of the international labor organization. the new man is named jenks. an englishman. i do  think the senator is raising a question about him. he has taken on as a deputy a soviet citizen. i do  think he would be called a chief executive. perhaps he is the deputy for administration. i do  k. but i do  think it would be fair to call him a chief executive officer. the senator will correct me if i am wrong but such question could be raised.
. the situation is particularly unfortunate in view of the current unemployment level and its devastating effect on the young and the black. while the overall unemployment rate was 5 percent in july. the rate for persons between 16 and 21 was 15.7 percent. the bureau of labor statistics has reported that for black youths between 16 and 21. the unemployment rate approaches 30 percent. while we can surely expect these levels of unemployment to continue into next summer as a result of the administrations efforts to fight inflation. a need for additional funds exists irrespective of the special ecoic circumstances in which we find ourselves. in each of the past 3 years the "target" population for this program has at all times exceeded 1.400.000 youths. accordingly. maintaining the program at last years level will reach less than a third of those mally eligible. we can therefore fully expect that the needs for next summer will be .at least equal to. and will doubt exceed. those of the current summer. already. a preliminary survey of the mayors and youth coordinators across the country have indicated that at least a maintenance of funding effort will be required. i ask unanimous consent that a letter dated august 27. 1970. from john j. gunther. executive director of the u.s. conference of mayors. indicating that need. be printed in the record.
. returning to the bill as a whole. i e the desirability of having the special programs contained in titles iii and v administered wherever feasible through the state and local prime sponsors designated under title i. unless the secretary determines that it would  be in the interest of the particular groups or of program development to do so. i support the reservation of funds contained in title iv for elements of the labor force which deserve particular attention. such as bilingual persons. indians. migrants. middleaged. and older workers. the bill contains provisions submitted by senator yarborough. chairman of the committee on labor and public welfare. senator murphy. ranking miity member of the subcommittee on employment. manpower. and poverty. and myself to respond to the very special needs of persons for whom language is an impediment to full employment.
. again. this was a tremendous struggle in the committee. i sponsored the administration bill. which bill called for the state comprehensive manpower plan and everything else to be a satellite to that plan. we were unsuccessful in that effort in the committee. we fought that battle very. very hard. but we did have a decent compromise. it is interesting to me that the decency of that compromise has  even been disclosed in this debate. i ask senators to follow me on this. it is  very technical. but senators will have to follow me. i ask them to look at page 103 of the bill. headed "prime sponsors." which has  yet been mentioned in the debate. the first entry says: for the purposes of this title. any stateso that the first prime sponsor that is contemplated by the bill is a state. so we then go on and reserve this right to the states and to any units of general local government which have less than 75.000 persons. because they can participate as a prime sponsor. so we really make for the state a comprehensive plan. otherwise it is sent out to the rural community. it was understood that the state would take care of that end of the bill. then we would come to other prime sponsors. which can be aggregate units which must be in some kind of related position so that they can represent a labor market. when we get to that point we put the state on a parity with other eligible prime sponsors. those prime sponsors can be a city or a county or a group of governmental units. if they are competing. the secretary has to make a choice. for example. there might be a labor market of 75.000 in which a county executive will compete with an ad hoc committee that commissioners have put together. the secretary will make a choice. so. we did provide the states a role. the govers wired us. having lived with this matter and understanding that it is one of the most complicated measures we have put together. the govers are  entirely right. because the fact is that there is a big role for the states ifand this is a big "if"-they will take it. i was on the side of the govers to this extent. but i must say i had to be impressedbecause of the substantive factswith the view of the majority. the fact is that there are many states in whichif it were left to the states and the goversthe big cities and the major population areas would have a rough time. logically and politically-
yes. i shall respond to the last question first. it is a limited amendment. and within the parameters of its limitation. it does  involve a veto. it involves more restraint upon the localities than is provided. in the bill. because it does requireas a condition precedent to local plansthat there be a state plan and the state plan can be stalled for years. it may never come into being. . again. the dynamics of life are such that that is unlikely. except in some really dugin situation. but it is precisely the dugin situations which we are trying to reach. accordingly. given the choice between the two. an indeterminate. vetoing block. which a state could throw inusing the word "block" in the football senseand the procedures of the bill. i would choose the procedures of the bill. because i do think that they give the govera lively gover in a lively state. which is really ii terestedeverything " which senator dominicxs amendment. gives it if they move. -but senator- dominicks anendment does build in a right in a state which is superior to the power of the secretary of labor to move it. that is why i feel there is  a chasm of difference between the senator from kentucky and myself. if the senate prefers to build in such a blockit is  a vetothen of course the senate will support this amendment. if the senate prefers to require govers and states to be activists in order to put themselves in the same position which senator dominicks amendment would put them in. then it will reject the dominick amendment. i thank the senator.
 it could include the cost of the overhead and the fact is that they employ lawyers. just as they employ clerks. it is  an attorneys fee. which is a cost charge. i want expressly. in stating the case. to exclude that.
. i would like to close as i began. i am glad.the senator from colorado has returned. this is the key amendment. without this provision in the bill we do  redeem any part of the promise for millions of miities who are employed or seeking employment in this country. and the bill. as far as they are concerned. will be written off completely. there is reason why in practice we should deny this opportunity to all these millions of workers. especially as this is sealed and certified by the fact that among the blacks there is double the average unemployment that there is among whites. and when you get to black teenagers. it is four and five times greater. i hope the senate in an act of statesmanship will recognize the key point about this bill as far as the people most affected are concerned. and reject the amendment.
  it is a ceaseanddesist order. to refrain from the discriminatory practice. and the only thing it can order is affirmative action to remedy the violation. that would include. where appropriate. payment of back wages like the minimum wage law and the nlrb.
well. the national labor relations board. the federal trade commission. the sec. are examples of agencies which may issue such orders. this is pretty general practice. and. as i say. more than 30 of the states have ceaseanddesist machinery provided for commissions or boards. or individual attorneys general in similar circumstances.
. as i understand it. the allowable compensation will be raised for committee staffs but the question i raise is: will compensation similarly be raised. or at least left within the purview of the individual senator. as to ceilings for our own personnel. the answer. i gather. is  the provision submitted by the senator relates only to committees. i ask the senator this precisely for the reason the senator from louisiana stated. namely. why should we  face the whole issue . instead of leaving an imbalance between compensation paid to committee staffs and compensation paid to our own personal staffs. let the senate vote this up or down on the whole propostion as to whether we shall have the same opportunity to compete with the committees. then. if the amendment carries. we will be able to hire the good people for our own personal staffs and they will  prefer to go on the committee staffs because they will get more money there. i realize the object of the senator from louisiana. and i respect him as i respect his purpose. but might we  face the whole issue  and either adopt a hiring allowability for all our top personnel. in both committee and personal staffs. or reject it. then. at least. there will  be any loose ends. where some people will think they are embarrassed or have been prejudiced against. which will cause trouble in the future.
. i hope that the administration and the congress will give consideration to these programs. and that the house of representatives will take action to adopt manpower legislation. as the senate did on september 17. as the urban coaltion report es. training programs are "an important part of both the longrange and the shortterm strategy for improving the opportunities of the least welleducated workers." i ask unanimous consent that the full text of the statement. entitled "low wage workers in new york city" be printed in the record.
. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed in the record at this point. two recent statements by the department of labor on the unemployment situation--one entitled "the employment situation: october 1970" and the other "the employment situation in poverty neighborhoods. third quarter. 1970." together with letters dated may 7. 1970. and august 27. 1970. from the u.s. conference of mayors. indicating the need for additional funds for summer job programs.
. this is  a light issue. it is a real and important issue. if this amendment falls. and i did vote against it in committee for many reasons i have mentioned in debate. i shall ask the manager of the bill to accept an amendment which will vest this authority in the secretary or other high officials of the labor department. i believe that is a fair compromise of the difficulty with whici we are faced. i hope he will accept it should this amendment fall
autoous and independent. perhaps it would be housed in the labor department. or administratively it might have employees who axe common. but it is expressly set forth to be an independent commission. established for the purpose of dealing with these complaints and passing on them.
it would  be a labor department instrument. indeed. i might say to my distinguished colleague that yesterday. when we were arguing the dominick substitute. i made the point that a secretary could set up. if he wished. a committee or commissioher secretaries have--to exercise his power. but that commission would. -as the senators question implies. be under his authority. that is  so under -my amendment. this is an autoous. independent commission which. without regard to the secretary. can find for or against him .on the basis of individual complaints
ially appointed officers. they are all subject to confirmation by the senate which therefore is an additional item of protection. in view of the fact that the senate in its wisdom turned down resort only to the courts. so that the secretary will be exercising this power. it is an effort. somewhat. further to protect against arbitrary closedowns. i pledged. when the senate voted in respect of the injunction question. that i would submit an amendment of this nature. and i am submitting one that has been carefully prepared and works in a limited way because it deals only with the big question of the closing of a business or a plant in whole or in substantial part. i feel it is only fair that a man who is confirmed by the senate should be required to concur. rather than just a regional officer. if we left the bill as it is. it would be any regional director on the part of the labor department. the pending amendment would elevate this to cabinet or subcabinet rank. this is somewhat what the saxbe and schweiker amendments tried to do. it does buttress the situation to some extent because. as we all k. when we are dealing with someone the senate has confirmed. we have a lot more "handle" on him. to use a colloquial expression. than a regional director or just some fellow in the department of labor. i hope very much. because this was quite a signal victory for the senator from new jersey . that he will be generous in respect of his victory. and that he will allow us at least this modest additional safeguard. i point out that we preserve unimpaired senator millers amendment with respect to the serving of ice in writing.
. this has been such a monumental labor that i think tributes to be received by those who have labored so hard should  be lost in the flurry which so often occurs after a bill is passed. i think the senator from new jersey
i remember it as of last year. it was allocated to the department of labor at that time. which by agreement with the oeo was the agency that was administering this program. i rememberand i am drawing solely on my recollectioni would never have gotten it without the cooperation of the senator from new hampshire who is asking this question and i do pay tribute to him for that. second. and the senator can correct me if i am wrong. the appropriation actually went to the department of labor at that time. that was one of the items agreed upon in conference. that is my best recollection.
 i would  say that. i do  make one of my reasons for seeking a continuance of a present practice any improvement in the situation on this summer job question. as a matter of fact. the entire summer job question was attributable to the fact that when it first came up here it proved impossible to get more than we did. subsequently it was on a supplemental. i am sure the senator will recall that. it took months and months. until we were finally in the season when the money was forthcoming. i think that having some confidence in the fact that the money would be appropriated. many cities were ready to use it. in fairness to the department of labor. it should be said that they did  distribute the money except to cities that were forehanded egh to be ready to effectively use it. we face the glacial problems of getting the entire bill through. and  just this matter. i do  make that an argument that labor would do better than oeo.
i understand. that is what the senators contention is. our contention is that it has  been wrong and that we intended. when we first passed the legislation. to do this very thing for a number of years. because we thought that legislatively that was the most intelligent plan. and it is  improvident. the fact is that there are delegation agreements between the oeo and the department of labor and hew which cover all the items that the senate has been discussing. it is just that the appropriations committee has decided. in its sovereign wisdomand it is a very wise committeethat it is  only the appropriations committee but also the legislative committee. so the way the appropriations committee wrote it. the money goes to these agencies. we have the right to write it differently. the way we think it ought to be. based upon the precedent.
i did  say that. i said the committee on labor and public welfare. which developed the original legislation which passed the senate. the senate itself i.  the senator from washingtonthe senate itself worked out this plan for a number of years. and that does  expire until july 1. 1971. the appropriations committee does  want to amend the legislation. the committee wants to amend it in the appropriation bill. and we do  propose to let the committee do it. if we can stop it. because we do  think it is good policy. that is what is at stake. the appropriations committee said it wants to change what we legislated. which is the law. and it wants to change it by giving the money directly to these government departments. we say that we decided all togetherthe entire senate. the entire house. and the presidentthat we were going to give the oeo. under delegating authoritywith the opportunity to contract with these agencies. which it has done. we consider that the best way. for a number of years. to enable it to mobilize its resources to do the job on poverty. including the various community action agencies. and the poor themselves. we are  trying to change anything. we are trying to leave it as it is until next july 1. it is the appropriations committee which comes in with an appropriation. written the way it wants to write it. which gives this money to these government departments.
some kind of lawyers move. but i would say to the senator that i hope he wants to consider thinking this over tonight. also. in the first place. the senator from new hampshire and the senator from washington will be the main conferees. i have been a conferee. of course. and i k that the conferees have the authority over what the results actually will be. i am  interested in brownie points but in results. thus. i will think this matter over but i also ask you gentlemen to do a little thinking. for this reason: really what we are contending for is that the present practicewhich is pretty well hedged inbe continued until june 30. 1971. and that then it be changed. i k that it will be done. i say that it is hedged in for the reason that there are delegation amendments. i ask unanimous consent. . that the agreement between the oeo and the hew on headstart program and the agreement between the oeo and the secretary of labor be printed at this point in the record.
i deeply feel if the senate in its wisdom because of the highly important arguments made by both senators turns down this first item. then i do  feel bereft of remedies and i k the manager of the bill and the ranking miity member should  feel bereft of remedies. this does pose the central issue: do senators want to increase this amount. do senators wish to retain the practice of appropriating the funds to the department of labor and hew through delegation agreements from oeo.
 and have the department of labor incorporated. that is practically what is being sought by this amendment. second. if we made it an autoous corporation. we would be creating a type of super ombudsman. perhaps one day we will want to move that far. but certainly we should  do it in a consumer protection bill. because the concept is  adapted to the agency we are seeking to create. and because of the arguments advanced by the manager of the bill. i think the senate should reject the amendment.
. every one of these arguments gets into the total trade debate. i will advise my colleague that we will have a lot of chance to get an education on that matter. suppose that the export industry employs 5 million people and that the people allegedly hurt by imports employ 4 million people. let us say it is 5 million and 4 million. is that going to be the standard. that that particular plant is going to close down because it is hurt by imports but that the one dealing with exports can go on. is this  wanting to have your cake and eat it too. then also the wealthiest man on the street does  -and can follow the example of the poorest man on the street. we have different criteria. it is awfully easy to throw the garbage out of the window. if one is the richest man. he does  do it even though the other man does. i am sorry. but i have heard this argument made by the senator many times. the answer is that the worker is interested in the total picture and realizes that every company going out of business is  going out of business because of imports. studebaker corp. in south bend went out of business because they were behind the times. the textile plants went out of business in new england. they were replaced with the electronics industry. if this industry closes because of imports. they will be replaced with more sophisticated hardware because we are the most able people in the world. and the more sophisticated industries that have developed as the united states has moved forwardand we continue to move forwardpay higher wages and generally offer better working conditions. i and other senators will vote for whatever we need to help those companies transform to aher line and readjust. let us look to the future rather than trying to preserve the past. this is  a question of dumping or a question of countervailing duty. we have never been faced with that. looking at this strictly as an ecoic argument. the question is what is the costbenefit ratio. in my judgment. the costbenefit ratio is heavily and strongly against us on the protectionist line. the senator made the classic argument of the protectionist. that plant a is closing allegedly because of imports. it has been shown that it is. for other reasons that the company has gone down the drain. it is all too easy for imports to be the scapegoat. in times of ecoic downturn.
i k. but if the senator from montana will remain. i would like him to hear what i have to say. first. . the miity members of the committee on labor and public welfare. which has jurisdiction of this general subject. have today. at this very moment. requested an immediate hearing upon the resolution  being introduced. before the committee on labor and public welfare. the request is signed by the members of the committee with the exception of senator dominick. who is unreachable at this time. being away at a place in the southern part of the world where he can be reached.
i would hope that. without in any way compromising his strongly held viewwhich is unnecessary. he does  have to compromisethe majority leader. with his prestige. would make it possible for us to get a very prompt hearing. so that if congress feels it desirable to act. it will. without in any way impairing the feeling that the president. as the majority leader has said. should do everything he can. with his personal prestige. to try to make collective bargaining work.
i thank the senator surely. california undoubtedly has a special situation. but. as the state with the most numerous population. i do  think it is unlike new york. which comes next to it in population. with approximately 18.5 million people. we have  only almost 6 percent unemployment. but also. 17 percent unemployment for teenagers in the cities. and when you get to black teenagers. the rates of unemployment run from 24 to 34 percent. that is why i said we were in a serious emergency and crisis respecting unemployment. it is for those reasons.  in his veto measure. i deeply believe that the senate should vote to override the veto.
there is question about that. i should like to make two points in that regard. one is that we are  even arguing for that. we are saying. yes. we feel that projects should come from the ground up. we are  asking the senate to accept that . but we are also asking the senate  to foreclose it by taking a project which proceeds from the top down. i should like to ask the senator this question. because he has the city of chicago in his state. and the senator ks i have new york: what does the senator think will be the reception of the federal child care corporation when it comes into one of the chicago ghettos to set up day care centers. are we going to have a new set of militants who are going to ride them out on a rail or throw them out or picket their projects or refuse to participate in them or burn them down. or are we going to do something constructive in day care.
i thoroughly agree with the senator. i am  trying to prejudge it. either. i have an idea. i prefer the community approach. but there may be many bugs in that. hence. i think the only fair way to do it is to start with an effort to design really a child care program. we may very well end up with the idea of a corporation. but to abort all our considerations by opting for that  seems to me to be most improvident and ill advised. i point out to the senator that it is  less than absolutely obliterating all other ideas because the committee itself says that this is the single organization that is going to have the job of meeting of the nations child care needs in its hands. for example. on page 420: the corporation shall have the responsibility and authority to meet the nations needs for adequate child care services. s fapbecause we were just up against it. here we are with the same kind of proposition. which we are asked to swallow the very moment that we have rejected a number of others of exactly the same kind because we just can give them the consideration we k they should have. i can think of legislating more improvidently than doing this. as we all k from the colloquies which ensued when we considered the motion to recommit. this was something the chairman. senator long. insisted on. we all respect him. and he certainly helped us to cut the gordian k on this bill. so we stood aside and are  arguing the same provision we should have argued on the motion to recommit. i should like to add one other thing: the chairman remains the chairman of the finance committee. he will be the chairman of the finance committee next year. it seems to me that there is insecurity in his position. he will be just as strong and just as effective and just as able to have his prestige count with his colleagues for the federal child care corporation next year as this year. so i do  think there is any derogation of the respect we owe to the chairman of the committee that is bringing out a bill. on the contrary. i think it would be inconsistent if we did  do our best to make the provisionif it is going to be the final choice of the senateat least be the best possible. after a consideration of alternatives. and afteras senator percy has saidthe opportunity for hundreds of thousands or millions of blacks who are very deeply involved. and the poor generally. to testify for or against this proposition. so that we will have some idea as to whether or  it will work. again i point out to senators that for the same reasons we are discussing. the secretary of health. education. and welfare agrees that this is ill advised and wants very much to see it stricken from the bill.
i would say. looking at it from the point of view of the chairman of the finance committee. that they would immediately have to go into the day care business for the relatively upper level. upper middle income families. in order to make the program viable financially. so. all our purposes here would be defeated at one fell swoop. because we are setting conditions which obviously they can meet. and still serve the clientele we want them to serve.
. i think the case has been made adequately. it comes down to the fact that we are aborting all other plans and opting for a plan that is much too small for the situation and a plan that is  financially viable. i believe the senator from kentucky put his finger on the problem in ing that a corporation with $300 million to operate. and with this kind of income from welfare agencies it can be financially viable. hence it will have trouble selling bonds. we will put ourselves in a box. let us  abort other plans and improvidently opt for a plan which has  been designed or developed to meet the situation because we will  k the plan for child care for the country until we finally deal with fap. for all those reasons i believe that the amendment is an appropriate vehicle for the senate to get out of the situation which we face here. in addition to the other difficulties we have gotten into. there has been inadequate inquiry into this matter and there are many flaws in the proposal. it aborts the situation long before we are ready for it and coming at this time in this session it is most improvident.
. i join other senators in congratulating the distinguished senator from louisiana. it could almost be said in advance that this could  be done. the senator from louisiana. in a rare example of subordinating his own feelings and his own deep convictions. got it done. i think he is entitled to all the credit we can give him. even on the child care corporation on which we differ. i have never said and i do  say  that it is  an ingenious and fresh idea. i can pledge to the senator. for myself. that i will dig into this matter very carefully. for all i k. we may well end up with exactly that. so that i think the senator has served the senate remarkably well. and i would like to join my colleagues in paying tribute to the senator from louisiana. i also join with my colleagues in praise of those colleagues and staff persons of both the executive and legislative branches who worked so hard on the family assistance plan. and particularly of mitchell ginsburg. former head of the human resources administration and  dean of columbia school of racial work. who so tirelessly made every effort to obtain passage this year. it is my hope that early and favorable consideration next year will make this years effort a fulfilled one both for the individual worker and for the poor.
. during the second session of the 91st congress. the republican miity of the committee on labor and public welfare. of which i am the ranking miity member. made a distinctive record of constructive contributions and effective legislative achievement. in a number of instances. the central concepts around which major legislation was built originated on the miity side. these contributions cover all areas of activity of the committee. i ask unanimous consent that a report i have prepared on these contributions be printed in the record.
. i ask unanimous consent that the bill be printed in the record and i ask unanimous consent. as i did in 1969 when i introduced a similar bill. that it be refered to the committee on labor and public welfare.
i thank my colleague. *i wish only to add the comment that the reason why we feel the president should be called on to act in regional .matters is that most regions that have a metropolitan character bring into play an interstate problem. the senator named the new york region. of course. there we have a problem with respect to three statesnew york. new jersey. and connecticut. in other areas. for example. in the chicago area. it is easily conceivable that an emergency there would represent. an emergency in indiana as well. in the detroit area. it might run into an international problem through river traffic or some other aspect due to the fact that detroit is right next to the canadian border. we thought. on the ground of uniformity and also on the ground of prestige. if an emergency were so real that it threatened to paralyze a region. we really would want to impress on all parties that we meant business about protecting the public health- and safety. and we would probably need that kind of executive authority. i am sure the president would use his regional authority sparinglyhe would prefer that the govers actbut that would be entirely within his discretion. he could use his remedy within a state. if it was all within one state:.if he thought it necessary. i have given the reasons for the bill. i am very grateful to the senator from michigan: . and i look forward. with.him and the senator from new jersey and the other members of the committee on labor and welfare. to a very fruitful collaboration in trying to resolve this serious problem. i hope very much that the essentiality of labormanagement cooperation in this matter will be brought into focus. i can see many ways in which this. would be very harmful to organized labor. jeopardizing its position very seriously in the eyes of the people. and the samething is true of management. so i think we are entitled to have their best cooperation. in our effort to resolve the problem. i think we will have that. i certainly think it is deserved.
. the sudden and untimely death today of whitney m. young. jr.. is a great loss to all the people of the united states and of the world. he was a great leader in terms of both his boldness and his sensitivity. and his sense of getting things done always dominated his efforts in behalf of black americans. in his service to the people of america. i feel that he demonstrated two great leadership qualities. first. he showed a unique absence of selfconsciousness about being black. he dealt .with the problems confronting his people as an american. and his strategies often resembled those of a labor union leader seeking to win the best opportunities and best advantages for the people he served. underlying this approach was an assumption built into his very bones and sinews that all americans were alike and should be treated alike and have the same chance. second. whitney young realized that if blacks in america could only achieve ecoic equality that actual social equality would be prompt and inevitable. that was why his basic approach was through the business community and why he had such faith in the business community and why that community had such faith in him. whitney young has been described as a moderate among black leaders. but i feel strongly that that term was misleading because while it accurately described his tone. it did  describe his fierce dedication to achieving an equal share of the american dream for his people. whitney young will be remembered as a great patriot and a great human being. he has passed from the american scene in perhaps its most turbulent time far sooner than he should have in terms of the service and the wisdom he had left in him to give to this nation and to the world. i join his wife. margaret. his family. his friends. his fellow black americans and all people who have faith in the basic goodness of america in mourning the loss of this great son of america.
. i have heard the explanations of both my colleagues. i understand their view of the practicalities. i am sure they are right as to the practicalities. but this makes etheless clear the fact that the labor department will  be able to get ready before the effective date of the act. they so represent to me. i am the ranking member of the committee on labor and public welfare on this side of the aisle. and with senator williams had a good deal to do with enacting the occupational safety and health bill. i am well aware of the difficulties we have with legislation. and i k that the senate committee would have voted these funds. if it had  kn of this adamant opposition by the house. it would have acted affirmatively. i rise only to say that i think it is most deplorable. it will result in slowing up. i - k. from the labor department. they d are  complaining. because that is  g their function in a matter such as this. g but i am complaining. it will result in - slowing up preparation to enforce this d very important and long overdue piece e of safety legislation. i deprecate it. i v think it is said. i can only express the hope to senator e magnuson. who i k acts in utmost good faith. that if there is any delay in y the supplementaland sometimes that happenswe should move specially on this. and i think the house would go along.
i wish to tell the senator that there are large duties in the labor department. which he ks. for enforcement which will require a staff. so i do  think we can say that the states have  sent in their plans.
may i say one thing to both my colleagues. we k how the world goes. if the labor department feels confident that it is going to get this money in a month or 6 weeks. it is going to make a difference in what other funds. what other resources. what other attention they give the program. if they felt that. well. it could  happen . maybe it will and maybe it will . there would be a reflection in their own attitude. so what senators have said is very much an accurate feeling. and i hope that secretary hodgson will feel that this can firm up the back of the labor department and it can go ahead and make commitments with confidence that this will be done in a short period of time.
 and the congress will touch upon many of the issues covered by the current system of inflation alerts. however. the independent status of the board will enable it to take a more objective stand on wage and price developments than the council of ecoic advisers could be expected to take. the board will also examine the same kinds of structural ecoic inefficienciessuch as we find in the construction and oil industriesas do the cea and other executive branch departments. however. the cea itself admits that it is poorly staffed to do a comprehensive job in this regard. and in addition. neither the cea  other executive branch agencies have the power to conduct hearings. subpena witnesses and records. and publicize findings and recommendations. which the board would be particularly well suited to do. my bill holds the most promise in its potential for developing an informed. partisan consensus that inflationary wageprice behavior is the best course in the long run. there are of course proposals which would go further than this. to impose a wageprice freeze or direct wageprice controls. aside from the obvious logistical problems in enforcing direct controls or a freeze. these measures involve an infringement on private decisionmaking which invites both inequity and inefficiency. this is  to say that they should never be used. but i believe they are  warranted at the present time. on the other hand. a price stabilization board can have a measurable effect over relatively short periods of time in dampening inflationary pressures. for this reason. i am convinced that a board is essential at this particular time. when the conditions have already been established for making headway against inflation. coming at this time. a temporary board can help ensure that our goal of expanding the ecoy and reducing unemployment will  at the same time unleash new inflationary forces. i urge my colleagues in the senate to give this proposal their serious and sympathetic consideration. by mr. kennedy.
. i ask unanimous consent that this particular measure. because it is so important within our compass. be referred to the committee on labor and public welfare. and i also ask unanimous consent that the reference be held at the desk for 1 day. or until the next session of the senate. so that if there is any objection from any committee. it may be recorded. we believe. however. that it has been cleared. but we just want to be sure.
. the amendment effects retroactivity for the states which have already begun to make those payments of special unemployment compensation to the time when they began to make themin other words. triggered by the unemployment situation in the given states. i think it is a measure of elementary justice that the states which have had that kind of foresight should  be penalized if the senate adopts this amendment and it becomes law. the whole system. and the retroactivity extends only to increasing the federal share from 50 percent to 100 percent. i understand that this amendment might be agreeable to senator bayh. so that the whole issue could be acted upon at one time.
. one thing i wish to emphasize. my amendment and that of the senator from indiana apply only to the extra 13 weeks of emergency unemployment which the federal government supports to the extent of 50 percent based on a statebystate trigger. what the senator from indiana is seeking to do is to accelerate application of a national trigger. that is point  1. point  2 is. he is also increasing the percentage from 50 percent to 100 percent. but it still is effective only as the unemployment rate either on a state or national level reaches the trigger figure. and the trigger figure means 6 percent or more overall unemployment. it is also a temporary measure because as unemployment recedes then the trigger is longer applicable and. hence. there is federal share to deal with. so that i wish to make it clear this does  change anything in the basic unemployment compensation system. which is the 26 weeks. it deals only with emergency unemployment compensation for an additional higher ratesdoublingbut an additional 13 weeks and who is to carry that responsibility. the state or the federal government. in the amendment of the senator from indiana and mine the federal government would carry that responsibility. with necessary retroactivity to deal with problems in the states which have been paying this 50 percent out of their own resources. so i emphasize that we are dealing with a temporary measure which has automaticity. as we drop below the trigger figure. in terms of unemployment. the whole thing is off. as we get above it. it would again take effect.
at the federal level that is  the case. because while it is true that part of that money goes into the federal fund for this extra compensa-. tion. we are  planning under this measure to increase the amount of tax. that may have to be done in the future. but right . if that fund is exhausted. then we will have to face the issue of whether to end it altogether or to raise the tax. meanwhile this fund can be used for an emergency. it is an emergency both of unemployment and on the part of the states. i felt. in all fairness. under these exigencies. which are very serious. that we ought to give the states an opportunity to catch their breath. that is really what it comes down to.
i apologize to my colleague. i should use this marvelous device which i urged for so many years. . i am just saying to my colleague from ohio that i would hope that he might consider some rewriting of his amendment respecting the prevailing wage and the minimum wage. i think it is too restrictive. i think the ceiling is too tight. as a matter of fact. i think a ceiling is impracticable. but i think maybe we can work up something. if we pass this one by and go to his next one. that will give an indication of our purpose to the secretary. plus some discretion in the secretary. and take us off the automaticity which i think he objects to with respect to the three categories in this provision.
i would like to explain my complete understanding of and agreement with senators jackson and percyexcept to point out that we wrote in the provision found at pages 29. line 13. precisely to give the secretary discretion in this whole area. when we said that he was to make financial assistance available among significant segments of the population of unemployed persons. we had that in mind. as to this wage business. i would be prepared. if the senator from ohio would find it agreeable. to substitute the provision i have just read a moment ago for him. that would certainly be acceptible to me. as i am proposing it. and the manager of the bill. but i would  i believe it would prove acceptable to wish to distort the senators purpose.
. i thank my colleague very much. it is an emergency. the railroads of the country are down. and i am the ranking member of the senate committee on labor and public 15.326 welfare.. at the request of the administration. i send to the desk for appropriate referral. which i trust will be to the committee on labor and public welfare. a joint resolution. to provide for a temporary prohibition. of strikes or lockouts with respect to the current railway labormanagement dispute. the joint resolution (s.j. res. 98) was referred to the committee on labor and public welfare.
. i ask unanimous consent to place in the record the testimony and an appendix i recently delivered before the house labor subcommittee concerning pending legislation to reform the private pension plans system.
. i found in.vietfiam that there has been po r6al improvement in terms of a local "cleahingup" .of the drugs..they are readily- available.there. almost like ordinary nierchandise on the street.  only are the drugs -available. but they.are also of the highest plrity. a purity that.would be 20 times that which could be purchased in theunited states. that translates into greater need 13y the addict and the more money the addict would need and which he almost always obtains though thecommission of -violentand serious strteet crimes when he comes back and returns to his community. -some dondluso this problem both athome. in domestic terms. and internationally is criti6ally important. and there mustbea quick conclusion. i have said many times. and i repeat in connection with this debate. whatever ima& be the merits or demerits of having our tro6ps in vietnam. at this time. that the country must rebel violently against the destruction of its youth. so violently that it could absolutely overturn whatever. good. legitimate national policy there might be. it is critically important that the country recognize this fact. the senator from iowa and i divided the labor in this matter. we seek to avoid the deep consideration and extended debate involved in whether we could keep a man in the service. enlisted or draftee. if we could cure him of the habit against his will. on the domestic side. and on the international side. whether we ought to cut off aid summarily or whether that would be effective. let alone whether it be wise. we have tried to get some way to get at the problem without asking the senate to give its judgment without adequate information on a very major basic problem. i think the senator from iowa has succeeded admirably in the domestic field. i hope that when my turn comes the senate will feel we have done a creditable job in the international field. .i am sure that the senator from mississipbi. the manager of the bill. recognizes the urgency of the problem and. therefore. that justifiable action is needed. it is unthinkable that we could pass a draft bill without taking cognizance of the fact that we should do whatever we can to make the most progress with this problem. i believe that the senator from iowa does that admirably for the domestic phase of the matter.
. this is a matter of high importance. for this reason: withstanding an effort here. the senate denied the payment of dues which were legitimately due from the united states to the ilo last fall. i myself handled the amendment on the floor. so i am intimately familiar with it. the result was very considerable embarrassment to the united states and the world. but the senate. and apparently the house of representatives as well. felt that the grievances which we had against the ilo operation were so profound that we really had to indicate our displeasure in the way which i have stated. my own opinion is that it was an unwise method by which to indicate our displeasure. but etheless. it was done. and i had to cope. when i was there. with an accomplished fact rather than a theory. most responsible opinion. including those who oppose the payment of dues. is that we should pay our dues and  withdraw from the ilo. great nations can engage in these maneuvers. you either get out and do  pay your dues or you stay in and fight like a tiger. and i recommend the latter. the purpose of my report is to indicate that it can be done effectively. and i hope very much that it will be done effectively. our problems with the ilo have been much discussed in the past year. and clearly we are  at the crossroads concern.ng our relationship with the organization. our decision to cut off funds from the ilo last year has already had a serious impact on the organization. any further withholding of our dues would force permanent cutbacks in ilo operations. with the most serious ramifications. especially in the developing countries of the world. it is my judgment that if we continue to withhold our dues the ilo would simply contract its operations. assume we were out. and its whole character would take on a very serious communistoriented quality. which i think would be very deleterious to the whole desire of the united states for greater freedom in the world. there has been some talk about our serving a ice of withdrawal in order to give them ice that we will get out unless they behave. this is playing "dog in the manger." and i do  think it is the right way to do it. either. in this report. i shall attempt to analyze the difficulties which have arisen for the united states in the ilo and explain why i believe we should pay our dues and fight like tigers. as i have said. within the ilo to solve our problemsthe problems are real. i would  beg that question for a minuterather than to withdraw from the ilo. some of our complaints are very well founded and need to be remedied. but many of them have sprung from the inescapable facts of modern international lifewe have great competition in the worldand the rest are attributable to our own failure to devote sufficient time. energy. and resources to matters of concern to us within the ilo. most of our difficulties with the ilo stem from the apparent willingness of the members of the ilo and the international labor officethe office functions as the secretariat of the ilo under the directorgeneralto make certain concessions to the soviet union and other communist nations on questions which the united states. or at least some members of our delegation. believe involve matters of basic principle. it is alleged that in far too many cases a "double standard" has been applied within the ilo whenever the activities of communist countries have been questioned. that too often the office or the members of the organization have either looked the other way where the communists are concerned. or have bowed to direct pressure from the soviet union and its eastern european satellites.
. the importance of the m1o to the rest of the world is  generally appreciated in the united states. the fact is. as the administration backgrounder es: within the critically important field of manpower development. ilo is the foremost multilateral agency in the world. with lengthy experience. much expertise. and a going worldwide organization. the 11o has made a major effort on technical assistance for the developing countries only to raise standards of living but also to lay a basic infrastructure of skills necessary for the industrialization of those countries. hundreds of the ilos vocational training and management development projects throughout the developing world have greatly improved the capacity of these countries to build up their industry and agriculture for development. the 11o has also recently embarked on the world employment program with the full support of the u.s. government. to attempt to raise levels of employment and thereby to remove one of the basic causes of social unrest in these countries. many developing countries place major. or even sole. reliance on the ilo for these projects. any cutback in ilo activities would have the severest repercussions in the developing world. the ilos influence in the developing countries has . as far as i am aware. in any way served to enhance communist influence in these countries. it has. on the contrary. aimed to lay the basis for greater political and social stability by strengthening labor ministries. by helping in the education of trade unions and trade union leaders. by promoting and supporting the growth of free trade unions and collective bargaining. it has thus helped to create a favorable climate in many countries for investment. in addition to its manpower projects. the ilos 134 conventions and 142 recommendations have had demonstrable effects on legislation in both developed and developing countries in such diverse areas as human rights. labor administration. minimum wages. occupational health and safety. and social security. while the results of these minimum standards can be precisely measured. there has been an impressive improvement in workers living standards. and the 11o has played a major role in keeping narrower the gapalready very troublesomebetween countries with high living standards and high labor costs and those with low labor costs. this is one area in particular to which the united state might devote a great deal more effort. given the current controversy over our foreign trade policy. it may well be possible for the m10. working in conjunction with gatt. oecd. and unctad to develop a body of minimum international fair labor standards to serve as a foundation for judging whether or  there is unfair competition from a given exporter nation. we have already recognized the validity of this approach in the maritime industry by ratifying some of the 1o maritime conventions. these are the only mlo conventions we have acted on. in my judgment. we ought to reassess our policy toward ratifying im0 conventions and that is one of the initiatives that. as a member of both the foreign relations and labor committees. i intend to undertake. but whether or  we ratify any additional ilo conventions. there is much that we can do to encourage the 11o to move strongly into the field of minimum standards. i was extremely pleased to find that this is a subject in which the directorgeneral of the ilo is most interested.
. reserving the right to object. i am the ranking member of this committee and i really k hing about this. in the first place. referral to a subcommittee is quite improper. it has got to be referred to the full committee on labor and public welfare.
. may i say to my colleague that i voted to sustain the veto because i thought that was right and that a better job could be done on the bill. i am very much satisfied. i welcome very much what the senator from tennessee has said on the considered judgment of the other measure which would be a measure for disaster relief. i think this is the correct way in which to do it. i make the point only because senators like myself. who are well kn to be very favorable to labor. were considered to have cast an antilabor vote. our job here is to vote as we think is required in the best public interest. and that includes labor matters. and when one can justify what one has done in the longer view of the public interest. it is important that the record be made clear so that we are able to do so.
. i send to the desk a joint resolution. to be received and appropriately referred. on behalf of myself. the ranking democratic member )f the committee on labor and public welfare. the senator from west virginia
. i am very grateful to my colleague for his remarks and his cosponsorship. it is critically important that our approach on this matter .be bipartisan. or rather partisan. and the statement of so eloquent a spokesman for the workmen of the united states fortifies my belief that this effort shall  disturb the collective bargaining process.
i thoroughly agree with the chairman in that view. i tried to get it personally. as i told the chairman i would. and i was unsuccessful. but it seems to me. in view of his statement. which i have read. that that should  inhibit us from doing what we ought to do. as a matter of fact it should urge us to do it rather than  to do it. . . one final word about this ilo. we have egh problems in the world. lord ks. with many nations. especially the developing nations of the world. the socalled africanasian bloc and the latin american countries. so that we need more. especially more where the worst you can say is that it is as close a case as this. i deeply feel that to reject the payment of the amount here involved. considering the inevitability of payment anyhow. considering the fact that the managers on the part of the house  say that under circumstances are we going to get out of the ilo. is really demeaning to our country. and unnecessarily. gratuitiously flying in the face of decent relations in a sensitive area. the labor area. with so many of the developing countries of the world involved. it seems inconceivable that a great nation like ours would take this position. we all k that this represents the dugin position of a member of the house of representatives who happens to be in a powerful position. the question facing the senate is. have we got the character to turn down a conference report because we will  be dictated to in this way. that is really the question before the senate. it so happens that i have the deepest affection for the member personally. he is a great friend of mine. and has been for 25 or more years. but on this particular subject. it is just a matter of. do we do it as he says. or do we do what is in the best interests of our country. and what i deeply feel a majority of both houses really want. it does  hurt to go along where it does  cut much ice either way. and it will  do any great harm. but when the secretary of state of the united states certifies to us in writing that it is very much against the interests of our own nation  to pay these dues. and there is only $10 million involved. i respectfully submitand i k what the proponents are going to say: "you might insist this or you might insist that. and the conferees might get hung up again." the other body does  seem to care. cxvii- 1827part 22 unless we vividly call its attention to this situation. it seems to me that we ought to have the characterand that is what this comes down toto turn down this conference report. and say: "this is the right thing to do. let us do it. let us pay these dues and stop demeaning ourselves in this rather small way."
. i am very sympathetic to this amendment which the senator from minnesota has discussed with me. and i am very sympathetic to the program. i would like to have somewhat of an understanding with the senator from minnesota on this matter. i think the administration should have a full opportunity to take a look at this program. therefore. i hope it will be understood that a motion to reconsider agreement to the amendment will  be made tonight. i would like to have a look at it. we can agree to the amendment and i have little doubt that it will be agreed to. second. i want it understood that in conference we will deal with these 2 aspects of the amendment. because it will probably be here and  the other body: one will be the fact that technically it is locked into the educational process in connection with supervision and return of the intern to the institution. so we are  authorizing a congressional or state government internship program. we are authorizing a study program. that is. a program for studies in government. part of which is work and a part of which is study.
they do. but our general view was that overall that is well within the context of the wage structures of individual municipalities and states. anyhow. therefore. i do  think the senator will find any appreciable forcing of the wage level on that account.
finally. . i think it is important that i comment briefly upon two aspects of the plans already annced by the department of labor in respect to the distribution of a substantial portion of these fundsspecifically $600 million of the $750 million to be made available under section 5 of the act. it is my understanding that guidelines regarding the $250 million under section 6 will be available shortly. first. the department of labor has indicated that units of general local government of a population of 75.000 or more will act as agents for their areas. while state governments will cover other areas. under the act. the gover. in addition to serving as agent for these areas. is to be given the opportunity to submit comments with respect to the applications of units of local government. the relationship between state government on the one hand and local general government on the other has been carefully worked out in this legislation so as to grant maximum autoy to the local areas to determine what is in their own interest. while recognizing the need for coordination. accordingly. i take this occasion to urge state and local units of government to work together well in this framework. second. the act limits eligibility to sponsors to state. county. and municipal governments. the senate bill had included also profit organizations such as community action agencies. community development corporations. opportunities industrialization centers. and other indigis groups to serve a prime sponsorship role. as i stated when the conference report was acted upon by the senate. my support for this limitation was based solely on the necessity of reaching an agreement on the emergency legislation. as i ed. the administration. in accordance with the act. has indicated its intention to administer this act through governmental units as "agents." but i urge those governmental agents. and. the administration in reviewing plans. to insure that profit organizationswhich are so often closest to the unemployed and most aware of their needsare fully considered as subcontractors for these programs. we will soon be considering the administrations proposed manpower revenue sharing. which also seeks to insure local autoy and would rely heavily upon state and local governmental units. the experience under the emergency employment act of 1971 will provide an indication as to whether those units are willing to share their responsibilities with each other and with profit organizations that have to date contributed so much in the manpower training area. and this will be very crucial in our consideration of comprehensive legislation.
. i thank senator byrd. senator mansfield. and senator scott for their attention to this matter. these inations had been pending for some weeks. the department represented that they urgently needed the personnel. and inasmuch as there was objection in the committee on labor and public welfare. i greatly appreciate clearing them before the short recess.
. will the senator from indiana give me just 30 seconds. in view of the fact that my amendment is on the same pattern as that of the senator from indiana and it would be better to deal with both amendments . to say that the senator from indiana proposes to put the additional personal allowance on the income tax. my amendment would also put a material reduction in the depreciation allowances which have recently been revised. what i propose to do is to use the same fund for the purpose of giving a credit for additional jobs. an extra employment credit. and that is why i say it will help senators to understand this whole situation. and that the two amendments fit in the same pattern.
. in the first place. it is perfectly true that the ones who keep their employment stable will  get the benefits. but we are  hurting them. we are talking about foreign competition. we are  hurting them. on the contrary. we are helping the firm that gets the credit. because we reduce the labor cost.
. one of the arguments made against my proposal by the labor people was because they were afraid that they would be hiring people in the lower wage brackets. my response was that theyshould think of the stimulus created by employing people and they should think of the training opportunities available when they actually put people in the jobs for onthejob training. that is essentially the point i make.
. certainly one of the most conspicuous problems identified with the elderly is the absence of an adequate income in the retirement years. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record my remarks on this subject that were delivered on monday. ember 29. to a luncheon meeting of the delegates to the white house conference on the aging.
. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed in the record the bill. a sectionbysection analysis of the bill. and the following supporting documents: a letter from the department of labor outlining current efforts. a letter from the national alliance of businessmen regarding their efforts. and a summary of present sources of funding for correctional programs.
. during the first session of the 92d congress. the republican miity of the committee on labor and public welfare. of which i am the ranking member. made a distinctive record of constructive contributions and effective legislative achievement. it is gratifying to e that in a number of instances. the central concepts around which major legislation was built originated on the miity side. these contributions cover all areas of activity of the committee. i ask unanimous consent that a report i have prepared on these contributions be printed in the record.
. one other thing which i think is important in this regard: we have  learned through hard experience the critical mass which is involved in the choice of a lawyer. it is interesting to me that one of the things we have learned about the poor is that they value dignity even over and above money and what one would think superficially would alleviate their immediate distress. we have foundthis goes for senator dominick and myself. both of us are rather senior on the committee on labor and public welfare. as well as senator williams and othersthat one of the most important aspects of our antipoverty program is the legal services program. it is true that members have various complaints about it. and we are trying to deal with those. but essentially the idea that a poor man can have a lawyer. too. is an extremely attractive proposition to him. and this amendment which i have offered is offered very much in that same spirit. that as we are going to what we. can to get legal service for the complainant who is  a government employee. let us at least do our utmost to lay on with an even hand as far as the complainant who is a government employee is concerned.
. those are all desirable changes. obviously these are important changes in the amendment. i believe they improve the amendment. but i believe the amendment should be defeated withstanding the precautions that the senator from new jersey and i. and others. have taken to "clean it up." which we had the opportunity to do in the last day and a half. the reasons i believe the amendment should be rejected are six. i shall list them. and i do  list them necessarily in order of importance because i think they all rank equally in importance. the first reason is that this is a usual power for government agencies which we intend to have power. most analogous. of course. to this situation is the national labor relations act. i have submitted a long list of agencies. led off by the national labor relations board. so both commissions and government departments have ceaseanddesist powers. the second point is that 32 of the 50 states which give authority in respect of fair employment practice activities. led by my own state of new york. which passed the ivesquinn bill bearing the name of irving ives who served with distinction in this chamber. have enforcement powers in the state agency or commission. or the local attorney general. to wit. a ceaseanddesist order. so there is hing unusual in granting the authority. all the fears expressed by the senator from colorado and those who support him that the authority would be used in an inquisitorial way. or in an arrogant or arbitrary way. were voiced 26 years ago in new york. those fears have all come to naught. it has been an entirely satisfactory statute where the cases going to court have been few and the conciliations have been many. it has kept the workload within reasonable bounds and that has been possible also in other states. the third point isthat the ceaseanddesist power is important because it gives agencies some teetheven a little teeth because any respondent can take a case into court. but it gives the agency some teeth because the agency can proceed with finality. it gives the agency a greater likelihood of getting a conciliation than would otherwise be possible.
. i have expressed grave reservations about the transfer. and i am  in the process of coming to a determination as to what to do about this very vexing matter. in the meantime. in order to help senators who may be similarly troubled by the deficiencies as well as the attractions of the proposed transfer. i would like to submit for the record. and ask unanimous consent to have included in the record. a letter addressed to me. which i think members of the senate should have. and both the manager of the bill and the proponent of the amendment. from the secretary of labor in which he wishes us to believe that his recent action to shift richard grunewald to the position of assistant secretary for employment standards was a calculated move to really shake up the ofcc and to see to it that its management be made more aggressive than it has been. which implies that whatever other shifts are necessary in personnel will be made in order to give it backbone. and is undertaken by the secretary to have that effect. for whatever effect it may have. i believe each member of the senate should have that letter available to him. and i have asked unanimous consent that it be printed in the record as a part of my remarks.
therefore. since we can make this transfer at any time. i felt that in sustaining that point of view and in sustaining my own feelings about the socalled philadelphia plan. for which i fought and bled successfully on this floor. i felt consistently that we had to leave this particular office at this time where it was. but it was a legitimate point made by father hesburgh in the testimony and report which the senator from new jersey so very properly called to our attention. that there is an inadequacy of coordination between this effort and the efforts of the equal employment opportunity commission. and in view of the fact that the chairman of the civil rights commission himself made this point. i thought that the best way to handle it if the amendment succeeded. as it has. was to create some kind of highlevel agency.  in a money sense or an institutonal sense but as a body to ride herd on this particular proposition. so i annced during the debate on the amendment of the senator from ohio that i would make this proposal. i hope very much that under the circumstances of the amendment having been adopted it will be found acceptable to both sides. i do  feel that it is an oppositional thing at all. i think it will help both sides to deal with the situation. finally. all of us are. i think. agreed on the question whether the administration of this particular office by the department of labor has left very much to be desired. the secretary of labor himself recognizes that. i read into the record the letter which he wrote to me. in which he proposes really to shake up this whole office. i think that may have been a matter of influence in respect of how senators voted. i believe that the office of a highlevel council. accountable to the country. will give us a greater sense of assurance that the deficiencies which the office has admittedly had may be more likely to be corrected by the composition of the council. because of the equal voice of the secretary of labor. in whose office it  is. as well as of the coordinating functions of the chairman of the equal employment opportunity commission and the corrective functions of the attorney general and of the chairman of the u.s. civil rights commission. who did recommend the transfer. for all these reasons. i hope very much that the amendment. in view of the adoption of the previous amendment. will be adopted with the consent of both sides
 is the continued stubbornness of unacceptable unemployment. the prediction of a reduction in unemployment from 6 percent to 5 percent this year based on the present ecoic plans of the federal government seems to me too optimistic. i had hoped that the ecoic report would have provided a bolder approach to the stubborn problem of unemployment through a greatly strengthened program of productivity increase. adjustment assistance to workers and others adversely affected by the sudden impact of imports or other ecoic dislocations and manpower training. turning to the section of the report dealing with the united states and the world ecoy. the administration is to be commended for the openminded way in which it is approaching the longterm reform of the international monetary system. however. i would caution against expecting too much. too soon from the historic interim monetary agreement of december 16. 1971. over the long run. this agreement. which includes the devaluation of the dollar. will strengthen the competitive position of americanproduced products at home and abroad. however. it is probable that 1972 will see aher trade deficit. and this should be expected. our rapidly expanding ecoy will generate increased demand from imports in 1972 at the same time that the relatively stagnant ecoies of japan and western europe will limit the demand for american products despite the newly more competitive position of these products. while i recognize that the forces of protectionism may seek to use this shortterm development to their advantage and may attempt to discredit the december 16 agreement as the elections approach. it should be widely recognized that the full benefits of the currency realinement package will  be felt until 1973 and 1974.
i thank my colleague from montana. . i wish to emphasize that the only reason we have been able to deal with the situationsand we have dealt with them in this ad hoc manner since 1963 when we first passed the bill dealing with the 1963 firemens disputeis that american workers were dedicated and patriotic egh so that they obeyed the law which we passed on this subject dealing with their most dearly won rights. i wish to make that very clear. without this patriotic feeling on the part of the american worker. our country could be in anarchy. even if legislation were passed. but we do have the deep feeling of faith and confidence in our nation that when there is a law. it will be obeyed by americans and all workingmen matter how strongly they may feel about a given issue. and this imposes a tremendous responsibility on us to be fair. equitable. and intelligent in respect of such a law and  make it oppressive or endeavor to suppress any legitimate working right of any workingman or. for that matter. any employer. we have a history in which we have acted in an ad hoc manner in these disputes. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed in the record a history of the previous bills. beginning with 1963 and again in 1967. on the shop craft wage dispute in 1970. the shop craft dispute again in 1971. and the signalmans dispute in 1971. all of which were dealt with and effectively disposed of by ad hoc legislation.
the senator from new york is advancing opinion on that. because he does  k. but he says that the president of the united states and the secretary of labor say that there will be settlement unless there is legislation. so are we going to take the responsibility of deferring legislation. then he can properly say that all the losses are on our heads in congress. i doubt very much that we want to accept that responsibility.
. we define the word "disposition" to include an agreement to arbitrate. in other words. disposition does  necessarily mean that there is a finite settlement of every issue. if there is a procedure by which there can be finality. that can be "disposition." this was at my own request. we expressly gave this authority to the secretary of labor so that there would be a cabinet officer present capable of reaching a conclusion based upon the certification made to him by the parties. so the joint resolution. if passed today. is completely selfoperative. and there is concern about the fact that we would be putting in motion some activity or board which would preempt the settlement of the parties. on the contrary. we fully contemplated that there could be a settlement. and so provided in the terms of the joint resolution itself that the settlement could take effect and that it would preempt the operation of the resolution. i would greatly appreciate it. because so many senators have asked me about this. if the chairman of the committee would state his view on this point.
we will be ready for the executive meeting. . every one of usand we are sophisticatedks that an executive session does  mean a bill. so. i have. in addition to itand i commit it to the senatethat from that date on. as the ranking member of the committee deeply involved with this subject for years. i will feel free to put on any bill from the labor committees bill such a measure. and then it can be decided and voted on. under the circumstances. when we are  under this difficult situation we face . of having to take imminent action in a given emergency. but we will get votes and amendments or whatever other procedures are entailed in respect of such a measure. in view of that. assuring to the senate action in an appropriate way. after giving the committee an opportunity to consider it and produce a product. if it can. i believe that i will be justifiedand i shallvote to table this amendment. i repeat. i am glad that the senator from oregon brought this matter up. which adds to the pressure. it is desirable that it be considered. but as to taking provident action. we  have a problem that is-
i believe that a bill with the packwood amendment on it will get here in the other body. where we will be in conference on it and they will  consider it at all. this does  mean we can do it on some other labor bill. where we are  under this particular crisis.
i need  protest my respect for the senator from montana. he ks that. and the fact that withstanding senator pastores sage advice matter what the risk in strategic terms. should certainly demonstrate that i am  asleep and i knew what it meant. that someone else could be recognized. . we do haveand i speak really in a very personal sense. like the senator from montana. i have the senate very close to my hearta profoundly difficult situation which has divided our nation for more than 100 years. and men feel very deeply about it. we have been through it before. i have been here myself since 1957. and have slept in my office all night and have endured all kinds of hardships in this fight. so i sympathize completely. the senator ks that i would like to get unanimous consent to wind this thing up immediately. the senate ks that. it would be silly for me to protest any such thing. but with the deep feelings and emotions which have obtained. i say to my colleagues frankly it is almost beyond me that circa 1971. there should be any idea that if we do  pass this bill. we are going to kill off civil rights in employment or some other area. it is much too late for that. still. there are influences and feelings in this country that seem to think that we could do it. it seems out of the question to me. but there it is. and we have to live with it. if people like senator williams and many others i could name. including the senator from rhode island . did  keep them alive. these issues. precisely because they are so exacerbated by the differences. would go down the drain. so i ask senators to bear with us who have to wage this fight. because the lord put us here to wage it. i do  ask the senator from rhode island to temper what he said.  the intensity of his remarks. but i beg him to understand us. that we do feel seized of a sense of mission which is an essential element of the ultimate freedom of our country according to our lights. as senator pastore has said so eloquently. as long as we have breath. we. too. wish to do all we can. with decency to our colleaguesand the senator has never found me lacking in thatto protect the things in which we believe.
i do  see why . i say that poses the issue. as i see it. and our committee report deals with that critical questionthat while some progress has been made toward bettering the ecoic position of the nations miity population. which is the avowed goal of social and ecoic equality. it is still far from a reality. for example. we find that the median family income for negroes in 1970 was $6.279. while the median family income for whites during the same period was $10.236. there is support for this statement in the statistics of the census bureau. which show that blacks are concentrated in lower paying. less prestigious positions. and are largely prevented from advancing to the higher paid and more prestigious positions. blacks constitute about 10 percent of the labor force. and yet they have only 3 percent of the jobs in the highpaying professional. technical. and managerial spots. it is estimated. for example. that in those industries which have the highest earnings capabilitiesand they are listed. according to the bureau of labor statistics. as printing and publishing. chemicals. primary metals. fabricated metals. electrical machinery. transportation equipment. air transportation. and instruments manufactureblacks. instead of having 3 percent. the figure i mentioned before. are down to 1 percent of those in the professional and managerial positions in these. the bestpaying industries. on the other hand. when you look down at the bottom of the scale. in the lowestpaying laboring and service worker categories. you find that blacks account for roughly a quarter of all the jobs. these figures show up again in respect to unemployment. the unemployment rate for blacks. especially for black teenagers. has been absolutely appalling. for example. the figures. here again available for 1970. show that while 4 percent of white males were unemployed and the unemployment rate for all whites was in the area of 5.5 percent to 6 percent. about twice that percentage of all blacks were unemployed. and even in the managerial and professional positions. the area with the lowest unemployment rate. black unemployment was roughly onethird higher than white unemployment. then when we compare these statisticsbecause they. too. are a miity sought to be reached by this measurewith the statistics on spanishspeaking americans. we do  have nearly as complete data. though there are 7.5 million persons in the united states in that category. but we find that their family income is even less than that of blacks for close to a comparable year. 1969 as against 1970. and we find also a higher incidence of the worst kind of poverty. with roughly oneseventh of those families having incomes of less than $3.000 a year. and again also we find a fairly heavy concentration of those families in the lowest paying occupations. with only a quarter of them in white collar jobs. that compares with over 40 percent for the general average in whitecollar jobs in the united states. and with an overwhelming proportion. almost 60 percent of the males who speak spanish in bluecollar occupations. then as to the unemployment rate: the last year for which we have figures. which is 1969 again. bears out the evidencesand the courts have held in discrimination cases that the ultimate facts can be used as evidence. the evidences of discrimination include. for example. the fact that the unemployment rate for the spanishspeaking americans is generally estimated at twice the national average. also. as this measure deals with the question of discrimination on the ground of sex. we have a situation which is less serious so far as working women are concerned. the disparate treatment of women has been shown in studies which have been undertaken by the womens bureau.
. to the end of obtaining more adequate funds for these programs for the coming summer. i have written secretary of labor james d. hodgson whose department administers these programs urging him to submit a revised budget request for additional funds. additionaly i have submitted a statement to the committee on appropriations asking it to appropriate the full amount documented by the national league of cities when it considers a supplemental in executive committee sometime later next month. at this point the house has  acted upon the supplemental appropriation bill. i hope that the secretary and the committee will take action to provide more adequately for these programs. if  then i shall consider it again necessary to seek additional amounts when the supplemental appropriation bill is considered on the floor. so that members will have an accurate picture of the situation in their own states. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a letter dated february 23. 1972. from the national league of cities. together with the citybycity charts which show the results of their survey. as well as a copy of my letter. dated february 25. to secretary of labor hodgson.
i ask unanimous consent that. in addition to the senator from new jersey . the chairman of the committee on labor and public welfare. who is a cosponsor of my amendment. the name of the senator from new jersey also be added as a cosponsor.
. on february 28. 1972. the senate subcommittee on labor issued its interim report on its study of the private pension plan system. which substantially endorsed all the major reforms provided in pension reform bill. s. 2. which i had introduced. senator williams. chairman of the subcommittee. and i issued a joint press release that day. describing the interim report. and the press coverage and editorial support of the report has been most substantial and encouraging. accordingly. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the joint press release be printed in the record. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed in the record at this point an editorial from newsday. dated february 29. 1972. entitled "just expectations". an editorial from the machinist dated march 9. 1972. entitled "your pension". a story from the new york times of february 28. 1972. written by john w. finney. entitled "leaders of senate labor panel pledge to press pension reform bill this year". a story from the new york times of february 27. 1972 written by michael c. jensen entitled "reforming pension plans". a column from the journal of commerce of february 28. 1972. written by tom cons. entitled "campaign launched for pension reform". and a story from the wall street journal of march 7. 1972. written by michael k. drapkin. entitled "false securityunion men. workers worry about safety of their pension funds."
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a letter which i sent to the secretary of labor and his response to me indicating the departments intentions. together with the statement which i filed.
. i have been increasingly concerned about the gross inadequacy of the adjustment assistance programs of the u.s. government. the high promise of the trade expansion act as regards adjustment assistance programs has never been fulfilled. in fact. the record to date could lead to the judgment that this promise has been betrayed. a very small amount of money has been authorized for adjustment assistance programs over the past 10 years. and in reviewing this sorrowful record. i accept as just the contention of the labor movement that todays concept and approach to adjustment assistance results in this being "burial assistance"which in most cases arrives years after the funeral. a priority item on the agenda of the administration and of congress must be the strengthening and reform of these adjustment assistance programs. toward promoting this end. i wrote to the secretary of commerce and the secretary of labor on february 22 and february 24 asking specific questions concerning the adequacy of the laws that at present govern the granting of adjustment assistance and the record of administration of these programs. i have  received replies from both secretary hodgson and secretary peterson. i ask unanimous consent that my letter to these members of the cabinet and their replies be printed in the record at this point along with their replies.
. i say in explanation to the senator that this is rather a traditional workmens compensation model. it does  federalize workmens compensation. it merely does something which the department of labor was going to do by regulation anyhow. it is in the senate bill. if the senate approves the amendment. it will be subject to conference and the department will have adequate opportunity to look into the matter. so will the senator from kentucky. i can assure the senator from kentucky that this does  reach any major aspect with respect to the bill. many such bills have so many specialized details connected with them. i am sure that the senator will vote for the bill. even though it is a matter with which the senator is  uniquely equipped by expertise to judgeand. for that matter. neither am i.
i thank the senator. the interests of the workers are  being overlooked. almost 2 years ago the senate authorized a major inquiry into pension and welfare funds. under the auspices of the senate committee on labor and public welfare. with the senator from new jersey as chairman. and myself as the ranking republican member of the committee. the senate has devoted $500.000 so far to this work. personally. i started work on this problem 7 years ago. there has been a tremendous unearthing of just how this private pension system operates and why the absence of the reasonable vesting of many millions of workers has led to such critical hardships. there is question about that. the administration has come forward with its own bill for reform. the senator from new jersey and i have. as a culmination of 7 years of work. introduced a major reform bill on may 11. 1972. there have been extensive senate hearings on this matter before the committee on labor and public welfare. and before the ways and means committee of the other body. which held hearings involving witnesses from the treasury department and others. including myself. i have little doubt that we will have affirmative reform and important legislation on this whole subject in the congress within this year. perhaps. because we are that close to it. and that is our disposition. certainly it will happen next year. under those circumstances. just to label something a blanket consumer fraud. as i say. is to mistreat the very people intended to be benefited with that kind of epithet. by damning up the possibility of intelligent legislation for years. and using that epithet as a means to carry . we have sacred cows.  of the labor and public welfare committee and myself may be made a part of my remarks.
. as the ranking miity member of the committee on labor and public welfare. which revised this bill after the committee on commerce completed its work. i feel it my duty  only to state my support for the bill but also to ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point a table of the revisions made in the bill by the committee on labor and public welfare and concurred in by a large number of members of the committee on government operations. which never had a chance formally to act on these changes but concurred in those of the committee on labor and public welfare.
. i hope that the senator from massachusetts will allow me to join him. as i have joined him in the necessary letter to the chairman of the subcommittee supporting this position. as ranking miity member of the committee on labor and public welfare.
. i am  saying that the new law will  require changes in existing practices by many businessmen. of course it will. some of them will be expensive. but by and large the high cost changes will have to be made by heavy manufacturing establishments.  small businesses. some records will have to be kept. but records have to be kept even  for purposes of workmens compensation. and the department of labor has recently exempted employers with fewer than eight employees from all of the recordkeeping requirements of the act. furthermore. the law does provide ecoic assistance for small businesses through loans from the small business administration. that was an amendment which i authored when the legislation was being considered by the labor committee. and it demonstrates the fact that we did take into consideration the fact that application of the new law would cause some small businessmen to incur additional expenses. these loan provisions have been used to good advantage by some small businesses already. i ask unanimous consent that a release from the labor department be printed in the record at this point.
. i ask unanimous consent to suggest the absence of a quorum and assume the floor thereafter in order to make an opening statement on the minimum wage bill. i assure the senate that i shall  speak for over an hour.
. aher argument that is going to be made is that we take the substitute and save a lot of time and get a minimum wage bill. that is an excellent argument for rejecting the substitute. because then we get into the main case and if we reject it. then we will have done double work. but if we amend the bill. the vote will be up or down and that is the end of it as far as the senate is concerned. i can possibly see any basis except that we would get something and wrap it up in one package and that they can amend it then after it has been wrapped up in one package. that is the only argument for a substitute. i feel. apart from the merits. that we would be moving upon an issue which is so sensitive and so difficult for millions of americans in a way which is  designed to give them the best we are capable of producing if we proceed with it on the level of the overall substitute. i hope very much for those reasons that the senate will reject the amendment.
. i might say in the same spirit that i have already dealt with why we are traveling the road twice. even if we assume that the substitute can be amended. however. then in the final analysis it could still be rejected. matter how those amendments came out. we would still have to go back to the original bill. if the amendments were accepted. that would be the end of it. aside from that and dealing with the merits. it seems to me that the very argument made by the senator from ohio that we would have the stabilization program and price and wage control is a very strong argument for. rather than against the bill. because it is  inflationary in the sense that certainly the productive output deserves a higher minimum wage than the top level the senator has in his proposal. $1.80. secondly. the very existence of the price and wage mechanism would  permit it to have an effect because it would reflect itself in the ecoy. with respect to the history. which i explained in detail in my introduction in chief. this has  been productive. this is borne out by the figures of the bureau of labor statistics itself. and i am sure the senator ks that we are satisfied that the history of the modest increases of the kind made in the minimum wage have  resulted in the diminution of employment. this is always talked about and argued. however. it simply has  been the case.
. i have some evidence on that point that i would like to lay before the senate. i have been on the committee. i think. for a decade . and i was on the committee on banking. housing. and urban affairs before that. where we dealt with similar problems. and i was also on the joint ecoic committee. every time we come to a hearing on an increase in the minimum wage. we have general assertions made. but proof. one comes in and shows us where people with anything less than the minimum wage lost the opportunity for work. although they say that that is true. it reminds me very much of the arguments made about antidiscriminatory laws. in which the senator from ohio was one of the heroes. i am speaking of a subject very sympathetic to the senator. we had the argument that this was one of the worst proposals. that we would be overwhelmed by bureaucrats and the foundations of their businesses would be shaken every time a black came in and asked for a job. it was sense. it did  work out that way at all. yet every time we had a civil rights bill in all the years i have been in the senate and the house of representatives and in the state of new york also. we were told that it would harm the opportunity of those who need work the most. however. where is the proof. the fact is that employment increased. the only standard we k is that employment has  been affected. there is hing else one can say. where is the senators proof that the people who need the jobs and who earn less than the minimum wage will be deprived of work or job opportunities because of an increase in the minimum wage.
i am a senator from new york so i can deal with that effectively. as i stated earlier. there may be a localized effect. but overall there would  be that effect. a national case could  be made to show we should  raise the minimum wage because overall there was this deleterious effect on these individuals. the senator is talking about thousands of workers and we are talking about millions of workers. i have given the reason for the new york situation. the senator might find that localized effect but we are dealing with the total national effect and we have had this argument presented every time we have tried to raise the minimum wage.
. i would like to add substantively that our experience in new york. where we have a state law which permits a youth differential under a certificate program. is that the certificate is very material. it is a method of control that is extremely valuable and also our people sayand i quote from a letter from the new york state industrial commissioner. louis l. levine. which i ask unanimous consent to put in the record: there does  appear to be any evidence that a lower rate creates any substantial number of new job opportunities. one of the problems under a dual minimum wage system which is being discussed on the federal level may encourage marginal employers to replaceadult workers with less costly youth labor.
this is the important thing to me. one problem is that the dual minimum wage which is being dis: cussed at the federal level may encourage marginal employers to replace adult workers with youth at lesser wage rates. so we have to be careful. we may be between scylla and charybdis.
. just for the sake of all of us. i think the record should show that this is  the only youth provision of the fair labor standards act. there is in section 14 a provision for learners. apprentices. students. and handicapped workers. so that learners. apprentices. and handicapped workers. quite apart from the categories of people we are talking about. are also subject to participation in lower wage rates. i think that should be made a part of the debate we have here so that it is clear we are  dealing with the only part of the fair labor standards act which relates to the possibility of the youth getting special consideration.
. the basic argument here. aside from the substantive details of the $2 or the $1.80. is the fact that we should  lock ourselves out of the ability to deal with each of these items in a specialized way by adopting the substitute. that. to me. is the basic and fundamental decision which the senate is making . i hope very much that. in common equity to that part of the population which is directly affected. we will defeat the substitute. on the question of expanded coverage. the greatest group are the state and municipal employeesthe largest group which  comes in for expanded coverage. it is shocking to me that we should even argue about that. that we should even think that a $2 minimum should  be established for anybody who works for any governmental unit. matter what that unit might be. as to the domestic workers. we hire them. as practically every member does. in our own families. one of the great difficulties with the domestic worker field is its irregularity. the fact that there is still some kind of lingering question about whether they are "servants" in the old sense. so that you have kind of a chattel mortgage on them. rather than their being workers like anybody else. i hazard the point that the more we regularize them in terms even of hoursthough we do  do so in this billand of compensation and of other conditions of work. and give it dignity. and call that lovely cook "mrs." or "miss." instead of by her first name. and do  think she does  need any sleep because she is our servant. we will have more of them. the more the job becomes dignified and recognized as hoable employment. such as any other employmentworking in a factory or working herethe better it will be from the point of view of getting that kind of service. which americans so urgently need. for all those reasons. i hope very much that the senate will reject the substitute and will enable us to get on with the business of selectively dealing with the individual items of this bill.
. this is really one of the key elements of the bill. with relation to those who need it the most. it is probably the key element of the bill insofar as extension of coverage is concerned. there is question about the fact that these are employees who are  con-. sidered like other categories of employeesunhappily for all of us. because i think it tends to diminish the supply of this kind of help which is so urgently neededand have suffered in many ways. for a long time they were  on social security. they have  been under the minimum wage. even . we are  covering them for overtime. they have many difficulties. like many people in the country that hire the necessary domestic help. my own family does. it has been my conviction for a long time that we should realize that they are employees and make them feel that they were different. but call them mr.. mrs.. or miss. as the case may be. and treat -them differently from anyone who worked in a bank or anywhere else. it would be very nice if it were handled in that way. however. we demean their work otherwise. this is a long and tortuous step in the progress of mankind to give dignity to a calling which has every right to have dignity. they are people in ones own home. they handle the food ones family eats. they should. have as much dignity and be as elevated as any other profession. this measure is an attempt to do that. what are the objections to it. the objection can be that the $2 minimum wage is too high. the fact is that they are grossly underpaid. everyone who ks the problem of hiring help realizes that a $2 wage is  too high when one considers the amount of work done. they run around the house and stand on their feet for 5 or 6 hours a day and are serving people and cleaning the house. it is  easy work. we wish people who do this work to have a presentable appearance and to be comfortable and  feel that they have to starve or eat the remnants of the family food in order to have a decent meal. i can see any argument about the minimum wage as such. the argument is made that it is inconvenient. we have tried to deal with this by exempting these workers from the overtime provision. the argument is made that one has to keep a lot of records. well. one has to keep a lot of records  for social security. the fact that people do  keep those records does  excuse them. it does  mean. because they are violating the social security law. that we should exempt them from the minimum wage law. therefore. i believe that unless we repeal the social security coverage. the argument that it is inconvenient for a housewife to keep records falls upon very questionable grounds. to give the senate the benefit of my own experience. my wife does  like to keep records either. we do  have too many people employed at home. i keep the records. and every 3 months my office is under the responsibility to find out what they are paid. to look at the check book. and my office will write up the return and send it up. sometimes i have to hand carry it to get mrs. javits to sign it. this is a very human experience. it is  burdensome. it takes someone with a regularized practice to keep the records. a man with an ordinary job does his own income tax return.
. it certainly is  fair to deny the benefits to the section of the population which needs it the most. so. again i wish to repeat what i have said many times before. there is question about the solicitude of the senator from ohio or any mover of such an amendment. these people go in homes and work there. the senator from new jersey and i and other senators believe we should pay these people the minimum wage. we have this difference existing. that is why we have to vote. i believe that the case for coverage of these employees is very strong. in the state of new york we have covered such employees under the minimum wage. when it was sought to cover them. the same fears were expressed concerning recordkeeping and other inconveniences. these employees have been covered for the last 2 years. i do  k of any upset or of anyone being prosecuted because the employees were  being paid inadequately or anything like that. so. based upon experience. based upon need. and based upon practical human operations in the home. i believe that domestics should be written in under the provisions of this bill for minimum wage coverage. i hope that the senate will therefore reject the amendment.
 may i say that. analyzing the situation with respect to this amendment. which is highly complex legally and relates to the historical background of a given employer who justifies the number of employees he can get certificated to work for less than the minimum wage because of their youth. we come to the conclusion about this amendment that it does represent. in a rather subtle guiseand i am  speaking invidiously at allaher way to open up the youth differential question to a very large number of additional certificates. my colleague the senator from new york believes. in good faith. that it would represent only a very small degree of the opening up of that question. especially related. he feels. to a unique situation which occurred in our own state because of the fact that our own state had a $1 minimum at the time the federal government had a $1 minimum. whereas. many other states did . and therefore. historically. we were  entitled to any certificates based on the standards which were established under the federal law. my colleague has been very gracious and kind and has deferred to the senate. and has said that if the senator from new jersey and i would assure him that we would very carefully look into this question with the view that. if we found there was equity in it. would propose a remedy in aher bill he would be glad to forego this amendment. i give him that assurance and also. i k. what would be the appreciation of the senate that we would have one less issue to deal with in this bill. which has already had so many issues in it. i hope that the senator from new jersey would do the same. may i point out. too. that i believe. because the house has established a differential and the house authority broadened it. we could look at the matter in conference. i promise to consult with my colleague about the details and any suggestions he may have for a conference solution. under those cirumstances. and in the absence of the senator from new jersey
. there is one last fact which is important. that is that the number of people employed in manufacturing has grown constantly in puerto rico up to the years 1970 and 1971. i do  say that puerto rico is yet ready ecoically to be brought up to the ecoy of the mainland.  have we tried to do so in one fell swoop. we are giving leeway of 3 or as much as 4 years in which to do this. and for those in the lowest wage category. it will be a much longer period than that. there are some 28.000 workers who are even under 75 cents an hour. they will have 6 years to reach parity. it seems to me that this is properly an issue which should  be determined here if we adopt the pending amendment. we should let the parties go to conference and try to work out the best resolution of the house and senate views and report back to the senate. this would advance us much further along the line toward ultimate parity than the buckleydominick amendment would permit. so. for all of those reasons. i hope that the senate will reject the amendment.
. it. is always refreshing to hear the voice of the consumer and the voice of the worker spoken in these protectionist issues. it is refreshing to me. and i believe it is refreshing to many in this country. i congratulate the senator from new hampshire. who has spoken from the position of deep analysis which coincides with the analyses of the administration. i should like to identify myself with the senators position and express the hope that the senate will reject the amendment.
. for some years i have been a member of the committee on government operations and of its subcommittee on investigations. and its acting ranking miity member. until. as the result of a most admirable reform of the seniority rule as i  occupy a similar position on aher legislative committee. the committee on labor and public welfare. i pay great tribute to senator mcclellan. i believe i am in a unique position to do so. because  only can i testify that he is a splendid senator. as shown by the tremendous record outlined in this resolution. but. so far as i am concerned. speaking in a very personal sense. he has been a most interesting colleague and friend. it is well kn that on many questions the senator from arkansas and i disagree in terms of policy. his views toward the situation of our country and the actions that our country ought to take are very understandable. considering his background and the views of the people of his state. the issues which affect the people of his state would naturally be very different from those which affect the people of mine. but i have rarely met a colleague who was more understanding. and  only tolerant of dissent. but willing to give dissenters every opportunity to be heard. realizing how much dissent is a part of the american scheme. and that is the conflict of ideas which ultimately produces the best policy. senator mcclellan is personally solicitous in the provision of providing staff and other conveniences which a chairman may afford or withhold. giving the fullest opportunity for the development of the individual senator in the work of the committee. withstanding his zeal in questioning witnesses and driving directly to what he felt was the best resolution of the publics business and the right of the public to k through the inquiries of congressional committees. he has been eversensitive to any suggestion respecting the consideration of matters in executive session before they are heard in public session. this was done so that we might be solicitous of the personal standing and reputation of individuals who might be charged and the individuals were then given an opportunity to appear and answer them. in many other ways. he has shown  only great consideration but also great feeling for all the elements of the american system. and for that i pay him a personal and very warm tribute. while senator mcclellan remains as a member of the government operations committee. he relinquishes his chairmanship and moves onto a tremendous responsibility as chairman of the committee on appropriations. on which i also. for a time. had the ho to serve with him. i k that he will carry to that assignment the judicious consideration which has been so typical of him. as well as the evangelistic zeal which has heretofore distinguished him in committee and on the floor of the senate. i think his elevation to the chairmanship augurs very well for the future of that fine committee.
s budget request for special food service programs. i urge also that supplemental fund adequate to carry out this program be appropriated by the congress at the earliest possible time. with reference again to the particular amendment which i have called up i think we should assume that something in the area of 25.000 children would be protected under this particular provision. in terms of the cost. if every eligible site applied. the cost would be more than $1.5 million as i have mentioned. if only the average number participated. that would be twothirds. it is then anticipated that the cost would be less than $1 million. my reason for offering the amendment is because we do have such a tremendously low ratio of such day care centers as compared with the total number. my estimate. and i think it is rather general. is that it is  very much in excess of 15 percent. if it is that high. it is probably closer to 10 percent. under these circumstances. encouragement should be given to those operations which give promise to relieving this strain without an emous cost on the day care center. that is why the family day care idea is such a good one. and we would be proceeding fairly cautiously and conservatively in view of the fact that the amendment is only confined to the licensed slopchutes. that is why i emphasize the comparatively small number which are licensed. if the number increases. it will be helpful rather than harmful to the country if the program is enlarged.
yes. i stated that it is only 2 percent of the aggregate number. i said that. because of the amendment i have offered. we might get more to apply for a license. there are about 450.000 such day care centers in the united states. however. less than 2 percent of them are licensed. indeed. what i am suggesting might be a useful way to get them to apply for a license. which i think would be a very highly desirable thing.
i would imagine that some states may seek to do that. i do  think that we could at this stage proceed specifically to ascertain that in all cases. what part of the family day care home is being treated by the state as an expenditure. as to the social services programon which the finance committee under the senator from louisiana is considering a ceilingright  i am sure there is a relation. however. i do  think i could give that in order to give a finite estimate of its relation.
i would think they would. where licensed. i would think it is an effective licensed activity. and the argument made under this amendment would be the same as the argument made for the day care centers generally. in other words. there is reason why. because they are in a home where the state has supervision and is paying for them. they should be excluded from the opportunity to have breakfast.
all that is being done here is to make the ceiling put on by the finance committeeto wit. the billion dollarsthe razzledazzle socalled urbanization amendment which kks out both the social services payments and the urbanization dividend. for this $1 billion. that is locked in. plus a new ceiling of $600 million on child care and family planning. and the roth amendment is completely washed out. in other words. this is tougher and harder upon the states that have been compelled to carry the burden of inmigration. to the tune of millions of people. than even the finance committee bill. i think it ought to be decisively defeated in the senate. if the senate wants to be fair at all to the states which are being called upon to carry the load in a great national problem.
. i wish to set forth a few facts which i have concerning the city of new york to indicate what is happening if this amendment is  agreed to. under the present plan. in new york city old age assistance will be eliminated for at least 10.000 elderly persons whose income will be brought above the level of eligibility. for additional thousands there will. in fact. be increase in income since old age assistance payments will be deducted by the amount of the social security increase. fifteen thousand elderly will be totally removed from medicaid coverage and an additional 20.000 senior citizens who  enjoy full coverage will have to pay for drugs. home care. eyeglasses. hearing aids. as well as for partial doctors fees. for loss of medicaid increases we average out of pocket costs for the citizen of $300 a year. the elderly person whose major source of income is social security and whose savings are minimal simply can absorb that cost. this is true even though in new york city more than 600.000 senior citizens ride the subways and buses at reduced fares. and even though we have recently enacted a senior citizens rent increase exemption program. i hope this reform for older people about whom we are recognizing the need in this amendment will be agreed to.
. on the child nutrition act. i would like to make a comment on an amendment h.r. 14896 to which i authored and which was accepted by the senate but which was eliminated in the conference committee. the amendment to which i refer would have made "licensed profit family daycare homes" eligible for participation in the special food service programsection 13 of the national school lunch act. the department of agriculture has made available to me objections to this amendment which. i understand. were the basis for the conference committees acting to strike this amendment. first. usda commented thatat this time. we do  k what a licensed family day care center is. how many states have such licensed centers. and in fact. whether the licensed centers in new york state can meet the profit requirement. let me take these items one at a time. as to what constitutes a "licensed family daycare center." a publication entitled "federal interagency day care requirementspublished pursuant to section 522(d) of the ecoic opportunity act and approved by the departments of hew. oeo. and labordated 1968. clearly defines what a family daycare home must be in order to receive federal funds under any legislation. these requirements carefully describe what type of facility is adequate. necessary safety and sanitation aspects of the facility. and what educational. nutritional. and health services must be available at the facility. next. as to how many states have such licensed centers. the "abstracts of state day care licensing requirements part i. family day care homes and group day care homes." published in 1971 by the department of hew indicates that there are currently 40 states which have such licensed homes. with regard to the usda position that "we do  k whether the license centers in new york state can meet the profit requirement." i would state that the usdas own regulations for disbursement of funds under section 13 require that the recipient institution be a private. profit or public institution. in new york state all licensed family day care homes are either publicly funded or licensed and operated by a certified profit institution. the second major point of the usda position on my amendment is as follows: "senator javits indicated that the purpose was to make such centers eligible for breakfast assistanceapparently the state of new york finances lunch for the children in such licensed homes. but. the -amendment will make such centers eligible for the full range of mealsbreakfast. lunch. supper. or between meal supplements." to this i would say that usda regulations for section 13 state--in section 225.3(3) (d)--code of federal regulationsin event shall any service institution which participates in the special milk program be eligible for participation in thespecial food serviceprogram. so that regulations might be put in to preclude participation in section iv (a) of the social security act and the special food service program. this would eliminate the fear of duplication of funding. in addition. as to the "full range of meals." these family day care homes may be eliglble for the full range of meals under section 13. but they are precluded from applying for anything other than breakfast by usda regulations. the third major point of the usda position is thatwe do  k how this expansion of the special food service program would tie into the program operated by hew under section ia a of the social security act. to this i respond that in new york state. the state plan for title iv a moneys do  permit reimbursement for breakfast. even if the state plan did permit this reimbursement. serious attempts are being made to put a ceiling on title iv a moneys. so the funding might  be available anyway. in fact. the revenue sharing bill just passed by the senate does put a limit on this title iv a funding which presents a very serious problem for new york in that it cuts new york citys federal funds under title iv a in half for fiscal year 1974. this will necessitate a drastic reduction in service in new york and obviously would  permit an expansion to cover breakfast for licensed family day care homes. finally with regard to the usda concern that "having to provide food assistance money under two federal programsone usda program and one hew program---seems to be a complicated and expensive way to do the job." i would like to point out that if this breakfast funding were limited to publicly funded agencies. the duplication of fundingthat is. paperwork. et ceterais handled by the public agency administering the program. with the facts that i have presented to the members of the senate. which i intend to present to the department of agriculture as well. i would hope that usda might see fit to reconsider their regulations which prohibit licensed family day care homes from participating under section 13 in a breakfast program. i would like to reiterate the comments which i made during senate consideration of this amendment: the only source of funds for the day care breakfast program is section 13 (special food service program) in the national school lunch act. although the act states day care. head start and other school programs shall be eligible for money appropriated for this program. the regulations promulgated under this act excluded licensed family day care homes from participation. i intend to pursue this matter until the full legislative intent is reached to make these homes eligible.
. reserving the right to object. this. again. is a bill out of the committee on labor and public welfare. on health. there will be amendments to the bill. i have  yet ed what the amendments will be. i e that the limitation of time on an amendment is 20 minutes. may i ask the senator who cleared that bill on this side. i never heard of it.
 withstanding what is very well kn to be my liberalism. of which i am very proud. insofar as labor and the poor and other oppressed and disadvantaged groups and miities in this country are concerned. and it is a business i k something aboutbelieve that this bill will help and facilitate the operations of american business. it will be a blessing to those who pursue ethical and fair practices and to the consumer. and. naturally. will be a scourge to those who do . as we wish it to be. by giving regulation to the proceedings. by centralizing the guidelines which people are expected to follow. by giving an agency to which to repair when consumers become unreasonableand they often do. i have had egh experience withbusiness to k that. tooit will be a boon to business rather than a harm to business. therefore. i urge american business and those interested to support this measure and to vote for cloture.
. i. too. like the senator from iowa sat in on these hearings.  as many as he. but a good many. i have come to quite a different conclusion. i would like to tell the senate why. because we dealt in a good deal of general rhetoric. let us deal with some facts. the fact is that 7 percent of the employment in the united states. or roughly 5 million workers. is in establishments under seven. the fact is that of the 3.5 million reporting units in the united states. 20 percent of those units. to wit. about 700.000. employ workers under seven. the fact is. for example. that in an extremely hazardous business like logging camps in the country. 96 percentthe best figure i have at the present thne has 20 employees. but their minimum wage exemption is 12 employees or less. the fact is that when you see the incidence of accidentsand i ask unanimous consent that the chart i have immediately available. which compares the general average with new york. wisconsin. maine. and florida. may be made a part of my remarksyou find there is a heavy incidence of accidents and injury among very small firms. to wit. seven or under.
so we had to pass a law. let us give this law a chance. sure. there are dumb inspectors. there are a few dumb people in congress. we are  immune. but let us  throw out the baby with the bath water. shall we ige the whole law. which is a law of decency. because we have  the wit or ability to control the administration. we have appropriation bills to give them money. the labor department has just authorized me to state that it opposes this amendment and it is authorized by the administration to oppose it. for the reasons i have given.
s wage stabilization program and i think it has done much to cool off the inflationary fires which were overheating our ecoy in recent years. but it seems to me that just as we have acted vigorously to control inflation. we must also act vigorously to deal with the equally serious problem of excessive unemployment. the least we can do. in that respect. is to act  to reinstate the 13week benefits program provided for under the 1970 act in states where unemployment is high. but  20 percent above that of the previous 2 years. at a time when we are experiencing an ecoic recovery. the criteria for such benefits should be excessive unemployment. without the necessity for also showing that unemployment is getting worse.
i agree with the senator from louisiana and hope senators will listen to the opinion of the secretary of health. education. and welfare. who ought to k something about this. he says. in a letter dated october 4. of which copies are being distributed to all senators. the following:. the committee bill would establish a bureau of child care within the proposed independent work administration. the powers and duties of the child care bureau would be essentially the same as those of the child care corporation which chairman long offered on the parallel bill in the 91st congress. we would oppose these provisions just a8 we opposed them in 1970. we prefer instead the child care provisions in the housepassed version of title iv. which would provide the secretary of health. education. and welfare with the authority to bring together in a single system all federallyassisted child care. with priority to children of families assisted under the workfare provisions of the family assistance plan. as i have repeatedly testified before a number of committees. we believe it is essential to develop a single. primary system for the delivery of all federallyassisted day care and child development services rather than further fragmenting the already highly disorganized and fragmented existing child care resources. in addition. the administration prefers the housepassed version because it would place in hew the responsibility for developing national standards for assuring the safety and quality of all federallyassisted child care services. we also favor inclusion of parents of children in such a system in advisory councils. i ask unanimous consent that the letter be printed in the record.
. this strikes me as very much a labor matter. which we have kept out of. after all. we do  want to delay the senate. this is the senators amendment and with all respect to the senator from utah i hope very much that this will  be passed on at this hour. i do  k its implications and neither does anyone else. this deals with. labor disputes and we are going to make a special record for fathers under welfare. i hope it can be submitted at a later date.
that is all right. aher thing. we have in..mind to offer an amendment relating to unemployment compensation. i do  k exactly whether it would be germane or . but it is. close to what the bill is all about. it is  an extraneous matter. could it be . understood that those amendments will be in order.
my question was directed to a particular matter relating :to unemployment compensation in qertain situations where unemployment compensation has run out. i do  k that it will be germane. but it is a relevant provision of -the bill. and i do want to leave it in the twilight zone. but if the senator objects--
. as the ranking miity member of the committee on labor and public welfare. and as a conferee on the authorization legislation. i consider it extremely important that the 2year extension contained in the 1972 amendments be backed with appropriations and translated into new effective means to eliminate poverty. i ask unanimous consent that my testimony. together with supporting documents showing needs on a regional and state basis be printed in the record.
the way the law reads today. if the department of labor goes out and visits a place of business. it is an inspection. and if they find violations. they have to act with respect to those violations. the way we have changed it. the consultation would  constitute an inspection.
. in view of the tremendous interest that has been generated with respect to the williamsjavits pension reform bill. s. 3598. the retirement income security for employees act of 1972. which was unanimously approved by the committee on labor and public welfare on september 15. 1972. i ask unanimous consent that the full text of the bill as reported by the committee on labor and public welfare. together with a list of all its present cosponsors. be printed in the rcord.
. i would appreciate the attention of the senate. as i understand that during the time i was off some observations were made about the item for salaries and expenses for the assistant secretary for education by the chairman of the committee on labor and public welfare. i am the ranking republican member of that committee. like every case. this has aher side. and that side should be stated. the fact is that the assistant secretary for education is a new post which we created in the higher education bill to resolve a deep conflict between ourselves and the other body as to how two new agencies would be run. one was the office of the commissioner of education. the other the national institute of education. i though it was our purpose. and i was one of the principal conferees. to vest the authority to manage both these agencies in a policy sense in the new assistant secretary. i am all with the committee that you have got to cast a jaundiced eye on any new staff. that is what we said in the report. but with the fact that this is a new post and a very responsible one. involving billions of dollars of expenditures and the educational policy of the whole united states. i hope very muchand this is just belaboring the obviousthat the committee will keep an open mind regarding mr. marlin. the man who has been inated and i hope will be confirmed for the job. and let him come before the senate and justify everything he wants. but without prejudicing the committee. if we are going to confirm a man to do a job. we can hobble him in advance with doubts about his ability to do it. or without the personnel he needs to do it with. i ask unanimous consent that the statutory provisions regarding this new post and the history of how it came to be established be printed in the record.
. during the second session of the 92d congress. the republican miity of the committee on labor and public welfare. of which i am the ranking member. made a distinctive record of constructive contributions and effective legislative achievement. it is gratifying to e that in a number of instances. the central concepts around which major legislation was built originated on the miity side. these contributions cover all areas of activity of the committee. i ask unanimous consent that a report i have prepared on these contributions be printed in the record.
. i would like to state for the senator from new jersey and myself that this is one of the most extraordinarily gifted solutions to a very difficult problem involving the whole longshoremans workmans compensation act. which covers  only longshoremen. but also all private employees in the district of columbia. as i have seen in my years as a lawyer and a senator. the result is heavily attributable to the ingenuity of these men. mr. gerald feder. who is the counsel to the subcommittee on labor and mr. eugene mittelman. who is the counsel to the committee on labor and welfare. donald elisburg. associate counsel to the subcommittee on labor also deserves recognition for his efforts on this bill. the record should show the tremendous benefit these men have conferred on thousands of workers. as their efforts resulted in agreement between employers and employees. something one thought would happen. relating to workmens compensation and a difficult problem of thirdparty suits. i think it will be of great benefit for thousands of workers.
. i hope very much that an opportunity will be afforded to renegotiate this matter with the house. this is an elementary difficulty. in my state it affects 170.000 to 200.000 workers and tens of thousands of workers in all the other states that i have named.. it seems inconceivable that this kind of discriminatory rule would be adopted. i have desire whatever to begrudge benefits to the nine states. i am delighted that they have it. but why deny it to the other 15. if it is equitable for the united states to go forward on this 5050 sharing for the nine states. certainly it is equitable to go forward with the other 15. if their unemployment climbs back above 4 percent. why discriminate against some. either do  do it at all. which again would be inhumane. or do it for all those who are comparably affected. so that i hope very much the opportunity will be afforded. in respect of a vote on the conference report. to correct this situation.
. i ask unanimous consent that eugene mittelman. an aide to the committee on labor and public welfare. be given the privilege of the floor during the consideration of the joint resolution which will be considered shortly.
very well. the department of transportation testified through . but that it is appropriate to mandate the respective departments. therefore. i will join the senator from michigan in offering that change. i hope the chairman will agree to accept it. other than that. i voted for the resolution. i felt it to be my duty. i believe it is our duty. without prejudicing the rights of either labor or the creditors and stockholders of the company represented by the trustees. whose affairs are in the hands of the court. to keep going a transportation system essential to america. in the public interest. and that it is our duty to keep it going by hereby issuing the necessary authority. finally. i wish to say i am  blind to the fact that a 90day delay. which is the period specified. gives some advantage to labor. because labor goes back without change in the work rules. and we realize the deep financial stringencies upon the railroad. but i feel 90 days is a fair figure. i hope one will try to force it beyond that period. because that. in my judgment. would begin to "load the deck" beyond what is necessary to get the job done. so i hope there will be effort to press it beyond the 90 days. that period represents an effort to be as objective as we canand i emphasize all those words. as objective as we canunder the circumstances. in the senate. i hope very much the senate will support this resolution.
. on behalf of myself. senator tunney and other senators. i introduce a bill which would permanently amend the 1970 federalstate extended unemployment compensation benefits law in order to permit over 20 states to regain eligibility to compensation benefits which that law provides. it would also make permanent the limited amendments enacted at the close of last year which have enabled eight states to maintain their eligibility to participate in the program through june 30. 1973. the other cosponsors of this bill are senators brooke. case. hart.
. i am pleased to cosponsor the bill to permit jointly administered funds to be utilized. for prepaid legal services programs under section 302 of the tafthartley act. the interest of the trade union movement in obtaining for union members legal services under prepaid plans of the type this bill would authorize. is one which we in congress ought to encourage. we are all aware of the problems which lower- and middleincome americans have in obtaining adequate legal services. just as prepaid medical plans  permit the majority of all workers to have access to decent medical care. prepaid legal -services may prove to be the mechanism to accomplish the same result for legal services. at the time the tafthartley act was enacted. congress did  foresee the growing trade union interest in securing various kinds of social benefits to their members through the mechanism of collective bargaining. as a result. section 302 was drafted in such a way as to permit only specified kinds of jointly administered funds. in recent years we have amended section 302 to permit the establishment of jointly administered funds to provide daycare facilities and educational scholarships when the amalgamated clothing workers commenced such a program. the time for prepaid legal services has clearly arrived. the basic idea of prepaid legal services. as well as this particular bill. have been endorsed by the house of delegates of the american bar association. clearly we ought to act with dispatch to pass this bill in order to remove the present legal obstacles to the creation of jointly administered funds to provide prepaid legal services. by mr. schweiker:
  to go to phase iv and to extend again active controls over prices and wages as in phase ii and this time to indlude agricultural products. aher freeze will  make it as too rigid but a frank recognition that we made a mistake in coming off phase ii too soon has a chance.
. the occupational health and safety act. enacted in 1970. is one of the most important pieces of federal labor legislation protecting american workers. unfortunately. as most of us are aware. a great many problems have developed in the implementation of the new law. criticism has come from both sides--some believe the act has been enforced too harshly. others believe that the resources committed to the osha program have been woefully inadequate. last year i sponsored an amendment to permit osha to provide onsite consultation services for small businessmen. to remedy one of the worst defects of the present administration of the program. unfortunately. while the amendment was adopted by the senate. it never became law. i still believe that osha ought to provide these consultation services and i hope very much that the new secretary of labor will review the departments position on this question. and particularly the validity of the legal opinion upon which the department has refused to provide such services so far. later this year the committee on labor and public welfare will undoubtedly be considering amendments to osha. as well as to our mine safety laws dealing with coal mines and other types of mines. wholly apart from such amendments. however. congress must act to insure an adequate budget for osha and the national institute for occupational safety and health. which provides all of the basic research upon which a successful osha in general. and niosh in particular. is very forcefully presented in a statement prepared by john v. grimaldi. director of the center for safety of new york university. i ask unanimous consent that dr. grimaldis statement be printed in the record.
. last thursday. labor and management in the steel industry annced one of the most significant agreements ever negotiated through collective bargaining in america. under the agreement. the largest u.s. steel companies and the united steelworkers have agreed to rely on voluntary arbitration. rather than strikes or lockouts. to resolve ecoic issues upon which the agreement can be reached through voluntary negotiations. this kind of approach to settling labormanagement disputes has been talked about for many years. it has  become a reality in the steel industry.  only will the agreement bring muchneeded stability to one of our most vital industries. but it will also serve as a precedent for serious consideration of similar approaches in other industries. i want to pay tribute to the farsighted. responsible leadership that exists on both sides of the bargaining table in the steel industryi. w. abel for the united steelworkers and r. heath larry for steel management for their vision and courage in negotiating this agreement. anyone familiar with the history of collective bargaining in this country will understand how difficult it must have been for both labor and management voluntarily to relinquish their freedom of action. both sides have clearly risked a great deal in entering into this agreement. yet. if it works. we may well have started on the road to a period of more stable and harmonious labormanagement relations than this country has kn for decades. i ask unanimous consent that an article from last fridays new york times concerning the agreement be printed in the record.
. on behalf of the administration i introduce a bill to extend the manpower development and training act of 1962. as amended and ask unanimous consent that the bill. an explanation thereof. and a letter from the secretary of labor be printed at this point in the record.
. i conclude as follows: effective pension reform legislation is one of the most significant measures  pending in congress. i welcome the administrations improved initiatives in this field even though i disagree with the approach to the pension problems of working men and women. as for example. omissions of insurance. since both the administration and the congress are committed to pension reform. it is incumbent on the congressional leadership in both parties to move this legislation ahead toward enactment as expeditiously as possible in order to safeguard fully the vital retirement interests of american workers and to stimulate their confidence in the ability of our ecoic system to provide adequate ecoic justice. i am hopeful that we will have on the floor for consideration within the next 30 days the pension plan reform legislation as reported by the senate committee. i might report to the senate that such legislation is also moving in the other body under the chairmanship of representative dent of pennsylvania. very active work is going on in the subcommittee of the other body on this measure. whatever we do here will be of great encouragement to them. there is single bill pending in this congress that i k of that has a greater head of steam in the support of millions of people who k about this bill. very few people generally can identify a bill but they k about this bill. hopefuly. with the senate acting on it. we will be able to fulfill a longfelt crying need of the american people for retirement security. as far as it can be afforded under our ecoic system. and this i emphasize. with public participation. but all private enterprise. the outside estimate of the average effect of such a reform measure on payrolls is about 1.5 percent. which is certainly a modest addition. considering the vast benefits which will flow from it to every worker in every wage bracket.
 wants to do anything different from what i want to do or any other member in good faith in this body wants to doto wit. control effectively. in the interests of our people. the inflationary movement of prices. but i express my view. at the same time i vote for this authority. which is a great authority. that the taking off of phase ii and its succession by phase i was premature and that we should return. in a phase iv. to the price and wage controls. both fully equally. which had the country on a pretty reasonable level. and which i believe can again restore the country to a pretty reasonable level. i do  believe a freeze will do it. as it will freeze in many inequities which have already occurred. for example. my dairy farmers in thern new york feel deeply abused by the rise in feed prices. whereas other commodities may be the subject of material windfalls to their producers. therefore. utilization of the cutlass instead of the scalpel in legislation will  be effective and will  be just. i hope very much that the power we are givingand it is going to be up to us to see that it is givenis used wisely and constructively. we are  yet ready to relinquish a price and wage control mechanism. and we should return to it at the earliest time.
. this is a serious matter we are discussing. as it represents a new area for action between labor and management. the fact is that the idea of prepaid legal services has developed considerable currency and that both the american bar association and my own bar association in new york. according to the report which i have. look with favor on this development. in my view. congress ought to do all it can to encourage the establishment of these prepaid legal service funds through collective bargaining. that is why i fully support this bill. and hope very much the senate will approve it as reported by the committee. the question which is  submitted to us is a very narrow one. namely. shall or shall  employers be required to bargain with unions on this subject if the employer does  wish to do so. the senator from texas negates the proposition. we do  negate or affirm it but leave it to be determined by the nlrb and the courts on a casebycase basis. the argument on the part of the proponents of the amendment naturally proceeds on the theory that if there is a right to bargain. or a mandatory obligation to bargain. that means that the workers get it. but that really is  so. unions demand many things in collective bargaining. who can say that they get any or all of their wage demands or their fringe benefits. the mere fact that bargaining is mandatory simply means that it needs to be discussed in a serious and good faith way. it has been said. and very properly so. that even if this amendment were adopted any experienced labor negotiator could handle that without running afoul of the law. even if the employer or employers do  wish to discuss the matter. i want to emphasize that the issue here is  whether employers should or should  agree to make payments to these funds. the issue is whether they should even talk about it. provided the nlrb holds that the particular legal services plan which is brought up is a legal services plan which falls within the definition of wage. hours. and conditions of employment.
for example. the board may very well make a distinction between a legal services program which deals with suits on workmens compensation. as the subject for a trust fund such as the one we are discussing. and a legal services program which may deal with the generality of obligations of the individual for perhaps opposing a department store bill or a suit against some retailer for misrepresentation or fraud or a personal injury suit in an accident case. i believe. . that as the whole concept of the employeremployee relationship is developing under the labor laws. these issues need to be developed with it. we should  put shackles on it. i think the people on our side of the argument have made a very good case for cranking into the law a requirement that bargaining on legal services trust funds should be mandatory. had we written it into the law. that would have been that. we chose to leave the law where we found it and to deal with the substantive elements of the case. the proponents of the amendment would have us negative that proposition and. by terms of the law. exclude it from the collective bargaining process. i do  believe that should be so. i emphasize againand i think it is the crucial point for senators in determining how they will votethat the fact that it is a subject for bargaining. a mandatory subject for bargaining. even if it were in the whole generality of legal services trust funds. would still  compel the employer to agree. so i believe that the committee should be sustained and that the amendment should be rejected.
. that the committee on appropriations has made a splendid disposition of this proposition by affirming its intention that the continuing operation of the program at the level of $71.5 million should be carried on. and that if there was going to be any hiatus. the committee undertook to see that such hiatus occurred. but that under a continuing resolution. based on existing authority and the present level of funding. the work would go on. i wish to tell the chairman and the ranking member how important that is to the personnel of the legal services program. these are lawyers. they can wait around in great uncertainty until the ax falls. they need to have some sense of assurance that the work will go on and that their compensation will continue to be paid. it certainly is hing munificent. it is far less than they could earn for comparable work in private law practice. i think. therefore. that the disposition which was made in lieu of any need to move an amendment to this bill was most satisfactory. inasmuch as it has  been mentioned in the debate. i wish to express. as i am the ranking member of the committee which traditionally has handled this matterthe committee on labor and public welfaremy appreciation to the appropriations committee and i k the appreciation of hundreds of thousands of poor people who have benefited. and appreciation to the chairman and the ranking member for the way this matter was handled.
. i am delighted to hear the espousal by the distinguished senator from delaware of the reintroduction of stronger wage and price controls analogous to phase ii. i have very much the same advocacy. the senator is quite right about it. this would be strongly in the tradition of former senator john williams of delaware. he and i came to this floor many times with the same thought at the same time. withstanding the fact that he had the reputation of being one of the leading conservatives in the country and my reputation was. allegedly. one of being primarily a liberal. thus. i welcome this paralleling of our views on this particular subject by senator williams most worthy successor in this body.
. the drastic increase in the federal wholesale price index published this morning by the u.s. department of labor. showing a 2.1percent increase in only 1 month. aprilmay 1973. is so steep as to require further argument for abandoning phase m of price and wage controlsthe voluntary phaseand going back to phase ii mandatory wage and price controls. i ask unanimous consent to have the wholesale price index report by the bureau of labor statistics of june 7. 1973. printed in the record.
. yesterday particularly s. 4. the williamsjavits ject. pension reform billwhich is cospon- in view of the widespread interest and senator willxms of new jersey. chair- sored by 53 members of the senate and is concern over the need to reform compreman of the committee on labor and pub- pending on the senate calendar. i also hensively our nations private pension lic welfare. and i jointly testified before e with appreciation that yesterday. plans--and to do it in this session of conthe senate finance committees sub- senator taft of ohioa staunch sup- gress. and in view of the great support committee on pensions on private pen- porter of the williamsjavits billmade behind early enactment of the williamsjavits billi ask unanimous consent that my testimony before the finance committee. as well as related articles and editorials. be inserted in the record.
. i am very pleased to join with the senator from new jersey . the chairman of the labor and public welfare committee. in introducing legislation designed to establish minimum standards for state workmens compensation laws and to assist and encourage the states in other ways to improve their workmens compensation laws. i was the author of the amendment to the occupational health and safety act which established the national commission on state workmens compensation laws and this measure carries out its main recommendations. on july 30. 1972. the commission issued its report and recommendations concerning needed improvements in our present stateadministered workmens compensation system. the basic conclusion. reached by all 15 members of this broadbased commission was thatstate workmens compensation laws are in general neither adequate  equitable. while several states have good programs. and while medical care and some other aspects of workmens compensation are commendable. strong points too often are matched by weak. to remedy the inadequacy of existing state laws. the commission made farreaching and specific recommendations for change. the commission quite properly categorically rejected federalization of workmens compensation as a solution. however it broke new ground by recommending the enactment by congress of federal legislation establishing minimum standards if state laws did  meet basic requirements by 1975. i believe the state laws should meet these standards. and that the law should say so . though compliance should  be required until 1975. the legislation we are introducing today is designed to implement the commissions comprehensive recommendations for improving state workmens compensation laws without federalizing the state workmens compensation system. basically. todays bill is a refinement of s. 4110. the bill i introduced at the close of last year. and. i am extremely gratified that this matter has  become a bipartisan effort. with the sponsorship of the chairman of the labor and public welfare committee. i am confident that this bill will get the priority which it deserves before our committee and that hearings will be held on it. hopefully late this summer or in the fall. under the bill each state would have until january 1. 1975. to meet substantive minimum standards set forth in the bill. the standards are based on the recommendations of the national commission. if a state fails to meet the standards. the federal longshoremens and harbor workers act would apply within the state butand this is a point which can be emphasized too stronglyeven in that eventuality. the administration of the law within the state would  necessarily be federalized. rather. the bill specifically directs the secretary of labor to endeavor to enter into an agreement with the state workmens compensation agency under which the state agency would agree to administer the federal law under the general supervision and direction of the secretary. under these provisions. the states would be given a full opportunity. if they so desire. to assume all of the functions which would be performed by a deputy commissioner under the longshoremens and harbor workers compensation act. it is only if a state refuses to enter into such an agreement that the federal government would administer the program. these provisions of the bill should demonstrate clearly that the intent of this legislation is . as some have alleged. to federalize workmens compensation. i oppose federalization of workmens compensation. because it would be a disservice to the cause of workmens compensation reform to waste the talent. experience. and dedication of thousands of state officials involved in the administration of state workmens compensation programs by replacing them with federal administrators. thus. the intent of this bill is to require the secretary of labor to bend over backward to continue the involvement of state personnel in the administration of workmens compensation programs. the minimum standards which would be established for state workmens compensation laws under this bill can be characterized as too idealistic or visionary. for the most part. they directly follow the unanimous recommendations of the national commission on state workmens compensation laws. whose members included representatives of business. labor. insurance. state workmens compensation administrators. academicians and members of the public. they also are consistent with the amendments to the federal longshoremens and harbor workers compensation act enacted by congress last year. the following are some of the more important standards which would be established under the bill:
. had this sum of $44.5 million been made available. together with the $256.5 million already appropriated. we would have recreated roughly the same program as last year. summer is here and we are at the threshold of the operation of this program. i am  going to bedevil the senate  with the urgency of the program. we argued that and prevailed. indeed. people who feel as i do prevailed in the other body. in that they rejected the administrations request to rescind $256.5 million. the conferees having met come back with the following proposition in effect reiterating the position already taken by each house previously. they say that $1.5 billion in round figures is available for manpower training purposes. that the department of labor currently plans to obligate $1.2 billion. and. therefore. that there is more than ample money available to fully support the neighborhood youth corps. they say at page 8: it is the intent of the conferees that at least as many neighborhood youth corps summer job opportunities should be provided from this source as were provided in last summers program. to show they mean business they  only stand fast by the $256 million previous refusal to rescind and suggest that other funds even beyond the $256.5 should be used. but they also say that the $44.5 million separately as the senate ordered but within that $256 million already appropriated shall be available for us in this program after the first of july. . even though i want to go along with that proposition. for . i e that it does result in appropriating $44.5 million less than the senate did. but beyond that. in respect to the $256.5 million. i have the impressionfrom talking with the administrationthat our refusal to rescind the $256.5 million already appropriated both in the house and in the senate is  going to be construed by the administration as a mandate by us to spend. but they are going to deal with it as they choose. it seems to me. at the very leasteven if i swallow. as i said. that the $44.5 million additional will  be providedwe ought to have that assurance that clearly both the senate and the house have already so manifested their purpose by each refusing previously to rescind the $256.5 million. as requested by the administration and that the report language is basically a reiteration of that previously expressed purpose. with the additional purpose that even funds beyond the $256.5 million should be made available if necessary. to maintain the program at last years level of opportunities. and that $44.5 million of the $256.5 million can be carried over.
. on behalf of myself. senator tunney. and other senators. i introduce an amendment to h.r. 8410 which would permanently amend the 1970 federalstate extended unemployment compensation benefits law in order to permit 28 states and puerto rico to regain or maintain eligibility to compensation benefits which that law provides. it would also make permanent the limited amendments enacted at the close of last year which have enabled eight states to maintain their eligibility to participate in the program through june 30. 1973. the other cosponsors of this amendment are senators
despite this history. consideration whatever has been given to legislation affecting the trigger requirements of the extended unemployment compensation benefits program. indeed. as matters  stand the following eight additional states. who were benefited by the amendment adopted last year will lose their eligibility to participate in the program. because the amendment is only effective through alaska. hawaii. massachusettes. new jersey. puerto rico. rhode island. vermont. and washington. i ask unanimous consent that a table prepared by the department of labor showing the status of each state. the number of workers potentially affected by this amendment. and the cost of participation by the states be printed in the record at this point.
unfortunately. what the senator from california and i foresaw last winter came true. in the following states insured unemployment rose above 4 percent this winter. but the states were precluded from participating in the extended benefits program: number of beneficiaries (thousands) with without ex- exhaustees haustees federal costs with without ex- exhaustees haustees state costs with without ex- exhaustees haustees n eb rask a ----------------------------------------------------- -------------- ------nevada ------------------- 9.5 9.5 $2.8 $8.8 $8.8 $8.8 n ew h am pshire -------------------------------------------------------------------new jersey ---------------111.8 111.8 36. 1 36.1 36.1 new mexico --------------- 2.8 1.5 .6 .4 .5 .3 new york ----------------- 185.4 92.7 53.7 26.8 53.7 26.8 th carolina ........................................................................ th dakota -------------- 1.6 .8 .4 .2 .4 .2 o h ioo ---- --------- -------- --------- -------- --------- -------- --- ------ -------- . . . . . . . . . . oklahoma ----------------- 9.2 0 1.9 0 1.9 0 oregon ------------------- 11.4 10.5 2.6 2.4 2.6 2.4 pennsylvania -------------- 91.4 53.6 28.7 16.8 23.4 13.7 puerto rico ---------------- 42.3 42.3 8. 5 8.5 8.5 8. 5 rhode island -------------- 15.7 15.7 4.5 4.5 4.5 4.5 south c arolina ------------------------------------------------------------------------south d akota -------------------------------------------------------------------------tennessee ............................................................................. texas ................................................................................ utah -------------------- 35 2.7 .9 .7 .6 .4 vermont ------------------ 3.6 3.5 t.0 1.0 t.0 1.0 v irg in ia - - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - - -- ---- -- --- - --- - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - - - - - - -- -- -- - -washington ---------------- 69.8 69.8 20.2 20.2 16.5 16. 5 west virginia -------------- 5.7 2.6 1.1 .5 1.1 .5 wisconsin ----------------- 5.1 0 2.4 0 1.6 0 w yom ing --------------------------------------------- i --------------------------------total arkansas. california. connecticut. idaho. maine. michigan. montana. nevada. new mexico. new york. th dakota. oregon. pennsylvania. utah. and west virginia. if the exhaustion rate were counted in determining insured unemployment levels. the following states could also have qualified to participate in the program: kentucky. louisiana. minnesota. missouri. and oklahoma. in view of this fact. i joined with senators tunney. brooke. case. hart.
i further point out that this amendment would  automatically require participation of all the states listed in the table. it would still be up to each individual state. at its option. to enact legislation taking advantage of the liberalization of the trigger requirements provided for in this legislation. . i am  quarreling about that. we have all lived here together too long. and understand our exigencies too much. to try to carry on an amendment on any such basis as somebody promised me. it should stand or fall on its own merits. depending on the situation which our country faces . but i only state this as background. to show that this is  some new idea we have brought up. but a matter of the greatest importance. what it raises is the question of whether the united states. through this legislation. shall assure those who are unemployed beyond the duration of the unemployment period for which they are covered by the mal unemployment compensation an additional 13 weekswhich represents emergency unemployment compensation.
it would. we have the standard of the insured unemployment plus the fact that reason would prevail about those who would have exhausted their benefits. being counted instead of  being counted. because they have  had the misfortune to be unemployed for so long. one final thing. the question of cost. including those who have exhausted their benefits. the estimate in terms of millions of dollars per annum is $224 million federal and $212 million. state. . if we continue to exclude those who have exhausted their benefits which seems completely unreasonable. the cost would be. ratheri am sorry. the first figure. that is. if we include those who have exhausted their benefitsand i beg the senates pardon. if they will hear meit is $319 million. federal. and $303 million. state. that is federal and state. if we continue to exclude those who exhausted their benefits. the costs are 244 and 212. respectively. unemployment compensation represents a tax. employers pay unemployment compensation taxes. whether or  these sums would represent any additional charge upon employers depends upon the particular state of the unemployment insurance fund in each state. if states have been provident in respect of their unemployment insurance funds and have adequate resources in those funds. state tax increase would be required. so far as the states are concerned which do  have any kind of kitty of that character. those stateswe do  k just which ones. for obvious reasonsmight conceivably be compelled to adjust their unemployment compensation tax.
. i listened with great interest to the argument of the senator from louisiana. i had hoped we would  be drawn into an argument about hoing any commitment. i do  propose this amendment to the senate on any such ground. if the senator thought he was against it for substantive reasons the commitment is meaningless to him. it would be contrary to the oath of office if someone claimed a commitment. we have individual consciences and duties. as a matter of fact. i do  think representative mills was engaging in fine spun legal theories. what he had in mind was the bill we had sent over there which we did  agree on in conference. which had the 4 percent unemployment concept. we are checking  because the recollection of my assistant is that this very provision respecting exhausted benefits was in that bill. as i say. we are checking. i have desire to put this on the basis of a commitment. but on equity. i do  believe this hackneyed argument that new york has to be whipped and 27 other states penalized because new york has to be whipped. i do  believe it is proper debate in the senate. new york is a respectable state with the second greatest population in the country. time and time again i have stood on this floor and fought for little states. it would be a matter of pride to me if new york were ineligible under this. but this is my duty. i am. a senator of new york in the state legislature. i am a senator of the united states. so i hope the senate will pass on this on the merits as a matter of equity.
i thank the senator from connecticut. what the senator from louisiana asked us to do is to stand on our heads. because 4.3 is probably  the figure. these are adjusted figures. they are  comparable figures as to how much unemployment there is. it is about onehalf of 1 point. it was 5.5. it is  4.3. the 4.3 figure is misleading.
i would first like to express my gratification for having worked with the senator from new jersey to bring out the measure which is  pending before the senate. we shall stand together in respect of what i believe is a matter of basic justice for the american people. a redress of grievances that is long since overdue. this is a bill which is at least 1 year after its time. it is a bill which will enable lowincome workers to provide themselves and their families with the essentials of life. . ever. time minimum wage legislation is considered by the congress. the opponents make prophecies of ecoic doom. first. they claim that a minimum wage increase would be inflationary. the answer to this argument is that the historical record indicates the previous increases in the minimum wage have had discernible effect on the problem of inflation. indeed. more than . and as is the case . we have raised the minimum wage in order to. catch up with inflation. in the ecoic stabilization act congress has especially exempted workers with incomes of less than $3.50 an hour from the ecoic stabilization program. in my view. that exemption represents a congressional determination that the burden of fighting inflation should  fall on lowincome workers. who certainly bear responsibility for the inflation and perhaps are most adversely affected by it. also. the existence of the stabilization program should  be viewed as a deterrent to increases in the minimum -wage but rather as an added reason why we can safely raise the minimum wage -. because it will restrain any ripple effect. actually. although there has been a great deal of discussion of the socalled ripple effect of minimum wage increases. the studies conducted by the department of labor. which are described in a committee report. pages 1012. have  substantiated the existence of any significant ripple effect from previous increases in the minimum wage. the direct cost impact of the increases provided in s. 1861 is 0.5 percent of payroll during the first year. 0.4 percent during the second year. 0.3 percent during the third year. and 0.01 percent during the fourth year. given the fact that any ripple effect 24360: would  appear to be substantial. and the fact that greater increases in the minimum wage have been absorbed easily in the past. there is merit to the charge that the increases provided in s. 1861 would be inflationary. the second claim made by opponents of minimum wage legislation concerns alleged disemployment effects. unquestionably. certain ecoists believe that an increase in the minimum wage may produce adverse employment consequences. especially for the poor. unskilled workers whom the flsa is designed to benefit. this is aher kind of doomsday prophecy which we have heard before but which has been contradicted by cur experiences in connection with previous increases in the minimum wage. the -overwhelming weight of the evidence is to the effect that increases in the minimum wage have  produced negative effects on unemployment. particularly when they have occurred in times of rising ecoic activity such as we are  experiencing. i ask unanimous consent that a table prepared by the department of labor showing the unemployment rate on the effective date on each of the changes in the minimum wage law since 1950 and the rate 6 months and 1 year before and after such effective dates be printed in the record.
as the table shows. in the vast majority of cases. the unemployment rate for both youths and adults was less 6 months and 1 year after the effective date of the minimum wage change than it was on the effective date of the change. moreover. in many of those instances. the unemployment rate had actually been higher before the change than on the effective date of the change or 6 months or a year thereafter. the table does show that in the changes in 1969 through 1971 unemployment rates increased for both youths and adults. however. it should be borne in mind that the increases in those years affected only the relatively small number of employees who were first covered under the 1966 amendments. on the whole. the figures clearly indicate that the ecoy has absorbed past increases in the minimum wage rate greater in percentage than those which would be provided under s. 1861 with discernible adverse effects on employment. it is true. of course. that an increase in the minimum wage will inevitably result in some localized instances of adverse employment effects. but what our historic experience shows is that such local effects are minimal. indeed. the ecoic effects studies conducted by the labor department during the past years. many of which have focused on the effects of minimum wage changes in special industries. have virtually all shown little or adverse employment effects from changes in the minimum wage. for example. in agriculture the fact is that although farm pmployment generally has declined. the decline has been less on covered farms that it has on covered farms.
 would  unless he is more doctrinaire than i think he is. veto the bill on the ground of the minimum wage. because even the substitute takes the minimum wage to $2.20. albeit 2 years later than the bill of the senator from new jersey and myself. and even higher than that. to wit. makes a commitment 3 years later to go to $2.30. so the essential thrust of the substitute. as it is put forth by the proponents. is  very much different as far as concerns its effect on inflation. on business confidence. and so forth. the establishment of the increase which the committee recommends. the $2. has beeni the m generally accepted for a year. and it has undoubtedly come to be expected to be enacted into law. and the least surprised of all in that will be the business community. aside from that. the only real place where the substitute materially differs from our bill is in respect of the various categories of coverage and the elimination or modification of certain minimum wage and overtime exemptions. the whole purpose of granting the exemptions is that they. were to be gradually phased out as soon as longer required. if we are going to have our feet fixed in concrete and just ask for studies when we phased out a number of the individual items. we will never bring them out of the exemption status. one statement i iced in the miity views which just is  true is that the bill my colleague from new jersey and me does  call for review of these exemptions. on the contrary. it does exactly that. i ask uanimous consent that section 14 of the bill that we reported from the committee be made a part of my remarks.
. it is amazing to me that the substitute does  even meet the administration recommendation. secretary brennan testified that the exemptions for agricultural processing should be modified. that testimony is found at pages 242 and 243 of the bearings record. he says: at one time the fresh food processing industry was in a very unusual position. since it is entirely dependent on the timing and abundance of agricultural produce for its perishable "raw materials." it was necessary to operate almost continuously during harvest season. a great deal of overtime work was required in order to process the fresh food coming in from the farms before it spoiled. advancements in techogy. however. have  made it possible for initial processing to be accomplished rapidly and overtime requirements have been reduced. that is backed by a study. the study is dated 1970. entitled "minimum wage and maximum hours studies under the fair labor standards act. agricultural and food producing industry." i ask unanimous consent that the conclusion of the study be printed in the record.
. i would like to make one or two points in closing. first. i wish to call attention to an article that has just come in. it is often thought that in new york and new jersey. big industrial states. we are  affected by minimum wage and that we are trying to shove it down the throats of the rest of the country. that is  so. the department of labor has annced the simultaneous filing of 52 civil injunction suits against new jersey and new york fiat track owners and trainers for violation of wage and hour laws. it could  be more pinpointed.
i should like to say. in the 30 seconds we have remaining. that i am gratified that the senator from colorado . the senator from ohio . and the senator from maryland agreed to keep the child labor provisions in the bill. on that we have all agreed.
. wonder we have a pool of people who do  want the jobs. they are  paid adequately. the argument is strong for this kind of measure in the elementary sense of restoring the pool of labor for the work. the other point is the difficulty in recordkeeping which he did. but i do  think the point has been made. the fact is that housewives pay social security today for those workers. from the figures i have. almost 1 million households. some 836.000. filed social security returns. they have to keep a record of the wages of that person. so they have the record. when one breaks down the figures on the number of domestic employees. it is found that 836.000 is a very representative number of the households which have fulltime domestics. because the breakdown shows that comes to 900.000. finally. on the law. which has been discussed here. there is a host of cases. we cite a list of cases at pages 23 and 24 of the committee report which justify this provision. finally. and really most important. domestic workers deserve to be on the level of a minimum wage. these are hard working people. and many of them are poor people from the miities and they need the dignity and recognition which social security has given them and they should be covered by the minimum wage. i believe we will have more and better domestic workers with this kind of policy than otherwise. our committee handles manpower legislation. and one of the elements of manpower training has been domestic service. we should in all good faith. if we are going to put money into this matter. at least guarantee a decent job with decent pay at the end of the road. which we have  done yet unless we pass this bill. which at long last includes domestics in this field. it is one of the real injustices of our society that domestic service has  been regarded as service deserving to be rewarded without discrimination equally with any other kind of work. if there is any place where dignity of work should be the decisive answer. it is in this field. the senate will be a ler body if it rejects the amendment and at long last gives recognition to this really depressed ecoic and social element in the community.
. i thoroughy agree with the amendment which covers areas of employment in both public and private institutions. i would like to have the recoan disclose clearly that there is aher part of this amendment. so that the senate ks exactly what it is voting on. i would like to ask the senator whether or  it is a fact that. at the behest of my colleague from new york . and myself. there was included in this amendment a provision which would take account of the fact that new york state. and other statesi am told it includes california. nevada. and other statesdo  qualify with respect to the socalled base year test in the employment of students under section 14(b) by virtue of the fact that they had a minimum wage of $1 an hour. or more. during the base years specified in that section. hence. retail and service establishments are precluded. under department of labor regulations. from counting and student hours worked during those base years. this amendment would relieve them of that artificiality and put them in the same class as other states. and they would  be penalized because they are ahead of other states in having a minimum wage.
. may i make aher suggestion. and that is that in view of the fact that we have just had a new director of the bureau of labor statistics appointed. the study be directed to be made by the bureau of labor statistics. that is. that: "the bureau of labor statistics shall conduct a study or studies or shall contract for a study or studies * *" rather than the secretary.
. this is an amendment which we knew was coming. we had worked out what we thought was a very fair disposition of it. i can agree with the senator from kentucky that it is a difficult matter to handle. every one of these matters has to have a sound ecoic basis. there is a very sound ecoic basis for separating the manufacturing and the retail employees. the basis is that if an individual shop is manufaturing a bakery product or a rocking chair. or whatever it does. it competes with other commercial manufacturers on the -same item. and those who must pay minimum rate are disadvantaged. the retailer is in a rather unique situation. rendering a high degree of service. and so forth. and the volume is different. i am  talking about the retailer engaged in a strictly retail function that does  have that same competitive relationship. he would he exempt. i believe the substitute which the senator from new jersey and i have proposed makes sense. this is a very fair solution of this matter. we want to respond to the ecoic reality of wishing to encourage the small producer. however. he should  be encouraged in a discriminatory way under a minimum wage bill. in determining the status of a worker. the general rule is that it depends on the preponderant element of his work. if he spends most of his time in the manufacturing industry. he is a manufacturing employee. and if he sells most of the time. he is a selling employee. if he does very little except perhaps sew on a button. he is obviously a retail employee. this matter can be made to sound complicated. it is  actually complicatedl it can be separated out. the senate considered an amendment as to whether a person living in a household is a domestic. it is a question of fact. many questions of fact have to be dealt with in this and in all other statutes. in all fairness. and for a very sound ecoic reason. i hope that the senate will  impair the strength of this bill by accepting the amendment as it is. but will rather accept the substitute which makes the discrimination far less.
. the question is answered by the fact that the rationale. whether the senator from kentucky agrees with it or . is that the man makes his own. he does  buy. and so the effort to establish a minimum wage is to equalize that competition. it is very real competition. there are people who make all these things. and if a man makes it in his own shop. he is  buying it from people who make it and are subject to the minimum wage.
am i correct also that amendment which says you should  fire somebody in order to hire somebody else under the pep programreally has substantive purpose other than to prevent cheating on that program. this would be improper and immoral. we are just locking it into the act.
subsequently said: . i am entirely satisfied with the unanimousconsent agreement which the majority leader has proposed. i wish to state for the record that that fact remained uncertain at the moment the unanimousconsent request was made. and for the information of the senate also i wish to repeat what was discussed in respect to the manpower training act which the senate passed by an overwhelming vote. s. 1559. at that time. we said we would do our utmost and make every goodfaith effort to work out a framework for this legislationthat is. the emergency employment act and the manpower training actwith the administration. we are doing our utmost to do that. and i feel that the labor department is also doing its utmost to try to come to a reasonable meeting of the minds on this subject. and it will require also very important consideration on the merits that we have talked aboutprocedure and so forthwith the members of the other body. i assure the senate that is the reason for setting this matter over until tuesday for that effort to be made. i can give the senate any information as to how it will come out except it is my assurance that there is a good faith effort in that regard. and there is the utmost cooperation on the part of the senator from wisconsin . the senator from ohio . and me in the hope that it can be accomplished. that is the reason for setting the matter over for a few days.
. we are on the road to substantial private pension reform in the senate and that road is the williamsjavits bill. after 3 years of prodigious efforts. backed by my original initiative over 7 years agowhen i introduced the first comprehensive private pension reform proposalthe senate committee on labor and public welfare. under the leadership of its chairman. the senator from new jersey . has brought to the senate a remarkably wellconstructed bill whose basic principles have apparently withstood also the searching test of the finance committee. i hope we shall have the opportunity to act on it soon and that any remaining committee problems are resolved intelligently and with a scrupulous regard for the true interests of american workers as they have been expressed in many hearings before the labor committee. the proximity of this legislation being enacted has brought about an irresistible urge on the part of some to "up the ante" but i hope we can resist these impulses and pass the fundamental reforms that the workers really need and want.
i believe they will. i may say to the senator. but also i think the fact that they will and the fact that legislation is almost ready on that score indicates that that is precisely what he is proposing. it is one thing to k how much money we are going to have. but we also have to k how to divide it. the question of division is  a financial question strictly. it is a question of high policy in the social field. we are entitled to the best kind of advice on that high policy. which will point very important directions to the country. i think we have good advice in the machinery of the council of ecoic advisers to deal with housing. technicalities involving tax credits. the effect upon the system of various methods of technicians. organizational problems. and the organization of problems of worker compensation. worker morale. and so forth. but i do  think the sophisticated nature of decisions on social policy are encompassed within that. they try to do it. but it is hardly their business. they are hardly trained for it. so the fact that one part of the bill is getting settled should help highlight the critical importance of the creative contribution of the senator from minnesota to the governmental machinery in the council of social advisers. i hope very much that we can get the effect of what he wants.
. coming back to the fundamental philosophical point. i would like to show how it works out in figures. the best figures we have been able to get on the basis of the criteria which the department of labor has already available for "persistent unemployment" is that some 406 areas of the country would be areas of substantial and persistent unemployment.
. in response to the point made by the senator from ohio. all we claim is that this is what the department of labor has . they have in the figures the current criteria and the current data. they say that there will be 406 areas. the senator from ohio may be correct in what he has written into his substitute. i can say. all i can say is what they tell us. they tell us that they have  information on what other areas could be included under the language of the substitute. the fact is that currently we have 947 areas under section 6. which is the 6 percentplus unemployment rate of this particular measure. so. i make claims of an affirmative character. we simply do  k what other areas could be covered under the taft substitute. all we can do is make claims of a negative character. that is all the information the department of labor can give us. i do it only illustratively. i do  wish to dispute with the senator from ohio about the finite and exact number of areas. except to point out the differences between the two approaches. his approach to public service employment and our approach to it in the bill. i gather that the senator from ohio approaches it from a different philosophical point of view. which is that of persistent unemployment. which leads us into the area of endemic unemployment and so on. the senate has to take its choice between these two concepts. i used the particular provisions we made for veterans merely to underline that the bill does follow the philosophical approach we claim. i find myself very much on the side of the issue represented by the bill. the issue is: shall we have a program to deal with unemployment once unemployment is above a 4.5 percent level nationally as a material component of manpower policy or shall we reserve public service employment only for the areas of "persistent" unemployment. i opt for the formula provided in our bill. i say frankly that we are facing the issue. we did  try to fudge in respect of the manpower training bill. we are  trying to get through the backdoor in order to have public service employment as a component of the manpower training bill. we hope that there will be minimum utilization of that fact in the manpower training bill. however. we face it frankly. we are dealing with an essential element when dealing with unacceptable employment rate. referring to about 200.000 of these public service employment jobs. so we provide for it by separate legislation and a separate appropriation. i wish to point out. too. incidentally. that under this bill the appropriations committee and the congress generally will have a choice in the funding of the general element and the element of $250 million which is specially provided for in this bill.
we see hing in the taft program which makes it differently usable from our program. it just has other criteria. as a matter of fact. it seems to me. because again the department of labor has  yet been able to give us the accurate data. that areas of persistent unemployment may well be in the big city areas. the slum areas. as they are to some degrees already under our bill. so i feel that it is just the reverse that. if anything. the taft program would be more inclined to go to the core of the elements of the big cities than even our program.
. whatever may be the dangers of inflation. they certainly are  going to be contributed to by establishing a basic and common decent wage for millions of americans. their purchasing power is  going to be increased to create major increased demand. it is simply going to be brought closer to a point where the government and welfare. and so forth. do  have to fill in for what the ecoic system should do. in addition. the bill is internally extremely well balanced in terms of the phased increases for those who are covered following 1966. when there was a major revision. as against those covered before 1966. and in terms of the new extensions respecting those who are getting the minimum wage. who were heretofore in callings which were exempt from it. but where we have always pledged ourselves to progress in that regard. and we are making some progress.
. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed at this point in the record excerpts from the report of the senate committee on labor and public welfare (93324) regarding title ii. including an explanation of needs. testimony before the committee on labor and public welfare. as well as a sectionbysection analysis of this title ii.
. this amendment goes to that part of the bill which is authored by the committee on finance rather than that part of the bill which is authored by the committee on labor and public welfare. which has been the special care of the senator from new jersey and myself. therefore i am  speaking for this one as manager of the bill with the senator from new jersey on the side of the bill as it came out of our committee. but i am speaking as an individual senator. i shall vote for the amendment although i voted against the last one. i lay aside senator nelsons heartfelt. i am sure. denunciation of our action allegedly favoring the rich. i consider it such act whatever. i think that the vote on the last amendment simply shows that we realize it takes two to make an ecoic systemthat is. labor and management. and that we do  want incentive taken away from management any more than we want incentive taken away from labor. if his argument for the $45.000 should be a valid one. then we should go the way that franklin d. roosevelt the elder wanted us to go. that is. to limit all incomes to $25.000 a year. or maybe even less. the average yearly wage of the rankandfile worker in this country today is something in the area of $12.000. obviously. that is  done in this society. it certainly has  worked in any other society either. so that i think the senator acted properly in what it did respecting an artificial roof on everything. there are many other safeguards in the bill as to equality. discrimination. limitation of tax deductibility. and so forth. but this particular amendment falls in a different category. for the finance committee has maturely considered this issue and has decided it is a fair limitation when applied to a given classto wit. a participant in what is called the proprietary corporations. that has been a loophole in the law as contrasted with the limitation of $75.000 for the individual selfemployed person. the finance committee. therefore. having come to a corisidered. factual decision on this issue. i think that the senator from wisconsin is right. that if the fact is it is a good decision for the proprietary corporations. then it is a good decision for other corporations as well. so i hope that the majority of the senate. laying aside whatever the senator from wisconsin has said about the rich and the poor. which is hardly calculated to win friends or influence people right . considering the previous vote. will. etheless. look at the substantive objective of the amendment. which is justified and i shall vote for it.
 i believe the various points of view have been exposed. and. of course. we can relieve all the horror stories that caused us to bring this legislation before the senate. that is why we spent $1 million for an investigation. those already affected k we can do anything about them. they want us to help others similarly situated. but there is a provision in the bill that deals with the point the senator from rhode island raised. it is section 669(a). on page 226 of the bill. which provides that. once the bill is passed. an employer can fire anybody with impunity to avoid pension responsibility. the secretary of labor will enforce that to protect the workers. i think that is introducing a totally new factor. and it is our effort to preserve the rights of whoever have the ability to have them preserved until this bill catches hold. that is why i think our plan is valid and the amendment ought to be rejected.
. i would like to inquire about the committees action and its intentions with respect to the amounts made available for enforcement of the fair labor standards act and related legislation by the employment standards administration of the department of labor. specifically. the committee report indicates that the budget. as submitted. contained a cut of $3.003.000 from last years level for minimum wage enforcement activities. and neither the senate  the house has taken any action to restore that cut. this is a matter of deep concern to me since it is really a continuation of a very disturbing trend. which has been going on since 1966. of cutting back on minimum wage enforcement authority. and at the same time imposing new responsibilities on the wagehour division of the employment standards administration. there are  about 250 less compliance officers on the staff of the wagehour division than there were in 1966. the committee report indicates that if this cut of $3.003.000 can be absorbed. as is claimed. with diminution of actual enforcement effort it would be inclined to look sympathetically at a supplemental appropriation request. i would like to ask the senator from washington for his comments on this particular matter.
. i have consulted senator baker. i have emous respect for his views. as the ranking member of the committee. i shall do everything i can to look very carefully into the situation. he ks that we do  control the hearingsthe majority dobut i shall do everything i can. in considering his views and the factual background. to obtain the hearings. i am a member of the committee on labor and public welfare. and i assure the senator that i will see that the utmost regard is given to his presentation of this matter and that it will be given earnest and prompt consideration.
. 3 days. ago the hoable wilfred jenks. the directorgeneral of the international labor organization died suddenly while in rome. italy. mr. jenks passing is a tragic loss both for the organization he so ably directed and for the cause of peace and understanding in the world. wilfred jenks became directorgeneral of the international labor organization in may 1970. after a career spanning nearly 40 years of the ilos half century of existence. for many years. mr. jenks had primary responsibility for the ilos work in relation to labor standards and human rights as well as for the preparation and organization of the annual international labor conference and the work of the ilos governing body. prior to his being made directorgeneral. he was actively involved in the establishment of all of the ilos major operational programs and the development of the ilos regional activities in latin america. asia. and africa. when wilfred jenks assumed his duty as directorgeneral of the ilo. a crisis immediately arose in the relationship to the united states to the ilo. our action in withholding dues payments. which i opposed at that time. created serious problems for the ilo. but under mr. jenks leadership. the crisis was weathered and the difficulties resolved. under wilfred jenks leadership also the ilo has moved in important new directions. including the commencement of the development of international fair labor standards to deal with the sensitive problems collateral to the new type of international business of multinational corporations as well as the general political repercussions of the emous increase in international trade which we have witnessed in recent years. the twin themes running through wilfred jenks work and his public statements were the need to provide both ecoic equity and true freedom of association for workers everywhere. an example of his devotion to these principles is a speech he made to the 10th anniversary ceremonies of the heads of state and government of the organization of african unity in may 1973. i ask unanimous consent that a copy of the speech be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
i should like to direct the attention of the senator from rhode island to amendment  5 entitled "contributions to international organizations." this title appropriates $200 million instead of $202.287.000 as proposed by the house and $185.357.750 as proposed by the senate. thereby making a reduction of $2.287.000 from the budget request which was the amount appropriated by the house. the managers report states specifically that this contribution shall be taken away from the international labor organization. the ilo has a budget request with us of $8.709.300. therefore. this is a 25percent cut. as this is an organization which we have been associated with for 50 yearsi believe it is at least that figureand it is a tripartite organizationmanagement. labor. and governmentdoing extraordinarily fine work throughout the world in labor matters especially in terms of labor conventions. endeavoring to elevate the standards of minimum compensation and conditions of work for workers throughout the world. i wonder whether the manager of the bill would be kind egh to tell us what his rationale is for the cut.
i thank the senator very much. it is also characteristic of the senator from rhode island. whose deep understanding of labor matters in the united states and throughout the world has characterized his most distinguished service in the senate throughout the years he has served here. i should like to point out. as adding to the record. that we had a considerable "flap" about this matter of the international labor organization. which resulted in some kind of dugin position by president meany of the aflcio. we went into arrears for a number of years to the great embarrassment of this country and the organization as well as the management. labor. and governmental delegates whom we send annually to the ilo. that was cleared up finally. and we are  pretty much in balance. but. here we go again. so that i welcome. and. as i said. it is quite characteristic of the distinguished senator from rhode island that he should have the deep feeling he does about this matter. i appreciate his assurances and i k that they will be carried out. i would only offer in every way my full advocacy and cooperation to the senator from rhode island at the proper time.
. reserving the right to objectand i hope  to objecti have one or two stipulations to make in that regard. one is that i wish to understand that a motion will  be made. at least by anyone herewe can control othersto table the amendment. i said i would agree to a 1hour limitation if i felt there was going to be motion to table. so that senators would  be buying a pig in a poke. this is an effort to deal with the unemployment compensation trigger which has affected many states. it is the one opportunity we have to deal with a bill which originates with the finance committee and then goes to the ways and means committee in the other body.
. and i ask unanimous consent that the table cataloging these estimates may be made a part of my remarks. this table. i e. was prepared on the basis of the amendment in the original form i introduced it. that is. with a 4.5 percent trigger and with exhaustees counted. the labor department has informed my office that the results under the amendment. as modified. should  be substantially different. i think it would also be useful to have printed in the record a table prepared by the labor department last june. showing its estimates for the fiscal year 1975 had their amendment been enacted into law then.
second. may i ask this of the senator from colorado: i understand it to be his intention to propose. as an amendment to the daylight saving bill. the minimum wage bill introduced by him and senator taft. it would be my intention. utilizing such procedures as are available in the senate. to contest that particular amendment. i rise to inquire whether it would be the intention of the senator from colorado to allow the daylight saving part of that bill to be debated first. without in any way losing his rights. because i have other things which i need to do until 1 oclock. or whether he would intend to move right in and act on the amendment.
 has shown this. we may  agree with the conditions he sets. but they are ongoing. probably a halfdozen negotiations of the same typa. we believe that is sensible and fair and should go forward. and we intend to do so. i think that is the way to compromise and i do  believe. in all honesty. that going this route of adopting this amendment here. with or without the taft amendment. is going to advance us along that line. to compromise there will have to be something compromised on the wage rate. on the domestics issue. and something on the exemptions and other issues. for example. one of the exemptions at issue is the exemption for chainstores. enterprises doing more than $250.000 a year.
if i may. i would like to finish my remarks. as to the wage rate proposition. there are different schedules. it is very significant. and i would like to call to the attention of the senate that if we had adopted the approach of the senator from colorado to this matter last year we would  be at the $2anhour phase because 1 year has elapsed. yet the bill submitted to us as an amendment carries a $1.80 minimum wage for 1973 and does  take us to the $2 rate even under the taftdominick proposal until 1974.  the senate rejected this approach on july 18. 1973. by a vote of 57 to 40. it rejected in substance the same approach in 1972 by a somewhat closer vote of 48 to 46. this approach has been rejected by the house quite recently. again by a relatively close vote. but rejected. it seems to me under all those circumstances that the sounder course for us to pursue is to go forward on the effort which the senator from new jersey and i initiated here to try to bring about what would really be worked out as a compromise. to wit. working out some bill with the administration. hopefully with the concurrence of the senator from colorado and the senator from ohio. who are distinguished and constructive members of our committee. in the hope that a compromise will become law and do all the things which all of us want it to do.
i would say this: the differences which the senator has mentioned exist and are significant. but i would  like to say. because it is  true. just the wage rate. after all. a 20cents difference in the wage rate is 10 percent. that is  just the wage rate. that is a considerable amount as a base under the whole wage ctructure. so while i would agree with the senator that other issues are important. i would also have to contend that the wage is important and that it is a material factor that the senator again. even after 2 years. starts with the $1.80.
if. senators who are moving in this way wish a minimum wage bill to be passed at this session. i think * that we can come to a compromise with them and then seek a compromise with the other body. that. i believe. holds some promise. we certainly want a minimum wage bill. we have contended for it for a long time. it seems to me that that is the way to get at it. these extrapolations that maybe it is and maybe it is  close to what the administration wants. the administration may change its mindit has done it beforebecause of an energy crisis. or for some other reason. so even if we did what our colleagues want us to do. the president might veto this bill. and we would be  one step further along. but would be further behind than we are today. thus. i deeply believe that these steps. which are well intentioned. are premature. that the road is clear by which we might get some action. but this is  it. i hope very much that the senate will decide accordingly.
. i wonder in what form. at what time. and under what circumstances. if at all. the authors of the bill which was referred to the judiciary committee sought a hearing before the committee on labor and public welfare. i would be very much interested in getting that information.
i hope the senator will forgive me if ii think i have almost exhausted the subject. but i have the greatest respect for the senator and. if he wishes. i will answer the question. the ecoic opportunity act. the socalled antipoverty program. has been in the constant jurisdiction of the committee on labor and public welfare from the beginning. this goes back almost a decade. one of the elements of the ecoic opportunity act is the legal services program. hence. when the matter involved amendments with respect to the extension of the ecoic opportunity act of 1964. the amendments have invariably been referred to the committee on labor and public welfare. that is the reason for this measure and the reason why the committee reported the bill. i repeat. had any other committee sought to assert jurisdiction over the measure. the methodologies of the senate which are practiced. the procedure would have permitted that committee to seek to have it referred. but that did  happen in this case. that is the best information i can give the senator.
. i submit this amendment for myself. senator kennedy. and senator percy. this is senator kennedys amendment. i am in sympathy with it and support it. and i urge it upon the senate. senator percy has joined me in this. all the amendment would do would be to insert. as one of the criteria for considering the ecoic impact of regulatory and other actions on the american ecoy. the consideration of the effect on low- and middleincome families as defined by the bureau of labor statistics. i hope the amendment will be accepted.
there is still one problem that is  dealt with. and that is the problem of the miity of a committee. the ranking member on our side has to think about that. and for this reason. if a miity of the committee wishes to make some determined opposition to action of the majority. it needs an opportunity to do that. and it can be rushed. this does  mean an idinate time but an intermediate time. therefore. i respectfully suggest to the leadership that they deal with that problem. perhaps  this minute or today. but it is a problem. i say that as a ranking member of a number of committees where occasionally we get very hot issues. i would like to give an example. on the minimum wage bill a miity of the miity had its own bill and this presented quite a problem to the miity itself. so i would suggest a longer period. as there is specified period for a committee. suppose a majority of the committee wants to hold the bill for 4 months. 6 months. or a year. obviously that is  what is contemplated. finally. there should be an understanding of a miity that wants to be organized as a miity.
in the first place. it is unemployment compensation which is involved. or workmens compensation which is involved. and the fundamental requirement depends upon state law. but as i recall it. it is mally a year.
much of this employment does  end in the summer. last year i had a child involved in it. most of those operations continue throughout the year. also. the fact is that local workers were hired. this represents an unemployment compensation which would be paid so that the argument respecting discrimination in terms of discouraging the hiring of local workers is a valid one. there would be exemption for local workers at all.
 so that we may have one fact clear. i would like to get. for the record. some definition of the qualification for unemployment compensation. the best i am able to get. in the short time we have. is that the number of states that have approved is 13. i do  wish to vouch for the accuracy of this number in the imperfect state of the information i have. based on the qualifications of earnings. which is between $300 and $800 earned in more than one quarter. a number of states--our number is 12have approved. as the number of weeks of employment. as a prerequisite. ranging from 14 to 26. i state these facts only as an order of magnitude rather than in great specificity. and as throwing some light on the point which was raised
. i am pleased to join my distinguished colleagues in this tribute to stewart mcclure who retired at the end of last year after some 30 years of government service during which time he served as staff director and as chief clerk of the committee on labor and public welfare. of which i am the ranking miity member. i first had an opportunity to become acquainted with stew mcclure when i joined the committee on labor and public welfare in the 86th congress in 1959. i have since come to appreciate his devotion to the committee. the resources of his experience and kledge. and his willingness to be of service to all members on both sides of the aisle. on behalf of myself and my colleagues of the miity. i wish stew mcclure well for the years ahead. he merits our approbation and our good wishes.
 of the american bar association. on march 1. 1973. before the house committee on education and labor to the same effect. and i ask unanimous consent that excerpts from his testimony with introductory comments on that point printed in the record.
. during the 1st session of the 93d congress. 1973. the republican miity of the committee on labor and public welfare. of which i am the ranking miity member. made again a distinctive record of constructive contributions and effective legislative achievement. it is gratifying to e that in a number of instances. the central concepts around which major legislation was built originated on the miity side. these contributions cover all areas of activity of the committee. i ask unanimous consent that a report i have prepared on these contributions be printed in the record.
. i want to add two points. first. we do have a domestic minimum wage requirement in new york. i have  heard a single discussion of any kind about any disemployment there. domestics are still highly in demand withstanding the minimum. second. the exclusion factor must be judged by one point in this amendment. under this amendment the 24hour test applies to one employer. the whole nubbin of this thing is to give a sense of dignity to that domestic employed in domestic service. much as we did in the old days to the itinerant workers. frequently they may work for four or five families during 1 week. we do it in our case. in our household. why confine it to the oneemployer test. which is what the dominick amendment does. for all the reasons stated. therefore. by senator williams. and the additional reason i have mentioned. and especially the experience. i oppose the amendment. we actually do it in a big industrial state with 10 percent of the countrys population. and it has  caused any trouble at all. it reminds me. just to finish. going back almost 30 years. of the time when we first had a bill to stop discrimination in employment on account of race. which was kn as the ivesquinn bill. senators will remember senator irving ives. who served here with some of us. including. i think. the senator from rhode island . the same thing was said about it. i was the attorney general of new york. and administered that bill. it was the most tranquil thing in the world. such revolution broke out. any more than it would with this. what we are talking about is $1.80 an hour. what selfrespecting person would pay a person who does all that drudgery less than $1.80 an hour. so i certainly hope the senate will reject the amendment. i believe it is high time that this reform was made in behalf of the almost 3 million americans engaged in the kind of work we want the most.
s letter on this subject recognizes that fact. i think the momentum will be blocked and perhaps permanently lost if we get into a side jurisdictional squabble like this one. as the senator from rhode island has just so eloquently stated. that is reason  1 which is conclusive. those who want the minimum wage billand many do but for those who want it. whatever they may think about daylight saving time. they should vote to table. the second point. and equally important. is this: if we want to get a germane amendment onto a bill. at least pick a bill of the committee which has the jurisdiction. then there is always the possibility that we can work it out with the house. but to put it on a bill to which it is  germane and pick a committee which has hing whatever to do with daylight saving time. makes it impossible. so that if we lock it in. we absolutely block something that could go. i am speaking  to those who favor the amendment repealing daylight saving time. we do  even do that efficiently because we are putting it on a bill with a committee that has jurisdiction. so i say. pick an interstate commerce bill if we want to try that gambit. but they are  even doing that.
that is exactly right. we all k around hereit is said every day a hundred times--that we all k how to count. so there is use in my appealing to those who are against the minimum wage bill. i do  question their good faith or sincerity. i am appealing to those who are for the bill and we seem to be twothirds of the senate. so let us  kill it. let us support the pastore motion.
0 * the decisive difference in respect to youth unemployment seems to be discrimination on grounds of color. even though it is unlawful. because black unemployment is twice that of white unemployment for teenagers. it is also because of the deficiencies in manpower training and the lack of skill. which is attributable to lack of training but present law allows learners and apprentices to have special minimum rates.  only would we  do anything decisive by reducing the rate for youth generally. which is what the buckley amendment seeks to do. we would also open the door to its abuse. because as union labor fears and has for years. there will be a revolving door for youth employment at 15 percent less than the minimum wage and we will be depriving adults of job opportunities without doing the youth any good. adequate to compensate for the harm we would be doing generally. interestingly egh. the buckley amendment is even tougher on the youth differential than the dominicktaft substitute. which was turned down yesterday. for example. the buckley amendment puts time limit on jobs at subminlmum rates for 16and 17yearolds. how long they may be employed at lower rates.  does it restrict 18and 19yearold students to parttime work. this amendment would cover fulltime work. and so it merely increases the very danger which organized labor fears from this amendment. secondly. we lawyers have a doctrine called the doctrine of deminimus. what we are talking about here is a 15percent discount. the 15percent discount. in my judgment. and i have represented many employers in my days. does  make an employer determine that he is going to hire a teenager. unless he is really anxious to cut dowr his wage bill by hiring youths instead of adults. whether it is put on the basis of wasting material or  doing the job adequately. in my judgment businessman is going to run that risk for. a 15percent discount. if he can pay him $1.70 and he is a good worker. he will pay him $2. if he needs training. the law provides a differential already. all the buckley amendment would do. then is to open the door to unlimited exploitation. this is essentially an open door to those who want to get a discount on the minimum wage for general business purposes. and  particularly because they want to employ youth. finally. we have all the studies made for years. which bear out the statement that this has decisive effect. first. i invite the attention of senators to the book which is on the desk of each senator. i invite them to look at the background material on. fair labor standard. on page 240. which is a chart and it shows the effect on teenage employment by increases in the minimum wage. if senators will look at the years before 1969. when there were even greater percentage increases in terms of the absolute minimum wage than this bill provides. youth employment improved than failed to improve. in the years 196971 youth unemployment worsened. but in those years there were general increases in the minimum wage and there was a recession. at the very least. the overall employment statistics neither prove or disprove the fundamental thesis upon which this amendment is based. in addition. the labor department has made some very important studies with respect to this situation. for example. in the 1968 manpower report of the president. a complete section was devoted to the problem of "bridging the gap from school to work." the excerpt to which i refer is at page 53 of the committee report on this bill. the very te of the report. which i beg senators to read. is very important as bearing on this subject factually. the te of that report is that. again. there is decisive effect in the minimum wage regarding the inducement to the individual employer to employ youths. as a matter of fact. what the senate did. and it forced its will. i am happy to say. in the summer youth corps program. and what we will do in respect of manpower and manpower training. is infinitely more vital. i can say any more than senator buckley said--quite characteristically of himthat he can guarantee that adult would be displaced by a youth who is employed. i can say that youth will get a job which he would  ctherwise have gotten unless we allow the 15percent differential. but our problem is  the individual case. our problem is the whole fate of the bill. and whether it is worth it fgr what this amendment asks us to do. definitely. in my judgment. i come down on the side that it is . . i ask unanimous consent to have that excerpt printed in the record.
also. it will be ed that section 14(a) of existing law gives very broad authority to the secretary of labor to make any differentials.  just the 15 percent. provided that the secretary sets the conditions as to time and number and proportion and length of service. and provided that the use be in the area of learners. apprentices. or messengers employed in delivering letters and messages and that they be under special certificates. to the extent that training is determined to be necessary for youths. section 14(a) provides for special minimum wage rates to be paid. i do  understand why any additional authority is necessary. it seems to me that this answers the only additional point my colleague raised that youth is  worth the wage of the adult because he needs training. i would like to say. . that i feel that american business has by and large  pressed for the youth differential. one thing that has always puzzled me in the argument over the youth differential is to what extent american business will use it unless it is to cut or trim employment. this is a place where they can show their good faith. they can use section 14(a). and if the response from the secretary of labor is unsatisfactory. this is subject to legislative oversight in the labor and public welfare committee. we will do our utmost to correct that. for all of those reasons. we stand by our position respecting this particular provision of the bill.
i should like to say that we are working something out with a member of the committee who has these studies. first. to state the problems the amendment raises: first. the requirement for a report from three agencies one agency of government. the agency directly in chargepresents us with the complexity of having a diversity of counsels and therefore the validity of e. in addition. it imposes responsibilities on the secretary of commerce. who is  within the jurisdiction of our committee but of the commerce committee and of the council of ecoic advisers. my belief is that they are primarily within the jurisdiction of the banking. housing and urban affairs committee. so that i would hope again. in this bill. as we have tried to make it clear to our members. we only deal with what is within our competence. therefore. i would hope he might consider. withstanding his concerns. confining this to the secretary of labor. second. and perhaps as a tradeoff for what he would consider a concession. i would suggest he call for the first report within a 1year period of timethat is. the first report to come in within 1 year and subsequent reports at 2year intervals. then he will have the basis for proceeding promptly. third. on line 4. page 2. 1 would hope he would strike the word "broad." i do  want to expand on or to contract the authority of the secretary of labor under section 14 by this amendment. therefore. let us stick to the word "authority" which is a word of art we all understand. the word "broad" i do  k what it does or what it means. and i hope that he would strike that word. cxx---362part 5 lastly. i hope the senator would accept my assurance and that of the manager of our bill on the majority side that when he gets such a report. and we will see to it that he gets it within a year. making that tradeoff as it were. so that he gets a more prompt report. he has a hearing on that report which it will be understood. if he wishes to produce witnesses such as the secretary of commerce or his proper representative. or the council of ecoic advisers or their proper representative we would join to facilitate that. . in answer to the senators point that. well. they will  be apprised of the change. they could be ified . and when this bill has been passedwhen. as and if there is a reportthere will be a hearing and we will expect them to be prepared for that hearing. that they should coordinate with the secretary of labor accordingly. . that is a complete mosaic to deal with the problem. as i say. i should like very much just to go along with the senator rather than to resist. i hope he might see his way clear to fit all the parts together and work out an amendment which the manager and i could accept.
if the senator will allow me. on my time. i should like to say that we are  being arbitrary about ecoic expertise. in the first place. i doubt that the senator can show us any statement by the secretary of labor that he does  have the ecoic expertise to make a report of this kind on a labor matter. be that as it may. our point is that we can impose a duty on the secretary of commerce and the council of ecoic advisers. it is  within our primary legislative oversight and really is a duplication in effort which we would be imposing by this bill. willynilly. whether we could do it or . as a matter of fact. it might materially hold up any hearing which would get recourse for the very thing the senator from ohio wants. because the timing may be very different for all these departments. we may drag along here for months. waiting for the council of ecoic adivsers. which would probably have to deal with the matter in its annual report. if it would deal with it at all. i think we are striking out in an area where we do  have control or an ability to impose control. and therefore i. am really disappointed. the senator is disappointed with us. and i am sorry. i am disappointed that the senator will  make to us the very slight concession which we ask. the ability to get it done the way he wants it done with a hearing is. in my judgment. unquestioned. and i think i have a little experience in these matters. the important thing for the senator is to get the study amendment. and we gave it to him. but dq  make us impose duties on the secretary of commerce and the council of ecoic advisers.
. the state of miity business enterprises today shows encouraging signs while plagued by discouraging statistics. in a speech to the contractors association of boston on march 2. my good friend and colleague. senator brooke. presented a most compelling analysis of the plight and portent of miity business. his analysis and recommendations underscore the challenges and opportunities of american business and labor to insure that all americans get a piece of the ecoic action. i commend to my colleagues senator brookes speech and ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record.
. as the matter stands in the bill 80 percent of the medium income maximum for lowincome tenants was couplec. with a provision allowing 20 percent of the units to be up to median income. that was defined as being within the discretion of the mortgagor. the developer or the housing authority. from the point of view of the cities. although it is a painful choice. we believe we are better off by omitting the 20 percent. the onefifth. to take us to the higher 90 per centum limit in order to get a consistent limit comparable to what has been done in section 402 for section 402 homeownership. by this amendment we increase the 80 percent to 90 percent. but strike out the 20 per centum discretion up to median income vested in the hands of the mortgagor completely so that the flat figure becomes the same in section 402. or 90 percent. i hope that the compromise is acceptable.
. i conclude with the fact that in my judgment the enactment of this legislation especially with the commitments. expressed by responsible trade union leaderswill bring more. rather than less. stability to labor management relations in the health care industry. i hope very much that the senate will pass this measure
. the point is that the people on the ground. who are having negotiationslabormanagement negotiationshave themselvesand certainly one would think that a tool such as that suggested by the senator from colorado (mr. domimck) would be very appealing to themetheless. they feel. from the point of view of pragmatic relationships with labor. they are better off without it. it is  egh. it does  compensate them for the disadvantages. as i say. this provision has flushed out four declarations of principles from the highest union sources. which i think are more valuable to us. i believe it is fair to say that they would  consider themselves bound by their declarations if we adopted this amendment. in addition to that. i do  think this legislation will go anywhere with this provision in it. but i should like to say this to the senator from colorado. because he was  here when i spoke before. i am  trying to persuade him. i greatly admire his consistency and convictions in this matter. i simply call attention to what i said before. it seems to me that these commitments we have from the unions. although i realize that the senator from colorado does  feel that it is an adequate tradeoffbut it seems to me that with the commitments we have from the unions. it possibly puts us in a stronger position to act on an ad hoc basis if we run into particularly nasty situations. we have done that in some cases where a regional strike occurred. to wit. the longshoremen on the west coast. it seems to me that we need this bill. that it will. in fact. stabilize labor relations in this field. and that the total tradeoffand that is what it isthe senator from colorado (mr. domncx) is entitled to his opinion. and i k that it is equally sincere and valid as my ownbut i am firmly convinced that we are better off with the bill as it  stands together with the commitments to voluntary arbitration i have received.
as a matter of fact. is it  true that this was our big problem in committee. the problem of opening up the national labor relations act. many reforms are in the minds of many of our members. and i deeply believe. myself. there should be an opportunity to explore the act in hearings and have various ideas submitted. and perhaps we are in need of some sessions to revise the act. which has to be done periodically with regard to any law. including labor law. this bill is designed for a specific purpose at a specific time. to stabilize relations in a particular field. i think if we open up the act to the many arguments that occur on the various purposes of it. we are going to end the chance for getting done what needs to be done in the hospital field. we are dealing with 15.000 matters a year which are unfair labor practice complaints. if this amendment were to pass. they will inundate the federal courts. which are busy egh. second. it will jettison an emous body of expertise and precedent which has been built up already by going into a new form. third. and most important. it will do exactly what labor is really concerned about. which is to offer the opportunity emously to extend adjudication by injunction. because that is the essential point of the amendment. we will have an injunction issue from a forum which can proceed  only on basic principle cases filed by the general counsel. but on private cases also. so that we are taking on an emous load. it would just break the back of the bill and will. in addition. serve useful purpose. it will mean we will have to revise the labor laws of the country. which we can hardly do at this time and season.
. i do  k the reason why this amendment is presented with respect to the national labor relations act. but it is. first. unnecessary. there are a number of other ways in which this is already being done. second. it is a generic amendment. which goes. again. to changing the national labor relations act in a broad way and at a time when we respectfully submit it is undesirable to do so. and therefore would only bedevil this bill with a weight which it can and should  be asked to carry.
. what the senator from colorado has said illustrates accurately the reasons for the action we propose to take. there are cases which he wishes to cite and questions about the speed of the remedy which he wishes to deal with. which we would wish to deal with. this goes to the generic principles of the national labor relations act. at best. even if we accepted all his arguments on their face. it simply would break up our effort to deal with this matter on a unit basis. he may quarrel about whether the available remedies are quick or as direct or in the proper channels. but there are remedies. therefore. we do  face the kind of emergency situation which would justify for practical purposes weighting the bill down with broad amendments.
. i must concur that this represents an emous labor here and for us to run it down the drain with a series of amendments hardly seems fair to the men who labored for weeks under the gifted leadership of the distinguished senator from rhode island
. the idea of religious discrimination or discrimination on religious grounds is something to which we are all very sympathetic. of course. however. are we  also very deeply sympathetic to provisions barring all racial discrimination. yet i have moved to table such an amendment which has been characteristic of my whole public and private life. i moved to table such an amendment myself. and it was tabled. the reason why i did so was  the merits or demerits of that issue. the essential fact is that if we open the door by any amendment. matter how plausible or how pleasing. to the national labor relations act. other senators can say. "ok. if you are going to start going into the national labor relations act. why  go into the whole thing from end to end." the senator from colorado says that he does  k when we will get aher labor bill on the floor of the senate. well. how do we ever get a labor bill on the floor. there are so many of them that are introduced.
. i do  consider it as closing the door or closing our minds. any senator. of course. can introduce a bill and offer an amendment. as the senator from colorado has done. the senate will then work its will and control. i make pretense that i have the right to close anything. as the ranking member of the committee with respect to this bill. so far as this side is concerned. i feel that i may express my view. so that if the bill has in it provisions relating to a generalized revision of the national labor relations act. it has much less chance of either being passed here or. what is more important. ever becoming law. if it gets through the conference. let us remember that we are dealing with a senate bill. it has to go to the house. there are many amendments which senators can feel justified in trying to have accepted. once we make these as traditional christmas tree measuresand we have done that to many other measuresin my judgment. that will doom the measure. but there is closed door or closed mind about it at all. the fact is that any member can introduce a bill or any member can introduce an amendment. the senator from colorado is a very senior member of our committee. he can contend in the committee. as many of us have in the past. for an opportunity to review the whole national labor relations act and amend it. we did  contemplate. at least i did  and i do  think the committee did. that this bill would be made such a vehicle. one of the dangers of bringing any bill to the floor regarding unionizationand we may have one regarding agriculture. too. which will come along in due courseis that it may be made the vehicle for aher complete review of the labormanagement statutes. something which would have this measure carry a weight which it can support.
to be the conferees on the part of the senate. the message also annced that the senate disagrees to the amendments of the house to the bill entitled "an act to amend the national labor relations act to extend its coverage and protection to employees of profit hospitals. and for other purposes." agrees to a conference requested by the house on the disagreeing votes of the two houses thereon. and appoints mr. williams. mr. randolph. mr. pell. mr. nelson. mr. eagleton. mr. hughes. mr.
i thank the senator. i also wish to thank the senator from louisiana for the consideration which has gone on for a long time in the enactment of short extensions and  an extension for 1 year which is more commendable with respect to the unemployment situation we have. this amendment would continue for 1 year the waiver of the unrealistic requirement that in order to trigger into the extended benefits program a states insured unemployment rate must  only equal or exceed 4 percent. but must also be 20 percent higher than that states rate for the comparable month of the preceding 2 years. this amendment is similar to amendments which the senator from connecticut and i have offered several times before. and which have been enacted into law on a temporary basis four times in the past 2 years. because of the current waiver. the following 24 states are currently eligible for the extended benefits program: alaska. california. connecticut. delaware. hawaii. idaho. maine. massachusetts. michigan. minnesota. montana. nevada. new jersey. new mexico. new york. th dakota. oregon. pennsylvania. puerto rico. rhode island. utah. vermont. washington. west virginia. without this amendment. only michigan and delaware of the 13 states currently paying extended benefits. and e of the 11 states currently eligible to pay benefits. but  doing so. would maintain their eligibility for the program after june 30. according to the most recent labor department estimates furnished to me. if this amendment is enacted into law. about 1.400.000 workers who would otherwise exhaust their unemployment benefits during the 1year term of this amendment could become eligible to receive 13 additional weeks of compensation. the actual number of beneficiaries would depend on how many states decide to participate in the extended benefits program under this amendment. these workers must  be denied critically important benefits merely because these states have experienced chronically high unemployment rates. indeed. it makes little difference to the individual unemployed worker searching for an adequate job whether or  the current unemployment rate in his state is 20 percent higher than the rate in 1 or 2 of the preceding years. this amendment is particularly important  that we see the national unemployment rate rising again from already unacceptably high levels. this matter first came before the senate in the fall of 1972. at that time. the senate passed an amendment similar to the provisions of the amendment we are introducing today. that provision was weakened and made temporary by the housesenate conference. when that conference report was brought to the floor of the senate. the senator from california and i expressed our concern about the need for enacting legislation to aid the states which had triggered out of the extended benefits program. at that time. the chairman of the house ways and means committee. and the chairman of the senate finance committee assured us on the floor of the house and senate. respectively. that if. during the winter of 197273 the insured unemployment rate was over the 4percent level in those states that would have benefited from the amendment we were then offering. but were  helped by the amendment adopted by the conferees. they would sympathetically consider legislation along the lines of our amendment. . i ask unanimous consent that excerpts from the congressional record of october 18. 1972 containing those statements which i have referred to by the chairman of the house ways and means committee and the chairman of the senate finance committee be printed in the ecord at this point in my remarks: congressional recordhouse page 37098. congressional recordsenate page 37319.
. i ask unanimous consent that i may have included at the end of my remarks a chart prepared by the labor department showing the number of potential beneficiaries of this amendment on a statebystate basis. and the potential maximum cost of this amendment also on a statebystate basis. together with a copy of a letter cosigned by myself and 19 other senators. which was sent to the chairman of the finance committee urging acceptance of this amendment.
. in balancing the interests of organized labor and the hospital associations. even in my own city. which has suffered such a dreadful strike in this field. and in considering the disposition of major international unions to seek voluntary but binding arbitration in healthcare field. together with the urgency of regularizing employment in this field through the application of the national labor relations act. i believe the balance falls heavily on the side of approval of the conference report. and i hope the senate will approve it.
there is reason in the world why this matter should  be discussed or why anybody should be rushed into it. but we thought. and i think it is fair to say this for senator ribicoff and myself. that the matter was very clear. i k senators are too sophisticated to be bedazzled by the argument that it has  been discussed and it should be discussed. . every senator ks the delicacy of labormanagement relations. and every senator ks the strength of the parties in the labormanagement relation situation. we are accused of foisting this consumer protection agency bill on the american businessman who does  need this kind of protection. or the american consumer who does  need this kind of protection. that argument lies triply against this effort. of all the people who do  need the consumer protection agency. it is big unions and big management before the national labor relations board. so they should  be in this bill any more than these proceedings for granting licenses before the ftc. orand i would like to call my colleagues attention to page 86 of this billthe central intelligence agency. would my colleagues like to include that. or the federal bureau of investigation. or the national security agency. or the national security or intelligence functions of the department of defense. there are some things that just do  fit.
. suppose a trade union was trying to sell something to its members. this bill would apply. the only thing we exempt is this delicate. highly cxx- 1487part 18 complex. highly juridical relationship relating to the collective bargaining before the nlrb. that is the thrust of what i meant when i said that these are  the parties who are within the ambit of this bill and. therefore. the exemption would be proper.
. though this will be restated tomorrow. so that senators who read the record may see the issue clearly. the particular item to which we address ourselves today. about which the vote will take place at 4 oclock tomorrow. is contained at page 59 of the bill. lines 12 to 17. as the bill came to the government operations committee from the committee on commerce. the language which is stricken there was included as a part of the bill sent to us by that committee. that language effectively would bar the consumer protection agency from participating in labormanagement collective bargaining disputes before the national labor relations board. an amendment was added in our committee which sought to restore some of that authority to the consumer protection agency. which had been barred from that activity by the commerce committees draft. hence the motion which is  before us is a motion. on the first committee amendment. to have the senate approve that amendment. i shall vote " on that motion. for the reasons stated in the views. set forth in my supplemental views. which i have  inserted in the record. if. what the government operations committee added is stricken out. then the language sent to us by the committee on commerce will be the language of the jr bill. and that will effectively bar the consumer protection agency from na- i tional labor relations board proceedings t relating to collective bargaining agreements. e
if it actually happened. .t would break the back of the bill and break the back of the cpa. we have seen an example of that. we would have the equal employment opportunity commission. which has some 65.000 suits as a backlog. and that is just with respect to discrimination in employment. that is  with respect to collective bargaining agreements. we have the nlrb. which operates one of the most trying operations of quasijudicial character in the government. obviously. there are many ways by which to kill a bill. one way is to break its back. and that is what this bill is all about.
may i say that i will produce tomorrow. because i am the ranking member of the committee on labor and public welfare. the details on the nlrb. its budget. its staff. the number of its cases. the number of its hearing examiners. i deeply believe that if the senate will listen to us in terms of the facts. the whole case will be selfevident.
the labor department. as the key to its oppositionwhich bears out the basic point that i have madesays that this matter has repercussions far beyond the confines of hawaii. it says of those who support this legislation that have concluded that the impact of the legislation on the collectivebargaining process would be minimal. we are  aware of substantial evidence to support such a conclusion. it is unclear that the present collective bargaining structure would be maintained. thus the prospective effect of such legislationmeaning this billis also unclear. we also e that there may be serious difficulty in maintaining service to the islands despite the intent to prevent disruption. because this legislation would require separating cargo bound for hawaii and the u.s. pacific islands from cargo bound for other locations. the ecoic feasibility of such a procedure is open to question. thus. there are many uncertainties concerning the balance between the adverse effect on the ecoy of these islands from strikes and the potential impact of this bill on the collective bargaining process in the maritime and longshore industries. therefore. we do  believe it advisable to enact s. 1566 at this time. in short. what the department of labor is saying is that this is too risky for the whole collective bargaining process. remembering that these unions are international unions and  just local as between the west coast and hawaii. these are unions which are national in their scope. hence what is done between hawaii and the west coast has a very material and adverse impact on collective bargaining with all unions. but certainly the maritime unions which affects us throughout the united states. . one other thing that is critically important in this matter. we may have a situation here where the injunction which is anathema to labor in the united states may make some men work. even on the west coast. and some  work. because all west coast business is  connected with hawaii. a good deal of business is coastal and goes to places in the world other than hawaii. so we would endeavor by this bill to carve out an enclave of workers who would be working while their fellows were on strike. which is  good for either the manufacturer or worker in respect to collective bargaining unions. finally. . we would be legislating in a highly specialized way on a matter which should be legislated in a national way. we have insisted that that is the way it should be done. and we have been trying very much to have that done. . let me point out why the tafthartley act. which is the only federal law permitting labor injunctions of a statutory kind. permits an injunction in a case where. if the strike or lockout were permitted to occur or continue. would imperil the national health or safety. this is section 206 of the national labor relations act and the operative section is 208(a) (ii). which says: * . . if permitted to occur or to continue. will imperil the national health or safety... therefore. our approach to tafthartley injunctions as they are called has been on a basis of a national emergency. as yet. there has been determination by the congress or the country that we should have injunctions of regional paralysis strikes. so. we have depended upon the ad hoc practices of the congress. and those have been exercised in quite a few cases. since 1963. there have been 10 such cases and in many instances strikes were completely avoided. in some cases. strikes were ended. and that goes also for the longshore strike about which senator fong spoke so feelingly a little while ago. let us remember that in the longshore case. the strike went on from july 1. 1971. to october 6. 1971. then there was a tafthartley coolingoff period until january 17. 1972. which was brought about very much by congressional pressure. and then the strike was renewed from january 17. 1972. to february 19. 1972. at which time it was settled. indeed. it was settled in principle the day we actually passed the legislation. so in that particular case. you had a long strike. but a strike that was interrupted. the other point that comes out of the legislation before us is thisand senator williams has emphasized that. and i would like to emphasize it further because it is critically importantpage 4. lines 2 and 3 of the bill which is before us. that is section 3 of that bill. relating to strikes or lockout says:
. i have consulted with the senator from new jersey . and it would be my intention at an appropriate time to move to recommit the bill to the committee on labor and public welfare. i shall deal with my reasons appropriately. but as i understand it the consumer protection agency bill is due to be brought before the senate at 3 p.m. i rise to ascertain the intentions of the leadership. the senator from michigan has aher amendment and i. of course. shall make this motion only at a time convenient to all parties. if the majority leader wishes me to do it this aftern. i will. otherwise i shall stay my hand until tomorrow. whenever the senator says.
. this issue is raised in exactly the same way as the previous issue was raised. in which we undertake on the floor of the senate a revision of the tafthartley law. there is question about the fact that the senator from michigan proposes an important revision of the injunction provision of the tafthartley law. i wish to say  that it is a revision i wish to support. because i believe we need urgently a better analysis of the national emergency aspect of work stoppages than we have. but taken in isolation. i shall move to table. because the whole issue of american labor and tafthartley is going to have to be a balancing of the plusses and minuses. i may like this and someone else may like something else. there are tl a dozen other matters relating to balloting. pickets. organization of workers. recognition cards. and many other practices that are fair or unfair under tafthartley. these matters deserve to be considered advisedly and substantively in a general revision of the tafthartley law. it is most unwise to pick one item out of the pot and act on it separately and do something to which the reaction could be serious and to the prejudice of labor precisely because you are acting on it separately.
. i call those matters to the attention of my colleagues. if this is to be done. in my judgment it needs to be thought through much more maturely than we have. we in the labor and public welfare committee had a 40day referral. there are a number of places in our report. to which i invite the attention of senators. in which we say we simply have  had an opportunity to analyze the facts as to. first. whether there really was hardship to hawaii on account of these strikes. second. whether the hardship was attributable to the strikes. and third. how this whole operation. which is so draconian. will tie in with collective bargaining generally. and especially with collective bargaining in the maritime industry. just as an example. the committee says. at page 6 of the reportthat is. our committee. which reported unfavorably on this matter-
. i have heard with great interest from my very distinguished colleague and friend the senator from th carolina . that i have put my finger on the nubbin of the matter. which is. as he said. quoting me. that big business and big labor do  need the intercession of the consumer protection agency. the consumer does. i repeat that. and i believe that a " vote on this matter. as senator ribicoff has requested. is exactly the way to carry out that principle. i say that for this reason: where big business and big labor face each other in terms of the relations between them. there the cpa does  belong. and they face each other in their bargaining and other controversies before the national labor relations board. where big business and big labor face the publicto wit. in the federal trade commission. in the aeronautical commission. in the interstate commerce commission. in the department of justice. in many other regulatory and pricedetermining agenciesthey are facing the consumer. who badly needs. as has been eloquently explained. the protection of the consumer protection agency. one might ask. "if that is true. why are the opponents of this measure so ardently pushing for this particular committee amendment." after all. one of their big complaints against the consumer protection agency is that it is going to be very officious. it is going to roam all over the lot. it is going to get into everybodys hair. whose hair is more sensitive than the proceedings before the national labor relations board. it is very simple. because it seems to me that the strategy has already been shown clearly. the strategy was shown when we were urged by the opponents of the measure to approve this particular proposition. they k very well. just as we do. that if you keep labor stirred up and the consumer protection agency is going to be in a big contest with it. it will kill this bill. there is a way to kill bills by loading too much on their backs. and the opponents of this bill k it as well as we do. we could  break the back of a bill sooner than by loading the whole controversy and the whole struggle. which is often a jungle struggle between management and labor. onto the back of this bill. my guess is that the consumer protection agency could  do it. they would need an army of operatives. and so forth. matching at least that of the nlrb. to do the job. and such structure is contemplated.
exactly. if we look at this strategy. it is double barreled and very clever. on the one hand. it can bring labor opposition against the entire bill. so the back of the bill will be broken. on the other hand. even if the bill should be passed. failure for the consumer protection agency is guaranteed. because its back will be broken by a responsibility which it can possibly carry out.
. i have the greatest respect for what senator weicker said. it is entirely valid in response to me that he should make these remarks. and also that i should answer them. my point is that there are other relationships which are excluded in this bill because they are considered to be peripheral to the consumersupplier relationship which the bill is intended to deal with. let me refer the senator to page 86 of the bill where this act is  applicable to the central intelligence agency. fbi. national security agency. intelligence functions of the department of defense. and to any agency action with the fcc with respect to the renewal of any radio or television broadcasting license. the reason for that exclusion of those various relationships is that they are considered to be peripheral to the fundamental relationship between the consumer and the supplier and this is a brandnew agency without a great deal of anything to back it up. it has got to prove itself and it has an emous universe within which it has to prove itself without loadingand i am about to come to the explanation on laborthe labor thing on its back. that is my argument my argument is  a discriminatory argument. but that it is burdening it too much with something that is  in the same rank with the other things which will be more pressing. more immediate consumer frauds. et cetera. then i want to add this point in order to complete that thought. we are  exempting labor unions. we are  exempting labor unions and we are  exempting labor. i would like to have the senator look at page 48 of the report and the paragraph that senator ribicoff and i had written. how we are only exempting the relationships between employer and employee insofar as they become the subject of quasijudicial action before the nlrb and we point out that if a union steps out of its role as a collective bargaining agent and is violating the antitrust law. for example. and many unions have been held guilty of that by restricting. let us say. the way in which buildings can be constructed. et cetera. that the cpa would. and we express it should. remain in the proceedings. we point out that if the union operates its business. for example the umw. united mine workers. in the operation of that business it is subject. as anybody else. to the cpa. so that we again point out the exception excludes only a particular area to set the legal relations between the union and employees and so far as they relate to proceedings before the nlrb. there. i repeat. we feel you would simply break the back of the agency if we try to throw it wholehog at the very initiation.
. the case. we thinkthat is. the overwhelming majority of the members of our committeeis a very strong one. and it is only because it is an emergency. without in any way being a precedent. that the matter is in limbo at this particular moment. and hence the desire to avoid the committee stage. though it is our own committee. by putting the bill up on the calendar. where it can be called up at the earliest possible convenience because of its emergency nature. i send the bill to the desk for myself. the senator from massachusetts . and a number of cosponsors. all of whom are members of the committee on labor and public welfare. and ask unanimous consent that the bill be placed on the calendar.
on yesterday i was necessarily absent from the senate when a number of senators expressed their feelings in terms of a memorial about wayne morse. . i rise. in friendship and in sorrow and in tribute to his memory and to his family. to express my admiration and my affection for my colleague in arms here. who served as the chairman of the committee on labor and public welfare. of which i was the ranking member. and for whom i had the deepest regard and the highest admiration.
i think the senator is doing what he wants to do. i did  want him to labor under any misapprehension. even in those cases. there were amendments which were adopted by the conferees. so that the senate did  prevail. except with amendments. but i believe that by reference to the total paragraph. which i have mentioned. one understands exactly what happened and what the senator wants to happen if his motion prevails. so i believe that the purpose of the senatorto wit. to instruct the confereesis accurately served by this description.
. i wish to thank and commend the conferees on h.r. 8217 which contains a vital provision to continue unemployment payments for those who have exhausted their regular benefits without being able to find work again. at a time when the rate of unemployment is still intolerably high. we must be able to provide our unemployed workers with the means of sustaining themselves and their families for longer periods than when our ecoy is at or near full employment. in 1970. along with several amendmen ts to the unemployment insurance program. we enacted the federalstate extended unemployment compensation program. that program soon proved to be unworkable. and since the fall of 1972 i have proposed a series of amendments designed to make this program effective by relaxing the statutory trigger requirements for extended benefits. on four separate occasions we have temporarily waived the 120 percent trigger requirement from the extended benefits program. the latest of these amendments was attached by the senate to this bill. h.r. 8217. without this amendment. the trigger requirement operates so that in order to be eligible to participate in the extended benefits program. a state must  only have a high rate of insured unemployment. but must also have an insured unemployment rate which is 120 percent higher than its rate for the previous 2 years. the effect of this requirement has been that states with chronic unemployment problems were  eligible for the program even though their insured unemployment rates might be 6. 7 or even 8 percent. the conferees on this legislation have brought back a report which will extend the relaxation of the 120 percent trigger requirement through next april. the potential effect of this legislation will be to allow over a million unemployed workers to become eligible for extended unemployment benefit that they would  otherwise have received. this amendment will also allow ample time for the senate finance committee and the house ways and means committee to study the problems in the extended unemployment benefits program. and to work out a permanent solution to those problems without the threat of cutting off thousands of potential beneficiaries because they are facing a short deadline on reporting reform legislation. i k that i am joined by many members. both here and in the house. who are dissatisfied with the way in which this and other aspects of our entire unemployment compensation system are functioning. we may  have a consensus on an appropriate solution to this problem. but we are agreed that it is a serious problem. this extension of the trigger modification will allow the committees to hear all points of view and to report to their respective bodies appropriate reform measures. i am pleased to e that we can expect the full cooperation of the department of labor. as secretary brennan stated in a letter to chairman long concerning this matter: a full study of duration issues. including the adequacy of the existing trigger mechanism. is clearly necessary and such a study is  underway in the department of labor. i wish particularly to thank my colleague. senator russell long. chairman of the senate finance committee and the distinguished chairman of the house ways and means committee. mr. mills. for their cooperation in working out this extension. i would also like to thank my colleague from connecticut. senator ribrcoff for presenting and fighting for this extension and for his longstanding and dedicated commitment to finding a solution to this problem.
the substitute amendment contains the socalled "labor exemption" from the house bill. in truth. this provision is  a labor exemption. but a managementlabor relations exemption. in fact the exemption is very limited. because the major federal agencies dealing with labormanagement negotiations. the national labor relations board and the federal mediation and conciliation service. may  determine or dictate in any way. shape. or form the demands or the terms of settlement of parties to labor negotiations.
indeed. the supreme court has expressly held that the board may  intervene in that process or dictate any of the substantive terms of collective bargaining agreements in the h. k. porter decision (397 u.s. 99 (1970)). thus. since the government agencies involved do  have authority to effect wage settlements. there simply is way that eliminating the "labor exemption" would have any significant impact upon the acas ability to represent consumer interests. involving labor or management matters. in supplementing that answer. . may i point out that the labor exemption. as i understand it. in the dole substitute. and i think it is properly so called. is explicit in its reference to all three labor acts. it refers to the wagner act. that is the first reference in 1932. it refers to the tafthartley act. that is the second reference in 1947. and finally to the landrumgriffin act. which is the most recent of the three.
and in each case. . it affects the key section which defines the coverage. and that is exactly what the senator from kansas has just referred to. section 113 of title 29 of the wagner act deals with the matter of labor disputes. the relevant section. section 152 of title 29 of the united states code. which is the relevant section of the tafthartley act. deals with controversies involving labor and management. the final section is section 171 of the landrumgriffin act and that deals with the settlement of issues between employers and employees in controversies arising between employers and employees. so that the answer i have given to the senators question corresponds exactly with the terms of the labor provision. the labor exemption limited it from. as i have just described it. which is contained in section 17(a) of the dole substitute.
it would because the secondary boycott cases come within the august .9). 1974 recognition of the nlrb as an unfair labor practice and. therefore. would be. by the express language. including that act which is referred to in the dole substitute. excluded. i might say to the senator that that is an exclusion which was a very hard one. but we have made it in a spirit of coming forward. just as the senator from kansas has come forward in a very statesmanlike way.
: kennedys cabinet. committee recom-. mended. federal legislation to require milimum. vesting standards: in private pensions. as well as federal regulation. off plan fiduciaries. the cabinet report also recommended that further study be given to. the. need for plan termination) iisuranwe. and portability of benefits between. pension plans. startingin 1967. i introduced the first comprehensive private pension and wel. fare plan reform bill believing. then. as- 1 do . that only a comprehensive. integrated regulatory approach. would handle adequately. the. interrelated problems of deficiencies and abuses in. privateplans which cause deprivation. of retirement benefits on. which. workers rely. that early billthe- forerunner of the flna conferencereport we are considering todayproposed to establish minimum. uniform standards for eligibility. vesting. funding. plan termination. nsurance. portability. fldlciary safeguards. and- full disclosure. as well as a wide range of judicial and administrative remedies to help workers enforce their rights. i am most gratified that the conference report embodies  only all the elements of the original legislation i proposed: in 19.67. but in many instancesduplicates. very closely those early provisions. i reintroduced that original legislation in. 1969 and again in 1971. and in. 1972 i was joined by the chairman of the senate labor committee. senator harpison a. wiliam s. democrat of new. jersey.. in the bipartisan williamsjavits. bill. which was cosponsored by virtually every member of the senate labor committee and. ultimately. by over half the members of the senate. i would like to add in this connection. that the chairman of the senate labor committee has- been a tower 9f strength in. our struggle to achieve lasting retirement protection for millions of american workers. our collaboration on this project has been one of the high points. of my congressional career of over 25 years. and i k that he shares with me a sense of deep satisfactioneven elatioer the birth of a comprehensive pension reform law. as a result of sweeping investigations and studies by the senate labor committee in 1971 and 1972which backed by. the senate with $1 million to defray the costbuilt one. of the. most exhaustive records. in support of legislation in recent memorythe senate labor committee. with. the collaboration of the senate. imance cbmmittee. which had reacted unfavorably in 1972. but which took an affirmative position in 1973 in a fine display of statesmanship. brought to the floor of the- senate in september of 1973. an omnibus pension reform bill. which was passed. by a spectacuiar 930 vote: in. february of 1974. the- house passeda bill similar to the senate initiated legislation. it too was passed by an overwhelming vote and represented a joint effort of the houselabor committee and the house ways- and means c ommittee. this briefly is the basic history of the long awaited conference report. on. pension reform we consider today.
. the federal employees compensation act has  been amended since 1966. during the past 8 years. a number of ecoic and administrative developments have made it necessary to update and revise our program of compensation benefits for injured federal workers. i feel this new legislation. h.r. 13871. as amended by the senate committee on labor and public welfare. meets those changing conditions and will insure the continuance of the feca as a model of efficient and equitable compensation for workers injured in the performance of their duties. i congratulate the house and especially
. i ask unanimous consent that an article by james tobin. published in the new york times of friday. september 6. 1974. entitled "there are three types of inflation: we have two." and a news release from the u.s. department of labor. bureau of labor statistics. be printed in the record.
to meet the threatening unemployment situation. we are fortunate to have in the lawafter more than 3 years of disagreement between the congress and the executivethe comprehensive employment and training act of 1973. the first manpower reform measure since job training programs began over a decade ago. the key element of this new legislation is title i. which establishes a system of state and local governmental prime sponsors to carry out job training and transitional public service employment programs. basically at their discretion from allocated fundswith some federal oversight. but  the direct "grantsmanship" inherent in the old system. it is really the first legislation to take the "special revenue sharing" or "block grant" approach in an important area of concern and this is to be its first full year of operation. will we let it be the success the congress and the administration designed it to be. or in this perhaps most difficult year in terms of the unemployment situation. are we going to put prime sponsors out to the sea of rising unemployment "without an oar" or at least without a srong egh one. how many other social programs are  judged "failures" because we failed to give them adequate resources. . is before me. i think the report is so useful that it ought to be completely included. i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record.
the department of labor has recognized many of its problems and is working with us to correct them. of particular relevance to this amendment to exempt small businesses. we recognize that many problems of the small firm can be alleviated by providing information on health and safety standards in more useable form. for this purpose. the department has recently published and is making available digests of industry standards in a readable format. moreover. osha is  entering into a pilot program which will make training available to employers through the nations junior colleges. more important. however. through aher provision in the laborhew appropriation bill we have an opportunity to provide real assistance instead of a blanket exemption for the small employer. the bill as reported by the committee contains a provision already adopted by the house to provide osha consultation at the employers worksite using state employees as already authorized under the act. the bill would permit up to $5.000.000 for this important purpose in fiscal year 1975. for those states operating under approved plans for state administration of osha. funds are already permitted for onsite provisions of consultative services to employers who need assistance in complying with the requirements of the act. this provision in the appropriation bill will enable the labor department to extend this program to those states without approved plans. i have worked with the secretary of labor in devising an agreement on how this program will be administered to meet the needs of small business establishments. and am satisfied that this will operate to meet their real needs for assistance by having trained personnel visit the worksites. answer questions. and advise on what steps may be necessary to come into compliance with the requirements for a healthful and safe work place. . i ask unanimous consent that a recent letter to me from the secretary of labor. peter brennan. on the way in which the department will carry out this responsibility be inserted into the record.
. during the 2d session of the 93d congress. 1974. the republican miity of the committee on labor and public welfare. of which i am the ranking miity member. made again a distinctive record of constructive contributions and effective legislative achievement. it is gratifying to e that in a number of instances the central concepts around which major legislation was built originated on the miity side. these contributions cover all areas of activity of the committee. i ask unanimous consent that a report i have prepared on these contributions and the contributions of miity members  on the committee to legislation considered by the committee be printed in the record.
the eligibility here. the eligibility to be a prime sponsor. which means to do exactly what the senator from west virginia has described. to receive the money. to administer it. to obey the laws. to make the reports. to give the jobs. the prime sponsors are a unit of government beginning with a state. i am reading exactly from the law. section 102 (a) (1) a state. (2) a unit of general local government which has a population of one hundred thousand or more persons on the basis of the most satisfactory current data available to the secretary. (3) any combination of units of general local government which includes any unit of general local government qualifying under paragraph (2) of this subsection. (4) any unit of general local government or any combination of such units. without regard to population. which. in exceptional circumstances. is determined by the secretaryof labor(a) (i) -to serve a substantial portion of a functioning labor market area. or (ui) to be a rural area having a high level of unemployment. and (b) to have demonstrated (i) that it has the capability for adequately carrying out programs under this act. and (i) that there is a special need for services within the area to be served. and (iii) that it will carry out such programs and services in such area as effectively as the state. or (5) a limited number of existing concentrated employment programs grantees serving rural areas having a high level of unemployment which the secretary determines have demonstrated special c~pabilities for carrying out programs in such areas and are designated by him for that purpose. we have rural areas where there is a very large number of unemployed. so. basically. the basic channel is the state or a unit of 100.000. or a combination of units.
we hope to have that done. he was talking in terms of the greatest urgency. all we thought. senator humphiey and i. was as we were taking his figure he expected the budget impact and we were using an established program of proven quality. therefore. we felt. justifiedin view of the fact that this curve was definitely upin asking for it  so that we might  be caught short at the year end as the unemployment curve moved up. i might say to the senator. if it is of any use to him. that we have letters from the national league of cities and the u.s. conference of mayors strongly urging us to act upon this proposal. we understand that that is the general attitude of the county executives as well. i just submit to the senator that we are really  doing anything all that sensational. we are  impacting the budget beyond what the president wants it impacted assuming the 6 percent contingency and which he asked for him-. self. we are using an established technique. and we are  using anything involved. as it  seems very clear. that unemployment is likely to move up over the 6 percent level. it seems to me that if we are going home for a month. we have an obligation to the country  to leave it inadequately defended in terms of this very serious rise in unemployment curve. i respect fully everything the senator says. i simply submit our case.
i should. like to read to the senator one of the sections of the i w on this point. i k we have provided for it. it is section 205(c) (8). this is one of the assurances which we require from prime sponsors. (8) assurances that funds received under this title will be used to hire any person to fill a job opening created by the action of an employer in. laying off or terminating the employment of any regular employee  supported under this title in anticipation of filling the vacancy so created by hiring an employee to be supported under this title. in short. that is exactly what the law forbids.
it means that they are  allowed to let somebody go and then hire somebody under this program to replace him. which i gather is one of the questions the senator is asking. are we simply exchanging bananas for oranges.  it is forbidden under. the law. essentially. this law was designated to deal with people who had a very difficult record of unemployment through their unemployment. compensation period. to. give them -a phasingin period for a new type of job. and it has worked. that is the essential representation we make to the senate as to how this has operated.
. i k that the senator has a very legitimate complaint. at the same time. for those of us in my position. it is difficult. having. as it were. stood against the whole. to agree with one of the parts. because we do  k where it reaches and exactly what it may mean. i could  vote for permitting discrimination. as it were. therefore. i should like to make this suggestion to the senator. as i am the ranking member of the committee on labor and public works. this sounds to me like a matter of legislative oversight. might the senator considerand i say this in way in denigration of his amendmentmy getting from the chairman. and i believe i can. a healing by the education subcommittee on this matter. so that it can be aired. then. if the hearing indicates that legislation is necessary. at least it can be tailored to the situation.
. there are very new factors. one is the 400percent increase in the price of oil. the other is the fact that wages and salaries may very well catch up and give to the whole ecoy that state of equilibriumi like the word which the majority leader last usedwhich may be a substitute for possibly a vain effort to bring about acrosstheboard reductions. for all those reasons. i for one senator welcome very much the stennis resolution. the action implemented. taken by senator mansfield and senator scott. and the fact that all senators on both sides of the aisle should become deeply involved with giving some direction to this country. which at the moment is almost directionless. which at the moment is fiddling while rome burns. including this country and the world. and millions of people starve and tens of millions of americans are in real doubt as to the traditional optimism of all americans about the boundless vitality of the american ecoy
. i ask unanimous consent that in the ensuing debate on the measure relating to unemployment compensation. et cetera. that three members of the staff may have the privilege of the floor: mr. john scales. mr. don zimmerman. and mr. david dunn.
. it is understood that the committee on finance is currently turning out a bill which will deal with other phases of the unemployment system insofar as the federal government is concerned which tie into the statefederal unemployment compensation laws. and. therefore. are properly within the jurisdiction of the committee on finance. so that. while full respect is given to the jurisdiction of both committees. the committee on labor and public welfare is submitting its part of the package in this bill as a supplement and we are confident that the committee on finance is coming right along in parallel to submit its part of the package. with that general background. i shall  comment in more particular on the two major elements of the bill.
s proposal of december 1975. without program we can provide some measure of income security to those workers who will continue to become unemployed if the nations ecoic condition does  recover by the end of next year. all ecoic forecasts indicate. sadly. that it is unrealistic to expect any significant relief from the serious inflation and unemployment problems with which we are  plagued before 1976. second. the program i am proposing relies on trigger mechanisms. and builds upon unemployment compensation programs already in existence. rather than creating an entirely new program. as critical as is this legislation. it does  go far egh. there are many serious deficiencies in the basic federalstate unemployment insurance system. for example. more than 10 million workers in the united states are  covered by the present system. and other inequities exist with respect to qualiflcatiofis for benefits. benefit durations. benefit levels and other areas. for this reason the labor and public welfare committee is giving urgent consideration to additional legislation to provide basic unemployment payments on a federallyfinanced basis to those workers  protected by the existing system. i am also hopeful that there will be quick action on legislation which i and senator nelson have previously introduced. which would infuse an aggregate of $4.0 billion for more than 500.000 public service jobs. these additional job creation resources would supplement the $1.1 billion made available since june for 170.000 public service jobs. for this congress to adjourn without taking action to provide some measure of relief for the thousands of longterm unemployed who are the inent victims of our worsening ecoic situation would be unconscionable. i am pleased that so many of my colleagues have joined in cosponsoring this legislation and hope that it will receive our most immediate attention.
that is correct. also. there is provided in the bill in respect of other problems of unemployment for the necessary resources to back up what we are providing in the bill which was passed here just yesterday for unemployment compensation.
i am also concerned about the section of this provision that would eliminate the requirement that the states provide educational services under the federal interagency day care requirements. under this legislation. those formerly mandated services would  be merely recommended to the states. i hope that the senate will be most diligent in exercising its oversight responsibilities in this area and that we will most carefully monitor the effects of these changes on the quality of services provided to young children under this legislation. i would further emphasize that this increase in the ratio of adults to children and relaxation of the requirements for the offering of educational services. applies only to those programs which function under this specific social security legislation. the federal interagency day care standards are  themselves in question here. the standards will continue to apply completely to the head start program and child care provided under esea. despite my strong reservations about certain provisions of this bill. i believe on balance that it is a sound measure and i would urge each of my colleagues to support its enactment.
all of the unemployment compensation laws and the whole pattern of unemployment with which he is charged. or do the authors of the bill intend that this is all mandatory. in other words. if we can take into consideration the total pattern of unemployment compensation. et cetera. then i would have confidence that he simply is  going to be blindfolded or wear blinders on what kind of unemployment compensation is applied here. the word "may" does give him that right. if the authors intend that this is the way it has to be done. and other way. i would worry about it for the reasons i have stated. i k they are as deeply concerned about the total pattern of unemployment compensation as i am.
i have an amendment which is of great importance to many members to deal with the problem of unemployment compensation which is running out for hundreds of thousands of unemployed people on april 1. i wish to have that made germane. if the senate chooses to table it. it will. but i think it should be considered. for almost the same reason as the social security amendment.
. i will describe the amendment. the amendment proposes that workers who have exhausted their unemployment compensation benefits. including the 13 weeks of extended benefits and the additional 13 weeks of emergency unemployment compensation. so that the worker has by then had up to 52 weeks of unemployment compensation. will be entitled to aher 13 weeks of benefits financed as emergency federal unemployment compensation within the period ending june 30. 1975. i wish to emphasize that this whole provision is limited to unemployment compensation payments up to june 30. 1975. that is the thrust of my amendmentconsent request.
. one of the most constructive elements of the comprehensive employment and training act of 1973. in terms of the nations shortterm directions and longterm objectives in regard to unemployment is the national commission for manpower policy established under title v of that act. the commission. which is chaired by eli ginzberg. professor of ecoics at columbia universitya distinguished authority on manpower programsconsists of 17 members including public officials. representatives of labor. industry. commerce. and education. persons served by manpower programs. and state and local officials who have responsibility for manpower programs. the functions of the commission include identification of manpower goals and needs of the nation. examination and evaluation of the effectiveness of federally funded manpower programs. and related activities. the commission has transmitted to the congress its first "interim" report. dated february 28. 1975. entitled "the challenge of rising unemployment" setting forth a number of preliminary conclusions and recommendations on the responsiveness of manpower and manpowerrelated programs to the very serious developing unemployment situation. this report. coming only 3 to 4 months after the commission was fully underway. is presented with a commendable awareness of purpose and a sense of urgency on the part of the commission. as ed in the report itself: in other circumstances. the commission would have waited before submitting its first report. however. because of the unprecedented increase in unemployment between august and january when the national rate advanced from 5.4 to 8.2 or by more than 50 percent. the commission considered it desirable to make a preliminary assessment of the manpower outlook for 1975 available at this time.
. i shall be very brief. i agree with the senate that we should vote. but i do want to thank senator long for what i consider to be fine statesmanship and deeply humanitarian feeling in continuing unemployment compensation. if there is any pledge we should give the american worker. it is the fact that during this recession. he is  going to be thrown on relief. that is the big difference between this and 1932. i believe the sooner we say it in fact instead of in theory. the better it will be for our country and for them. senator long took the amendment with real understanding of why i had offered it and was extremely fair about it. it was just the kind of thing that could have been dropped down the drain in view of the way in which it was put on this bill. that is. if the conferees needed it. i talked with congressman ullman and congressman corman. who were very understanding and sympathetic. i think it is a real tribute to the constructiveness c -xi 559part 7 and statesmanship and the humanitarian feeling of all the conferees. led on our part by senator long. that this has happened. senator ribicoff took a very special interest in this matter and i wish to express much gratitude to him.
. in the coming weeks the senate will once again take up the bill to create an independent agency for consumer advocacyaca. we all k that it has had a turbulent history. during the past 5 years. it has evoked strong opposition from many who argue that it is unwarranted interference with and disruption of our governmental processes. in my more than 25 years in congress. i have seldom seen a lobbying effort which was as intense and well organized as the one against this bill.  after 5 years of refinement and carefully developed functions and powers senator ribicoff. senator percy. and i. the principal sponsors of this legislation. believe that we aave an extremely sound and workable bill. it is a product of compromise with broader support throughout the senate than that enjoyed by our earlier bills. as a matter of fact. the case for the bill has been so strongly made. that some opponents of the bill are  concentrating virtually all of their fire on a secondary provision of the bill in order to destroy the whole measure. they wish to extend the authority of the aca into the field of labormanagement relations. despite the fact that such efforts were defeated by a large senate majority last year. the focus of this effort for a more farranging grant of authority to the aca is the provision stating that the aca shall  intervene in labormanagement disputes before the national labor relations board. and its sister agency. the national mediation board. opponents of this narrow exemption which. by the way. is as much a business exemption as it is a labor exemption argue that a consumer agency should participate in federal agency activities involving labor inasmuch as wages contribute significantly to the ultimate cost of consumer products. it is important to stress that this language does  exempt business or labor or labor issues from the purview of the aca. rather. it prohibits aca involvement in those federal suits and federal agency activities designed to ease labor/ management negotiations or prevent unfair practices by either side. unions that deal directly in the product and service market are as much subject to s. 200 as any other person. while the collective bargaining process over the years may well have resulted in labor contracts causing increases in the costs of labor. under the basic definition of "interests of consumers" in s. 200 and the scope of the national labor relations board authority. the aca would be powerless to affect the terms of labor contracts. more to the point. there has never been any lawful authority to regulate private wages by the federal government. the fundamental touchstone of our bill is that the aca must attach to the regulatory process in order to have its intervention powers. the area for intervention by the aca is the public sector. if we open up labormanagement relations by removing this exemption. we go deep into the private sector. that would require emous budgets and a wholly different bill than we  have. during the last 40 years it has been ackledged that labormanagement bargaining could  work effectively unless the parties were left to negotiate without outside interference. the labor laws in this country have accordingly been carefully developed over the years to accommodate this realization. thus. the national labor relations boardnlrband the federal mediation servicethe only two agencies which touch the bargaining processmay  determine or dictate in any way. shape or form the parties demands or the terms of their settlement. the nlrb was created to protect employees rights to select bargaining representatives without management interference and to bargain collectively. beyond that. the nlrb does  have the authority to affect the actual outcome of the bargaining process. indeed. the supreme court just 5 years ago expressly held that the board may  intervene in that process or dictate any of the substantive termsincluding the ecoic impact on consumersof collective bargaining agreements. justice black. speaking for the court in porter v. nlrb. 397 u.s. 99. 106. 107108. has this to say about the boards role: it is clear that the board may . either directly or indirectly. compel concessions or otherwise sit in judgment upon the substantive terms of collective bargaining agreements * * * and that sec. 8(d) (in particular) was an attempt by congress to prevent the board from controlling the settlingof the terms of collective bargaining agreements * 0 * it is implicit in the entire structure of the act that the board acts to oversee and referee the process of collective bargaining. leaving the results of the contest to the bargaining strengths of the parties. since congress has determined that the board is  to assess the "substantive terms of collective bargaining agreements." it would be mischievous to empower the aca to intervene before the board to argue issues which are outside the scope of the boards jurisdiction. opponents of the exemption also argue that the nlrb handles cases arising under section 8(b) (4) and 8(e) of the national labor relations act where the question in dispute is whether a strike say to prevent an employer from using prefabricated materials is lawful. and that the outcome of such cases indirectly affects consumers. indeed. this is the dominant theme of those who would empower the aca to enter nlrb proceedings. in a new york times editorial of march 14. 1975. it was inaccurately stated thatthe records of the national labor relations board and the courts abound in cases in which unions on their own or in collusion with employers disregard the public interest. pushing up prices or limiting competition. the only concrete class of board cases ever referred to have been woodwork manufacturers association v. nlrb. 386 u.s. 612. which involved a strike by carpenters. who had traditionally done the job of cutting and fitting doors. to protest their employers attempt to deprive them of that work by using precut doors. and its progeny. in fact. the boards role in deciding these section 8(b) (4) and 8(e) cases is indistinguishable from its role in adjudicating the collective bargaining cases already ed. the supreme court. in affirming an nlrb finding that in the circumstances of the woodwork manufacturers case. section 8(b) (4) and 2(e) had  been violated. stated the purpose of those provisions was "limited to protecting employers in the position of neutrals between contending parties" (386 u.s. at 625). the task entrusted to the board is  to weigh ecoic effects. it is to determine whether the strike is really directed at the striking employees own employer. namely. is a primary strike protected by sections 7 and 13or is it directed at an employer who is a "neutral bystander". namely. is a secondary strike prohibited by sections 8(b)(4) and 8(e). (see 386 u.s. at 645646.) indeed. the supreme court stressed: the woodwork manufacturers association and amlci who support its position advance several reasons. grounded in ecoic and techogical factors. why (work preservation strikes) should be invalid in all circumstances. those arguments are addressed to the wrong branch of government. it may be that the time has come for a reevaluation of the basic content of collective bargaining as contemplated by the federal legislation. but that is for congress. congress has demonstrated its capacity to adjust the nations labor legislation to what. in its legislative judgment. constitutes the statutory pattern appropriate to the developing state of labor relations in the country. major revisions of the basic statute were enacted in 1947 and 1959. to be sure. then. congress might be of opinion that greater stress should be put on . . . elimination of more and more ecoic weapons from the . . . (unions grasp . . . but congress policy has  yet moved to this point . . . labor board v. in-. surance agents international union. 361 us 477. 500. (386 u.s. at 644.) if. by chance. the porter co. and woodwork manufacturers decisions are deemed an insufficient demonstration that the aca should  intervene in nlrb and nmb proceedings became congress has determined that those agencies should decide carefully defined legal questions and  evaluate possible ecoic effects on the product and service market. section 4 of the national labor relations act is certainly dispositive. from its establishment until 1940. the nlrb had utilized the services of a division of ecoic research to engage in general ecoic research and to obtain ecoic data and similar material for use in board cases. in that year the division was abolished. (see s. min. rep.  105. pt. 2. 80th cong. first session. p. 33.) but in 1947 senator raft and representative hartley were so intent on assuring that the board would attend to the law. and  to potential ecoic consequences. that they added to section 4 the proviso thathing in this act shall be construed to authorize the board to appoint individuals for the purpose of * * * ecoic analysis. the point that under our present national labor policy the aca has place in nlrb or national mediation board proceedings could  be more forcefully put. similarly. there is role for the aca to serve before the federal mediation and conciliation service which was created simply to offer mediation services to parties in labor disputes to help them resolve their disagreements peacefully. it has regulatory functions. the fmcs can impose its services upon unwilling parties  dictate the outcome of negotiations where their services have  been solicited. historically. congress has studiously followed a course of interference with free. giveandtake collective bargaining and has sought only to preserve the delicate balance between organized labor and business management. while some people may believe that the time has come to readjust this balance. the place to do so is  in the consumer agency bill. any legislative tinkering with the collective bargaining process or the potential ecoic strength of the respective parties will require a thorough analysis of all labor laws and th. amendment of many of their provisions. the relative state of labor peace we have achieved in this country by allowing two evenly matched. albeit ecoically powerful. parties to engage in unencumbered negotiations is  to be so cavalierly discarded.
i wish to remind my colleagues. that there are expected to be 2 million people using up their unemployment compensation benefits. including the additional 13 weeks congress authorized last december. many here have worked very closely together with me in an effort to continue those benefits. but 2 million workers will exhaust by the end of this year.  this fiscal year but this calendar year. and this is expected to occur at the rate of about 400.000 a month. anybody who was fired out of one of these jobs can go right on the federal purse for unemployment assistance all over again. and it just does  make any sense. . the position i have just read from the department of labor is backed by the u.s. conference of mayors. and the national league of cities. and i ask unanimous consent that the letter be printed in the record as part of my remarks. and letters from the national association of counties and the national govers conference.
. that is entirely wrong. the reason for the labor exemption. which is narrowly confined to proceedings before the national labor relations board. is that there is impact directly on consumers in any of the proceedings of that board. it simply deals with collective bargaining rights between management and labor. as a matter of fact. the supreme court of the united states has made it very clear that the board is  to get into the ecoic result to the public or the worker. and we. ourselves. leaving hing to chance. have provided in the tafthartley act. for example. that "hing in this act shall be construed to authorize the board to appoint individuals for the purposes of . . . ecoic analysis." in congress. we have followed studiously a course of interference with free giveandtake collective bargaining. and we stick to it. and that is why we have this exemption. as to the council on wage and price stability. for example. the agency for consumer advocacy fits in. and hing from which we exempt them in this law changes that situation. the consumer agency can go into those proceedings. similarly. in other proceedings which involve labor in terms of wages and prices. commercial operations. and so forth. the consumer agency can act. the only thing we keep the consumer agency out of is the collective bargaining function. which the nlrb does  determine but regulates in terms of the honesty. good faith. and procedures which it undertakes. that is exactly the same with the national mediation and conciliation services.
therefore. the consumer interest can be directed in many ways to affect wages. i just pointed out the obvious one of the council on wages and price stability. but  in the determination of the issue of negotiations. in which the boards duty only is to keep it fair. for example. even if we let the consumer agency in. it could  affect any decision of the board that determined that wages go up or down. they do  pass on that.
the only thing upon which there is an effort to tie into wages and prices is the socalled secondary boycott. but the courts have decided that secondary boycott cases relate solely to the pressure put on an employer with respect to collective bargaining. whether or  the law does or does  allow such pressure. they have hing to do with the ultimate ecoic effect of a secondary boycott. it is neither illegal  legal on that ground. therefore. the consumer protection agency could do hing to affect that particular criterion of decision. for all those reasons. . i believe the exemption is entirely appropriate and that it should be permitted to remain.
it seems to me that what is happening  is that we are down to the nittygritty of particular exemptions. for example. on the matter of those who are concerned about the labor aspects of this matter. where an amendment to strike out the labor exemption was defeated on the ground that that was strictly limited to labor disputes. that it did  involve all other ecoic matters affecting labor. i am prepared to say in my judgment the new agency can intervene in respect of proceedings under the davisbacon act. which relates the prevailing rate of wages. walshhealy is aher example. in other words. all we have an exemption for is collective barbaining where there is direct ecoic effect upon the price or the wage which a consumer can reach. so. . one thing i would like to leave with the senate in the short time remaining is often when we vote cloture we assume. "well. that is it. the bill is going to pass and that is the end of it." i do  think the senate needs to have any lack of confidence in this particular situation. that it can work its will on this bill. even within the confines of cloture. and it will. it will. there will be other changes in this bill. we all k that. the only question is shall it be filibustered to death again. it seems to me that by  the senate is of one mind on the fundamental idea that this kind of an agency is needed. i appeal to those who have questions or concerns about some one aspect of the bill or aher that in this particular case it is  just going to be moved along and we are  going to just roll over amendments. that is  the temper of the senate. the temper of the senate may be. and i hope it is. let us get on with this business and get it done and at long last  let this whole bill go down the drain because we can get a reasonable time for debate. but we. the senate. ought to have complete confidence in our ability to work our will on given parts of the bill or given amendments. this does  mean any streamrollering operation at all. it is  that kind of a bill and it is  that kind of a situation in the senate.
perhaps others definitely. the definition is strictly limited to labor disputes and the kind of thing the nlrb and federal mediation do. they are  directly ecoically affecting the size of the wage or the nature of the price which will result from that wage. indirectly they may be. but that is  the thrust of the agency into which the exemption will  permit intervention.
i can tell that. all i am designing in respect of this program when i introduced the legislation is an additional stimulation in a recessionary. very serious recessionary. period. i state that as a legislative history. that is the sole purpose of this particular measure. that is why the limitation of 18 months. i do  consider it a precedent. i do  consider it as opening a new door. i do  consider it an underwriting by the federal government of the $8 billion rehabilitation bill. i have  got the remotest idea of what will happen. i consider it only a felicitous tool under existing conditions to bring more workers very productively into tht employment instead of the unemployment category.
i thank my colleague. i might say to him that many of us will devote our minds to thinking through. once we get out of this mess. the structural inadequacy in our country which gives us almost a congenital unemployment figure to what is a generally accepted figure of close to full employment. to wit. 4 percent. and here we are playing around with 9 percent becaue we have  yet found a way to deal with what is surplus labor which really should  be.
s association. among the topics to be discussed are: "creating consumer confidence". "effective selling during a recession". "taking advantage of a buyers marketin dealing with your suppliers. landlords. insurance companies and the opportunity to hire new and better employees". "cutting miscellaneous operating expenses". "eliminating employee pilferage and shopliftilng". "downside inventory management". aging and aggresive collection of accounts receivable". "managing accounts payable in todays ecoy". "keeping good recordsking where you are every minute of 1975."
. the nations current unemployment crisis. with 9.2 percent of the work force  unable to find jobs. has focused our attention on a number of legislative measures to respond to the needs of those without jobs. and particularly on the needs of the longer term unemployed with respect to the unemployment compensation system. the committee on labor and public welfare. of which senator williams. of new jersey is chairman--on which i serve as the ranking miity member. and the committee on finance. just last week have ordered reported legislation to provide for extensions of unemployment benefits under the special unemployment assistance program and the federal supplemental benefits program. prompt action by the congress
. the bureau of labor statistics of the department of labor has updated its very useful occupational outlook handbook. this handbook is particularly useful in todays contracted job market. the handbook has been valuable for a long time to counselors and teachers in assisting students in making career choices. it may also be particularly helpfu. to vietnam era veterans who are making career decisions. the handbook offers an overview of employment prospects and projections in a wide range of occupations. included are analyses of changes expected to occur in the job market in various fields as a result of techogical and ecoic factors. the bls is to be commended for compiling this very useful publication. king of its usefulness to counselors. teachers. and young people. i ask unanimous consent that the "handbook in brief" be printed in the record.
. in the past few years the state of the ecoy has made it essential that congress support and enact certain programs aimed at alleviating burdens which have faced many americans. in this congress and in the 93d congress we have sought to provide public service jobs programs. to extend unemployment benefits. to correct inequities in the administration of the social security system. and. to provide education benefits and incentives. -to name just a few. our distinguished colleague. from pennsylvania. senator hugh scott. has been a leader in each of these areas. as ranking republican on the senate labor and public -welfare committee. i ask unanimous coitsent to have printed in the record the fine legislative record of senator scort on human needs.
. i join today in introducing with senator williams. chairman of the committee on labor and public welfare. and other senators. the construction industry collective bargaining act of 1975. this bill. s. 2305. has been submitted by the administration. and was developed with the close cooperation of labor and management in the construction industry. joining in the introduction of this bill are senators taft. stafford. beall. gravel.
exactly right. considering our situation with housing starts generally we really were left with alternative. i might tell the senator we have just put in a billi am the ranking member of the labor committee with senator williamsto have some effect on the wage scales in this industry by requiring. under dunlops bill--and i think it is an excellent bill and i am very enthusiastic for itby requiring all of these wage settlements to be referred at least to the international union. then we have a commission which can give a 30day stay even after the contract has expired. " in short. we. in the.labor committee. are determined if we humanly can. to try to bring down the cost of building homes. but. in the meantime. we are faced with these very hard realities which ody regrets more than i do.
let me finish this point. the point that is being made by senator willams is critically important. for this reason. the fact is that the department of labor  specifies. for example. dust. which is the base cause for many industrial illnesses. as a serious violation. the fact is that even carciensthat is. cancerproducing materialsin the air are classified as a serious violation. for example. those occurring in vinyl chloride. the fact is that they classify se. even if it is deafening. as a serious violation. why. because in the compromise which we made with small businessand this i was a party to. just as senator wilams waswe made a very. very strict interpretation of what is a serious violation so that. unless there is some imminent danger of death or substantial injury. everything else is a serious violation. i did  like it then. but i certainly would like it infinitely less if the penalty were cut down to $50. one final statement on this very point: the fact is that the secretary of labor has very broad power to give variances on exemptions in respect of the act. yet. withstanding many of the complaints to which the senator from florida and louisiana have apparently given their attention in this matter. very few employers have sought variances from the secretary. we believe it is because they can prove a case. therefore. i think that this is a critically important factor in the argument which is made by our colleagues. . senator williams has the floor i shall be glad to answer any questions.
. i repeat: whatever may be the arguments in favor of additional consultation. that is all right. we will go with that. whether it is really justified or . the important point is that we should  thereby jeopardize the american worker by reducing the already minimal amount of inspection. which is at least onethird less than what it should be. for those reasons. this amendment should be rejected.
. one other point: this is on an appropriations bill. it is a limitation. if this were put on a labor bill. we could amend the amendment. we can do that . for example. what could be written into this amendment is that it shall  apply in hazardous industries or firms where there have been previous violations. we can do a thing . the senator can do it on any other bill or a labor bill. there is rule of germaneness. in addition. senator williams and i will give a hearingwe have done it before and will do it againin order to bring that kind of pressure to bear on the administration. we are  shutting our eyes to the problem.
i thank the senator very much. . aher point i wish to make is- with respect to aher item in this measure. which relates to reducing a figure which had to be reduced. the question is. is it reduced egh. that is the mandated percentage for new construction. in section 8. the new construction figure is reduced from 75 percent. as proposed by the senate. to 50 percent as proposed by the house. in a period of very high costs for construction and. at the same time. a period of great unemployment for construction in the construction industry. where the unemployment is about 20 percentan absolutely staggering figure-
 of the laborers international union in 1968 mr. fosco worked to improve its organizing activities and educational and training programs. in the forefront of legislative initiatives mr. fosco was active in the fight for federal construction and safety legislation as well as the pension reform act of 1974where he worked actively with me. mr. foscos substantial contributions to the labor movement in the united states as well as to the enactment of protective labor legislation will be missed by all who knew and worked with him.
. on friday. october 31. 1975. i had the privilege of addressing the new york state aflcio at its annual convention. our new york labor federation has a long and proud history of commitment to betterment of the working conditions for new york workers. of course it is  vitally concerned about the financial status of new york city and the state. which i discussed in my address. i ask unanimous consent that my remarks be printed in the record.
. we are  considering a carefully and narrowly drawn bill. s. 1479. designed to correct an aoly in the case law under the national labor relations act concerning the proper distinction to be drawn between strikes permitted by unions against employers with whom they have a lawful dispute. and those strikes prohibited by the act. because they are aimed at forcing "secondary" neutral employers to cease doing business with the primary employer. we should recognize at the beginning that the subject matter of this bill before us involves the basic rights and responsibilities of labor and management in conducting labor relations as prescribed by the national labor relations act. fundamental to that policy is the right of labor and management to invoke the use of ecoic weapons. including the right of a union to strike the employer andthe right of the employer to lockout its employees. although the right to strike is by means unlimited. the act. in section 13. specifically recognizes and preserves this basic prerogative of workers to withdraw their services. it states: hing in this act. except as specifically provided for herein. shall be construed so as either to interfere with or impede or diminish in any way the right to strike. or to affect the limitations or qualifications on that right. one of the specific limitations on the right to strike is section 8(b) (4). which bans secondary boycotts and affirms the right of employers to be immune from labor pressure when they are  directly involved in the dispute. this section was adopted as part of the 1947 tafthartley amendments to the national labor relations act. and subsequently modified in amendments to the act incorporated in the 1959 landrumgriffin act. because the distinction between lawful and unlawful activity under section 8 (b) (4). and under other provisions of the act. is less than precise. it has been left to the national labor relations board and the courts to make these distinctions which involve the inherent conflict between the right to strike and the right of neutral employers to remain unaffected by a labor dispute. just such a distinction between permissible and prohibited activity under section 8(b) (4) has erroneously been drawn by the nlrb and the federal courts with respect to the picketing rights of labor in the construction industry. the board. with judicial affirmation. has drawn a line creating an illogical and inequitable distinction concerning these rights which requires congressional modification and correction. erasing this distinction and overruling the case law creating it is the limited purpose of s. 1479. i believe that this issue. and the provisions of the legislation. can best be. understood by explaining the underlying case law. the principle case is that of nlrb v. denver building trades. 341 u.s. 675 (1951). denver building trades. which was decided shortly after the enactment of the tafthartley amendments. and subsequent decisions relying on its rational. have in my jdugment produced an unintended and unwarranted result and must be overturned. in that case the nlrb had ruled in 1949 that picketing to appeal to all of the employees at a construction site was a violation of section 8(b) (4). in protest of the presence of a single union subcontractor at the construction project. the denver building trades council picketed the entire site. labeling the job as "unfair." all of the union building tradesmen at the job site refused to cross the picket line. two weeks after this "common situs picketing" commenced. the general contractor terminated the contract of the union electrical subcontractor. that subcontractor charged. and the nlrb agreed. that the picketing by the denver building trades council constituted unlawful secondary activity under the act. although reversed by the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia. the supreme court upheld the ruling of the board in a decision which iged the ecoic realities of the construction industry with its highly integrated relationship among all contractors and subcontractors at a construction site. the court held that each of the contractors and subcontractors are separate employers. and therefore picketing in support of a labor dispute with an employer at a construction site can enmesh other contractors at that site. all of the other employers at the site must be considered neutral for purposes of section 8(b) (4). the denver building trades decision. in my judgement. is entirely inconsistent with the legislative history of the nlra. as well as the ecoic realities of the construction industry. the secondary boycott provision of section 8(b) (4) can be literally construed. they must. for example. be read in light of the right to strike preserved in section 13. moreover. the true secondary boycott. rightfully prohibited by the act. is against one who is  a party to the labor dispute. the picketing becomes offensive to the act when it causes such a neutral employer to cease doing business with the employer with whom the union has the dispute. the unlawful secondary boycott attempts to bring outside pressure to force an employer to settle with the union on its terms. but this is clearly  the circumstance involved in the denver building trades case and other like situations in the construction industry. in denver building trades. the picketing was conducted at the common situs of the contractor and his subcontractors. the purpose of the picketing was to create an allunion job site. it should be emphasized that the picketing was  designed to require the union electrical subcontractor to recognize a union. rather it was merely in protest against the presence of union electricians. as secretary dunlop stated when he testified in support of this legislation: both sides in the construction industry have long been of the general view that a construction site should have a common labor relations policy regardless of how many separate contracts or contractors. prime or subcontractors. are involved. the mixing of labor policies is  conducive to industrial peace. productivity. or good management. i agree with this statement and can only conclude that it flies in the face of sound federal labor relations policy to construe section 8(b) (4) of the act to prohibit common situs picketing at construction projects. i believe that the highly integrated nature of the construction workplace with various interrelated contractors and their employees is sufficient to establish that the denver building trades case should  finally determine the situs picketing issue. that it has also created an aoly between picketing rules applicable to workers at industrial facilities. and those applicable to construction tradesmen. is demonstrated by the supreme courts subsequent ruling in a 1961 decision. kn as the general electric case. local 761
. there are two points i would like to raise. first it is  realized that the construction trades are taking a big risk in this bill. if s. 1479 has the effect. as ed by the secretary of labor in his testimony before the senate labor committee. of making construction projects either totally union or totally union. and thus eliminating mixed projects in the interest of stabilizing construction industry labor relations. the construction unions may in fact lose a portion of their representation. second. i want to address the issue of the socalled righttowork states. and the effect of s. 1479 on these states. i must say. that the moral justification for righttowork laws. confounds me in this context. if the justification for state righttowork laws is  to prevent unionization. but rather to protect against coercive unionization. s. 1479 literally does  have a direct or adverse effect on these state laws. since s. 1479 is  in any way interfering with the righttowork states. it would be manifestly unfair and improper to impose the state right to work objective on the nation by way of an amendment to the situs picketing bill. similarly since s. 1479 leaves intact the state righttowork laws there is need to amend this bill to accommodate arguably conflicting interiests.
. received from the secretary of labor a letter which i shall read to the senate. because i think it is so meaningful. we have a secretary who  only can approve or disapprove an act on the part of the administration. but can also give an emous weight to his opinion through his own experience. which. in the case of secretary dunlop. is about 30 years in this field. he writes to me under todays dateand i think it is important that the senators present hear it: in response to your request. i am writing to summarize briefly the reasons why i support s. 1479. the common situs picketing bill. currently before the senate. as you k. my personal experience as a mediator and arbitrator in the construction industry consists of more than 30 years of continuous involvement. over that time. i have observed and resolved a great variety of disp~utes in this highly complex and fragmented industry. many of them bitter and emotional. and over that time. i have seen the issue of common situs picketing develop since its beginning in 1949. that broad overview has led me to a number of conclusions upon which i base my support of this bill. in general. mixing labor policy (union and union) on any single job is  conducive to sound labor relations. to cooperation on a job.  to increased productivity. rather. mixing labor policies tends more to stimulate disputes between workers operating under different wages and benefits doing the same or similar work. who must necessarily interface with each other for practical purposes. a single. consistent labor policy (union or union) enhances overall labor relations and. in the long run. results in beneficial gains for both the employers and employees. and the public. much of the criticism of the legislation has been based on the erroneous assumption that the legislation would legalize picketing for purposes  unlawful under existing statutesracial discrimination. picketing directed at construction industrial employers or work operations other than construction. product boycott. etc. this is  the case as the legislation clearly provides.  is the bill inflationary. construction wages and fringe benefits are negotiated typically at intervals of two or three years on an areawide basis. while issues related to common situs picketing arise on individual projects during the term of the agreement. in my considered judgment. the passage of the common situs picketing legislation is  likely to produce major disruptive effects in the industry as often charged. past legislative proposals have incorporated many amendments and a number of restraints to protect the rights of employers. employees. and neutral third parties. among those proposed for example by secretary george p. shultz in 1969 and included in the current legislation are: (1) the prohibition against racial picketing. (2) the enforceability of trike clauses. and (3) protections for industrial and independent unions. there are. in addition. two new provisions which this administration proposed in both s. 1479 and h.r. 5900. which i believe strengthen the worthiness of this bill. these provisions set forth the requirement of (1) a ten day period of ice of intent to picket that must be given to various interested parties and to the standard national labor organizations engaged in collective bargaining in the industry. and (2) authorization of such picketing by the appropriate national union. these requirements should contribute substantially to the peaceful resolution of disputes. they would. i am convinced. contribute greatly to responsible behavior by labor organizations and contractors and should mitigate the concerns of those opposed to the legislation. as you are aware. there currently is aher bill before the congress dealing with the construction industrythe construction industry collective bargaining bill. it stands. i believe. on its own merit in providing a much needed mechanism by which the sector of industry engaged in collective bargaining could work cooperatively toward solving many of its problems. in closing. i hope these comments are helpful to you in the senates consideration of s. 1479. if i can be of any future assistance. please let me k. sincerely.
the mechanics ofthe amendment which i am submitting are as follows: first. there is established a construction industry collective bargaining committee. composed of 10 management and 10 labor representatives. with up to three neutral members. or 23 in all. to be appointed by the president. the secretary of labor and the director of the federal mediation and conciliation service are ex officio members. making a group of 25. this committee. building on the previous experience of the construction industry stabilization committee. will identify patternsetting collective bargaining agreements in the construction industry which have a potential disruptive and unsettling effect on bargaining in the industry generally. it will have the power to intercede before such agreements are f~ially reached by the parties. that is accomplished by a 60day ice to the international union and to this committee before a contract expires. the committee can take jurisdiction of the proposed contract negotiations in order to determine what it will or will  do about particular negotiationsheading off unnecessary strikes and wage agreements that are inflationary and disrupt established patterns across the country. it will also be expected to promote agreements covering appropriate geographic areas. encourage voluntary procedures for dispute settlement. and to undertake other measures to rectify what is widely recognized as an unwieldly and unstable labor relations situation in the construction industry. here is how it works. both local labor unions and local contractor associations. will be required to give 60 days ice to their respective national organizations before the termination or modification of collective bargaining agreements. the national organizations. in turn. are required to forward these ices promptly to the construction industry collective bargaining committee. the unions and the employers association are also required to give ice to the committee when they are themselves parties to expiring collective bargaining agreements or contracts which are proposed to be modified. the committee is then authorized to take jurisdiction over the labor negotiations of which it has received ice. if it determines that such action will promote the basic purposes of the act. the specific criteria in the act for asserting jurisdiction include: facilitating collective bargaining. promoting construction industry stability. encouraging bargaining agreements with more appropriate expiration dates and geographic coverage. after taking jurisdiction and for 30 days after the termination date of a contract. the labor contractconceivably. of course. they will deal with the matter and work out some settlement in the interim. that is in the 60 days. during this period party to the agreement will be allowed to initiate or continue any work stoppage unless the committee sooner disaffirms its prior assertion of jurisdiction. having asserted jurisdiction. it retains that jurisdiction for the 60day period of the ice and for 30day coolingoff period thereafter in which work stoppage is permitted .by law.
yes. somewhat. for practical purposes it is an agreedupon mediatory body with a designated set of powers. and the reason for making the director of the federal mediation service an ex officio person is because all of the expertise and personnel which could conceivably be thrown into the breach. after taking jurisdiction. that is 60 days before the expiration of the contract. the committee may assist the parties directly by mediating the dispute itself. or it may refer the negotiations to a national craft or branch board in the industry itself. such boards. composed of both labor and management representatives. operated successfully under the construction industry stabilization committee. during our price and wage control period. and we consider them a most useful adjunct to the operations of this new committee. the committeethat is the official committee which i have just describedmay also request--request. i emphasize that wordthe direct participation of the national construction labor organizations and the national construction contractor associations whose members are involved in the negotiations. if the committee requests such participation by the labor organization concerned. new collective bargaining agreement or revision of an existing agreement may take effect until it has been approved by the national construction labor organization with which the local labor union is affiliated. i wish to emphasize there that there is other cooling off period. that is the 60day ice plus the 30day cooling off is all there is. but a contract can be effective once it has been referred to the international union unless it is approved by the international union. it is critical to the functioning of this new mechanism provided in the bill that these organizations take steps from time to time to restrain their subordinate bodies in order to bring about collective bargaining stability and the reduction of inflationary wage agreements. accordingly. it is intended that civil and criminal liability should  be imposed on these organizations simply because. as called for in the bill. and what we consider to be in the public interest. they participate in the negotiations or approve. or refuse to approve. a collective bargaining agreement. in addition. and it is very important to e this. i provided by amendment of my own that the committee may relinquish jurisdiction over a particular negotiation. this was done in order to allow the committee a maximum of flexibility.
in a case of that kind. they will  take jurisdiction unless the taking of jurisdiction complies with the criteria set forth in the bill. if a $60.000 house is going to be a big rallying point. for example. for the construction labor wages in a standard metropolitan statistical area. which sometimes happens. the committee may take jurisdiction. that is why we did  make it dollars or size or number of employees because sometimes something small can be a bellweather we gave the committee this criteria that it had to promote construction industry stability and encourage bargaining agreements with appropriate expiration dates and geographic coverage so the committee would  be expected to take jurisdiction of every dispute and that is the way we control it. we contemplated that we were dealing with great groupings where we have. as we have in the construction industry. agreements between contractor organizations and labor organizations. they each are acting together. and that is what the bill is designed to suit. the actual practice in the construction industry. the importance is that we had a lot of experience. we have had a lot of bad experience. which has resulted in runaway costs of construction. archaic practices. et cetera. labor has had a lot of bad experiences in the common situs problem being unable to picket and. therefore. to wage an effective strike. where there was a common situs for a number of contractors. we have had a good experience in the construction industry stabilization board during the price control price and wage control period. this is the quiescence of our wisdom brought up to date. we have many technical difficulties. senator allen already has raised those technical difficulties with the chair in a parliamentary inquiry relating to germaneness if we vote cloture. but senator williams and i felt that good faith to the senate required us. whatever may be the technical fate of thisand we believe they are germane and so intimately relate to each other that they properly pass muster under the germaneness rule and rule xxiibut whatever may happen. atleast. it was our pledge of good faith to the senate that it is our design to do both to do one. but to do bothand if the senate will permit us. we will wrap them both in one bill. that is the purpose of the offering of my amendment.
s charge to three members of his cabinet. the administration has  yet made public the results of these efforts. in fact. the agencies have  recently indicated that they are even working on this important subject. one of the most significant efforts seems to have been made outside of the government by the national manpower institute. a private group headed by former secretary of labor willard wirtz. while the executive agencies have been marking time. willard wirtz has assembled leaders from business. labor. and education to draw up a comprehensive plan for developing. as they call it. "a lifetime continuum of education and work opportunities" for all americans. and.  nmi is ready to release a well thought out strategy for action. here is a sampling of what it suggests: youth should have opportunities to intersperse work and service experience with their formal schooling. adults should be allowed to go back to school either to make up the years of education they missed. or to get a midcareer shot of schooling making them more productive or giving them an opportunity to prepare for a useful. active retirement. governmental statistics should be improved to provide clearer. more accurate projections of our future manpower needs so that we will avoid such wasteful practices as training persons for jobs which will  materialize. communities should establish local councils to help ease the transition for students and wage earners back and forth between classrooms and work places. and these are just some of the suggestions. all of which should be read by the administration and the congress when nmis report is formally published later this month in the "boundless resource: a prospectus for an educationwork policy." moreover. they should be a challenge to public officials. it is fortunate that leading spokesmen from the often contentious elements of education and industry can agree on a plan. while the federal government has marked time for the last 15 months. indeed. it is past the time for all of us to move forward to develop better coordination between learning and earning. in the words of mr. wirtz. the new american imperative commends the new american prospect: of growth unlimited. based on the fuller development of what is inside people as individuals. through a new coordination of the classically equal. but separate forces of education and work.
. the essence of the argument against this amendment is that it proposes that each department and agency of the federal government will have its own labor policy. secretary dunlop has made it as a basic proposition that the federal government should have a uniform labor relations policy. the reason we exempted the states was because a number of states have adopted a policy of issuing separate prime contracts. if it were the federal governments policy we would have recognized it. if that had been the case there would have been need for this amendment. the fact is that it is . what the senator should be doing. in my judgmenthe is well able to take care of himselfis to amend the federal procurement law to provide for the letting of separate contracts. but. it would be a mistake for the congress to allow any particular agency. gsa or any other. to cut itself out of the labor relations policy of the nation. in this case the administration is against this amendment because it says the labor relations policy of the united states is to allow common situs picketing on a situs even if it is a united states situs. that is the key issue. and we can vote "yea" or "nay" on it.. for me i think we ought to vote ""
 i never want to confuse my colleague. the words in the amendment are "in conformity with applicable law." the applicable law which we are proposing in the committee bill is "where a state law requires." i submit the words used by the mover of the amendment are. at best. ambiguous and if he means what he says then he should use the word "require." if he does . then we must follow the labor department which says that there is federal law which requires the letting of separate prime contracts.
. i appreciate the remarks of the distinguished senator from new jersey . who serves so ably as the chairman of our committee. as the ranking miity member. i want to e the generous cooperation which we have received in the consideration of this legislation. it has been a pleasure to join senator williams in the management of the bill. i also want to express my appreciation for the work of our staff members. don zimmerman. miity counsel to the labor subcommittee. ira shepard. and donald rosenthal. and for the majority. donald elisburg. george sape. martin jensen. and eileen mayer.
. there is germaneness of any decision to be made at this time as to the pending measure. but. this occurred in the report and does represent a viewcertainly an important part of the appropriations committee. i thought it was best to call it to the attention of my colleague and to invite study and consultation. if that would seem appropriate to senator robert c. byrd and senator stevens. with the chairman and the ranking miity member of the labor committee. one other point: i also hope that senators byrd and stevens will have a look at our bill. s. 1302. because it may very well be that the provisions in our bill may have some effect upon their thinking concerning the proper administrative placement of the mine safety administration. s. 1302 has an impressive number of cosponsors. my purpose. then. is simply for information. because. although the report language is influential and important. it is  a binding decision. i hope my colleagues will. therefore. look into the question a little further in view of our opinion.
. one other thing. if i may ask the senator. we are in kind of a bind always at the end of a session about unemployment compensation. would the senator be willing to allow that to be a germane amendment. or to be an amendment. i promise the senator this. i think he ks me-
the- senator has had long experience in this body and ks unanimous consents are very difficult to obtain. there are 100 members. the unemployment compensation may be agreed to by 98 to 2. but those 2 can block us if we allow this.
. it is  necessary. as the senator ks. to kind of instruct me on that. i thoroughly agree with the senator. but the senator will agree with me. too. that unemployment compensation and its continuance with 8 million unemployed is pretty essential business 6f the congress of the united states. i just ask for an opportunity if we need it next week to bring up an unemployment compensation amendment. that is all.
. i believe that titles i and ii of this legislation represent an important new development in federal labor relations policies. it will. i believe. substantially enhance the prospects of peacefully resolving labormanagement disputes in the construction industry. and bring about a most needed national framework for collective bargaining in this vital sector of our ecoy. this legislation. as resolved by the house and senate conferees. warrants the strong support of the senate. and i urge its prompt enactment.
. the need for the passage of h.r. 9803. with the amendment sponsored by senator russell long. chairman of the senate finance committee. and cosponsored by senator walter mondale. chairman of the subcommittee on children and youth. of the labor and public welfare committee. is a necesary measure to insure quality care for the young children in our nation. at a time when there are insufficient available slots for daycare centers. we are considering a measure that will have a direct effect on our ability to maintain at least the level of service  provided. in the past. the congress has reiterated its support for the federal interagency day care requirements. originally promulgated in the ecoic opportunity act of 1964. the fidcr have been reaffirmed in the ecoic opportunity act of 1972. in the headstart section. ecoic opportunity and community partnership act of 1974. and most recently in title xx of the social services act of 1974. while these requirements have been in effect since 1968. it was only last october when they were to be enforced. as part of title xx funds. when it was realized that many states had problems complying with the minimum staffing ratio as set forth. it was agreed by congress to postpone the effective date of these standards until february 1. 1976. the health and safety codes and other program standards embodied in fidcir were. of course.  suspended. in the interim. rather than retreat from the minimunm standards. which the congress has previously insisted upon. the distinguished senators from louisiana and minnesota have presented the senate with a proposal that will meet head on the problems the nation faces in its effort to provide quality child care. the longmondale amendments to provide an additional $250 million specifically earmarked for child care. provides states with additional funds needed to maintain the current level of day care enrollment and compliance with all the fidcr. to postpone further the implementation of these minimum standards. would  only jeopardize the health. safety. and wellbeing of all those children in licensed daycare centers around the country. but would assure a reduction in the number of child care slots available. we. in congress. have had a commitment to quality care. and i have always insisted that this be an integral part of our child care program. these statistics reveal that this country falls far short in providing day care to those who need it. the present figures for child care indicate 6 million children below age 14 need some form of day care other than with an immediate parent. at present there is capacity for only onefourth of these childre 1.5 millionin licensed daycare facilities. there are presently 30.000 centers for 1.2 million children81 percent of total capacityand 81.000 family day care homes for 284.000 children19 percent of total capacity. staff ratios are a key ingredient in quality care and a crucial ingredient in child care provided under title xx since most of the children it serves have special needsnutritional. social. and educationalwhich demand the attention that only the proper complement of staff can provide. if we ige the staff ratios in these programs: we ige children already at risk. and the expense of neglect indeed both in human terms and fiscal terms given the cost of the remediation and rehabilitation programs in which we would ultimately find these children. i shall continue my efforts to expand the availability of day care slots to fill the gap as it exists. just as efforts must continue concerning the quality of day care. the quality of day care provided must be of a standard that does  shortchange those chiidren who participate. any shortcuts in standards will result in a heavier price to pay in the future. the child/staff ratio question has  been answered definitively. a study by hew is to be completed in late 1977. to determine what effect this ratio has on a child. but it should be obvious that the more favorable the ratio of staff to children. the better situation for the children involved. the debate. however. is  solely these child/staff ratios. the senate finance committee study before us today in fact indicates that most states need funds in order to meet the othersuspended fidcr standards or in other words. since these standards generally reflect what states do anyway to maintain their program. that most states need additional funds to maintain their current level of services. in as much as the alternative to providing additional moneys to the states to bring them up to compliance is to all the states to cut back in the amount of available slots. h.r. 9803 is essential to maintaining the essential goals of title xx. by cutting back on the services to children. working mothersthe majority of title xx day care usershave alternative but to stay home to care for their children. this runs counter to all our efforts to get people off the welfare rolls. and back to work. the provision to help staff daycare centers with welfare recipientsa provision most states have reported they would quickly take advantage ofwould further our efforts to prevent welfare dependence and reduce our otherwise heavy expenditures in this area. it is recognized that there will be some instances where there could  be compliance with standards and requirements. for that reason waiver provisions are incorporated. under those conditions specified. the children must be served and it is our task to provide what the best thinking minds of our country feel is necessary adequately to protect the health and the future of the children. the burden of the future is  to be lightly taken. standards for quality care to continue are  something on which we can afford to retreat. much depends upon it.
. for very good reason. i say to the senate that of all the amendments on which i worked in respect of this billand it was strictly a labor of agency. as i was working for many members in this regardthis is the one which i think is the most delicately fashioned and balanced to accomplish what we should dotry to bail us out of the situation which we are too often in because we are such a great power and have so many interests in the world. and at the same time to give decent respect for the human values which are here concerned. i hope very much that the senate will sustain us as we stand. because every time we tinker with something in this. we will dislocate something else.
i thank my colleague. the bill had two parts. of course: one. the public works part. and the other the countercyclical part to deal with the ravages which have hit the cities and the heavy unemployment in many states and many communities. i do agree thoroughly with my colleagues that the thing to do is to get together with the white house. but i do  feel. in all fairness and dignity. that you have any reason to believe we simply have to take whatever is handed to us. because 63 votes in the senate are  very far from the necessary number to override. i ho the president completely in the sturdiness of his convictions. and i have had lots of experience with this president and previous presidents in just this situation where you sit down and it is a negotiation across the table. and you try to work something out in the interests of the country. so i do  wish to in any way seem to feel that we have some trial of strength or confrontation. but i do feel our negotiatorsand that is what the senator will be. and senator baker and other colleagues--should have some feeling also of the strength of the fact that withstanding this was by means an optimum billone knew that better than the senator from west virginiathe fact is. and i think i dothat is exactly the way he wants it. so i hope very much these efforts will prosper. i feel very definitely the senator is treading correctly the right course. i was a conferee. and i k how hard it was to fight this out. but i believe the time can be greatly shortened. and it must be. because of the exigencies that we must face. there are 100.000 people exhausting their unemployment compensation benefits every month. and i certainly want to in every way cooperate with the speed of the senator in his work.
. i am pleased to be identified with day care legislation. and as ranking miity member of the labor and public welfare committee. and chief cosponsor of s. 626. the child and family services act of 1975. i remain firm in my belief that services available to young children and their families are inadequate to meet the present need. the proposed legislation would fund a variety of quality child and family services. including. day care programs. part day and full day. parenthood education. and nutrition. while i am a supporter of this legislation. i recognize that in previous sessions there has been much debate in the congress. and that many issues still are  resolved. however. the recent barrage of mail which i have been receiving. and to which my colleagues have also been subjected. removes the basic issues from reality. instead. specious and unfounded claims are seemingly accepted as truth by those who have received and circulated an unsigned leaflet. this leaflet attributes and quotes a child advocacy clause which is existent in the legislation. false allegations. inaccuracies. and distortions are the mainstays of this concerted effort to arouse the ire of the people. regrettably too few can take the time and effort to investigate and challenge the issues of fact before adding their voices in criticism. the proposed legislation recognizes and specifically provides that child care programs must be totally voluntary. its purpose is to build upon and strengthen the role of the family as the primary and fundamental influence on the development of the child. suggestions that child rearing authority would vest in the state. or that parents would be prohibited from providing religious training to their children. are clearly refuted by the endorsement of this legislation by religious organizations across the country. support for additional child and family services. and testimony concerning the increasing need as more women enter the labor force. has been repeated often in the many days of hearings held during the past year. an unfinished task remains to inform the people on the need. for comprehensive services for the american family. as this is accomplished such
. the senate recently passed h.r. 9803 to enable states to meet the standards of the federal interagency day care requirements. the bill would provide additional funds to states having difficulty meeting day care standards for health. safety. and staffing. the present availability of day care slots is insufficient to meet the needs. and as more mothers enter the work force. the need will increase. it is important that the day care program  be decreased. and that the service provided be safe and healthy. it is for these reasons that this legislation should become law. both the new york times and the washington post have editorials on this subject in todays newspapers. i ask unanimous consent that these editorials be printed in the record.
i can understand the committees perfectly good faith. but the difficulty is that that resulted in putting title vi permanently on the shelf. and any department can very well. in the absence of title vi. refuse to disburse the discretionary funds. on the ground that title ii authority is  adequate. the same argument. incidentally. is true as to the 30day unemployment requirement. there again. the law controls and holds you to title ii substantial areas of unemployment. there is way of amending what has been said in the report. so what i would like to do is make this additional legislative history: that since this is  lawful and can be done. that the committee then will sayand here are the two senators who can say itthat as soon as title vi authority comes along. the money from this emergency supplemental appropriation which is to be used. as you advise the secretary. can then be used under title vi.
well. but that is part of a government department which has many. many functions. weand the senator ks i am the ranking member of labor and public welfarehave a situation where there are many of those functions that we deal with across the board in the standing committee.
after negotiation with members of the committee on finance. that problem has been dealt with in this bill. it is very important that the senate understand precisely what we are doing. what has happened is that instead of making a group test for these centers for the aged or making some other disposition of the problem. the committee on finance has simply lifted all such limitations and simply left it to each state to determine them on its own. i think. . that that disposition has certain dangers which depend upon each state. it was with deep regret that i was out of the country on official senate foreign relations committee assignment when the vote on h.r. 9803the day care override--occurred. which i would have supported. the debates on the previous legislation fully expounded on the need for additional funds for day care. compromise is a vital part of the legislative process. the changes contemplated in h.r. 12455 are also the result of this process. by earmarking $125 million for the remainder of fiscal year 1976 and the transitional quarter. and $250 million for fiscal year 1977 this legislation goes fax in providing quality day care for the millions of children who need this service. it will enable more mothers who desire or find it necessary to work to be able to do so. i have been a supporter of the federal interagency day care requirements. because i believe that there must be quality day care centers that meet proper standards of health and safety. and also that children receive adequate personal attention. i realize that the childstaff ratios were the most controversial of these standards. the resulting compromise of postponing these childstaff ratios for children 6 months to 6 years until october 1977 when the department of health. education. and welfare study on the appropriateness of these standards will be available is a reasonable response. it should be emphasized that the health and safety standards will remain in effect. for example. the safeguard that 50 percent of the funds must go to poor people has been taken out. that may bring about in given states a redirection of priorities. after considering the matter very carefully i came to the conclusion that the dangers and the advantages were just about evenly balanced. but the house has a different view from that of the finance committee. and so this matter will come up in conference. therefore. rather than to seek to amend the bill. because i would like to compliment the chairman and senator mondale. senator packwood. senator ribicoff. and other colleagues on making some dispositionit may  be the way i would have done itbut. etheless. they made some -disposition of a very trying issue to so many senators. and i do think they ought to consider should they meet the problem as some hard rock in conference. the solution of s. 2157. which is to place qualification on a group basis rather than on an individual basis. gain at the option of the state. it seems to me that would give. perhaps. a greater assurance than the blanket withdrawal of eligibility requirements insofar as state permissiveness is concerned in this bill. but again i would like to say to senator long that. king the problems of arriving at compromises. he undoubtedly did the very best he could.
. an article appeared in the may 6. 1976. wall street journal which commented on the office of education program for gifted and talented students. in 1973. i sponsored the legislation which established this program and ed at that time its importance: to provide what your nations gifted and talented children and youth need. when they need it. and in the manner they need it. is an investment in human resources that will benefit  only the gifted but our society for decades to come. i believe that the need for and importance of this program continues. i am pleased to e that dr. harold c. lyons. who directs the gifted and talented program within the office of education. responded to the wall street journal regarding their may 6 article. i commend dr. lyons for the leadership he has demonstrated in taking this action. and i ask unanimous consent that both the article and dr. lyons letter be printed in the record.
i would like to ask the majority leader. as a matter of courtesy. to allow us to call for a quorum. because neither the committee on labor and public welfare. of which i am a member.  the committee on commerce seems to have been advised so that we could get a miity representative on the floor.
. it represents actual cash disbursed. this is contrived deduction. this is actual cash disbursed for interest during construction. it seems to me that. with those limitations. it is very indispensable to the small builder and he should  be penalized unless it is in excess of his income which relates to building. if it does result in that excess. then he should be penalized by the amendment.
let us remember that erisa. a bill which has fiduciary standards. has criminal and civil penalties. second. there is jurisdiction  only by the committee on labor and public welfare respecting erisa but also by the committee on finance respecting erisa. and. if it any way involves actions of the attorney general. jurisdiction is by the committee on the judiciary. it will be my purpose tomorrow morning. when these hearings are opened. to spell out very carefully the separate and continuing jurisdiction of each of these committees. as to the committee on government operations. we are already asserting jurisdiction. we have gotten the necessary resources through the committee on rules and administration. and there is a very active inquiry going on. on the part of the staff. the only point is that e of these committees is in the particular situation which faces us at the moment. except the labor committee and. therefore. the labor committee has to proceed with some intelligence. hence. the resolution which is before us is very sharply confined to this particular situation and other.
i have an amendment on this rather important issue in title viii. i would like to ask the chairman whether or  he is going to proceed with the day care and other matters that the majority leader spoke of first. or is he expecting to go to title viii first.
that is very important. the last. the senator has said a 5050 matching program. that is by the employers of labor in other businesses. the senator is  talking about the alcohol industry. is that correct.
. in my judgment. the answer to the problems to the cities lies right here in congress. the house of representatives is a body which is determined by population. hence. in view of the fact that well over 70 percent of our citizens live in urban surroundings. that body ought to be very conscious of the problems of the great american cities. although the senate is represented by states. with states with very small populations having an equal representation to huge states like california and new york. it is etheless a fact that  practically every senator has within his state a city situation. it may  be a city nearly the size of new york. philadelphia. boston. chicago. or los angeles. but he has a city situation and. hence. a very. very real interest in how we work out these problems. i would  wish to make this report this morning without disclosing and joining with my colleagues in the appreciation of some very interesting things which we learned in new york and which may be of use to others. for one. i do  think there is a real appreciation of the steepness of the cuts. we have in new york laid off 40.000 city employees. and that has taken a tremendous toll.  out of luxuries or what makes people call new york the "big apple" but out of libraries. day care centers. hospitals. and adult education. this is where the cuts. . may i k how much additional time i have.
. i ask unanimous consent that floor privileges be granted for don zimmerman. of the labor committee staff. on behalf of senator huddleston i ask that floor privileges be granted to bill seale and roger lemaster. of bis staff.
will thesenator just let me finish my agrument because it freezes in by lawand that is what the internal revenue act saysthe fact that stock distribution under this plan is to be made according to salary level. so that the $100.000 employee gets 10 times as much as the $10.000 employee. that is one of its basic inequities. one of its basic insecurities is that the funds have to be invested 100 percent in the stock of the employer. therefore. the entire sum is at hazard. based on the employers business. the third difficulty is that it is a ready channel for people who have a closelyheld business. which may have marketability. to put in a plan such as this instead of some form of pension plan. thus putting the worker at the hazard of that particular block of stock and hing else. yet. that will be advertised to the worker as a pension plan. there are unique cases in which this kind of plan may be very suitable. but there are many. many cases in which. for the reasons i have given and others. it is  suitable. yet. this is the only type of plan which this bill favors. it is a unique. special benefit and discrimination in favor of a given type of plan for employee stdck holding which itself has very serious deficiencies
. i am the ranking member of that committee. the public interest which is involved in the validity of those figures has been demonstrated. the interest rate question. the state of our securities markets. and capital formation problems are intimately related to the public trust in the unemployment figures as disclosed by the bureau of labor statistics. therefore. i think it is very right that we. should try to lay at rest what seem to be grave and legitimate doubts about that subject. i favor very strongly the commission which is created by this bill.
. the issue of germaneness applies to this amendment. and i state it only because i wish the senate to be aware that i am aware of it. i do  intend to raise objections for the reason i have stated heretofore. but i do  favor germaneness objections where there is a unanimousconsent agreement. where the unanimousconsent agreement exists the senate should be encouraged to expedite business and  discourage it. so i am  raising any objection. the senator from ohio. as is characteristic of him. sees the problem. and that is the problem of opening the door. albeit through the research route" to projects which are  favored by the act. i call attention to section 311(b) of ceta which we are amending by this bill. which states as follows. and i think it is important that it be in the record: hing in this subsection shall authorize the secretary to carry out employment programs experimenting with subsidized wages in the private sector or with wages less than those established by the fair labor standards act of 1938. as amended. for employment subject to that act. i think we certainly ought to consider the amendment. i agree with senator nelson. but i do think senator taft should be aware that profits are contemplated under title iii. that does  mean we can learn a lot from business enterprise and. indeed. certain profits. to wit. various business associations. carry on programs under title iii today. so. with that caveat. i would be very glad to join senator nelson in taking the amendment to conference. i will promise the senator. on behalf of the miityas i shall be a conferee and. perhaps. he will be. tooto consult with him as to whatever disposition we think ought to be made of it in conference.
. i am pleased to support the conference report on h.r. 12455. which provides for increased funding for child care and social services programs. the conferees are to be complimented for the expeditious manner in which they have resolved differences with the house. the plight of day care in this country needs expedition. the $240 million provided through fiscal year 1977 will go far toward providing better day care for those presently enrolled. but will by means adequately reach all those who desire and could benefit from quality day care services. i am especially gratified that the conference committee agreed to permit group eligibility for title xx. this eliminates the unnecessary individual means test which threatened thousands of older americans seeking assistance under title xx. this threat to senior citizens led me to introduce s. 2157 with 39 of our senate colleagues to abolish the means test by permitting the use of group eligibility. a concept  incorporated in the conference report. the conference report includes the approach we supported in s. 2157. the report will eliminate the need for individual means tests be given to older americans and certain others receiving title xx services. i compliment the conferees for reaching an agreement which allows the use of group eligibility for senior centers. but retains the original thrust of the title xx legislation. to wit. that social services would be provided for those most in need. the report provides for group eligibility so long as substantially all those served are on income levels below 90 percent of the average state median income. this approach assures that services under title xx are provided to those intended. while avoiding the unseemly and wasteful spectacle of the federal government forcing from a senior center an older american whose income happens to be a dollar too high. in this instance. such specific determinations are best left to the state.
. i have long been a strong and active supporter of initiatives to enlarge the commonality of interests between labor and management. i continue to believe that in a climate of mutual trust. respect. and understanding. cooperation can be the rule in labormanagement relations. and collaboration can replace strife. in introducing this measure i recognize fully that two prerequisites must. be satisfied in order for improved labormanagement cooperation to take place. first. the contractual rights. benefits. and protections of the employees must  be infringed. as bruce thrasher of the united steelworkers has emphasized repeatedly. consistent with the national labor relations act the contract between the employees and their employer is sacrosanct. matters set forth in the collective bargaining contract. such as wages. hours. vacations. overtime. and other benefits and duties. can be placed on the agenda of labormanagement committee meetings. where adequate safeguards are taken to insure that employee rights under the contract are  abridged. the role of the trade union as the exclusive bargaining representative of the employees can be compromised or infringed upon. consequently. workers need  fear that labormanagement committees would be used to vitiate or abrogate what has been agreed to in the collective bargaining contract. second. employees must be convinced that cooperative efforts to improve productivity will  result in layoffs. in the past. some gainsharing plans and other productivity improvement schemes have exerted deleterious effects on employment. bezause increased output per worker became translated into a reduced work force. this phee was particularly acute in the 1950s and early 1960s. when chronic demandinsufficiency led to potential surplus production. cxxii- 1804part 22
. reserving the right to object. and i hope  to have to object. it was my understanding that there was going to be an effort to get a vote by a given hour. i see the deputy majority leader has  made that request and i am grateful for it. but i would like to ask senator bellmon on my side whether i can have a half hour out of the time on the bill. if that would  inconvenience them. or i will propose an amendment. if necessary. to discuss the unemployment compensation situation. whether or  i would move to amend. i do  k as yet. but i would like to have that.
in the first place. it would be confined only to an amendment relating to unemployment compensation. i believe it is germane. but i am  positive. i have  checked the resolution. i would ask as a parliamentary inquiry whether the chair would be in a position to rule that an amendment to the budget resolution relating to unemployment compensation. i believe that is item 600. would be in order.
could i have this assurance. i shall  offer the amendment. i do  wish to cross my friends and put them in any position where they are opposing something which they really do  oppose. and that is what i would be doing. i am fully cognizant of that. but i shall ask both senators the following: will their dispositionand i k they can control their committee eitherbe to deal seasonably with this problem. the crack i am concerned about being caught in is the budget resolution will. of course.  cover this situation. and the opportunity to deal with it. if the situation dictates that it should be dealt with. may very well  come until there is a squeeze in terms of the available vehicle in a legislative bill coming out of the ways and means committee of the house of representatives in order to add an amendment to extend the fsb program. we may be caught in that situation. if i pass up this opportunity to propose an amendment on the bill to reform the permanent unemployment compensation system. there may  be aher chance until february or march. if any. seasonably before this particular program runs out. so my questions would be this: one. is the 600 category broad egh  so that if in the next few weeks it is decided that we should seek an extension on the reform of the unemployment compensation system it would  at this time be subject to a point of order. is there plenty of money in 600 though it may  necessarily be allocated for this particular purpose.
 we will . unless there is a unanimousconsent agreement respecting debate. other than that. we can. even if senator longs motion is successful. put any amendment we want on this bill the moment after he reports it. so there is hing to stop us from offering amendments. but he feels it will ruin the mood and the very temper of the senate. i am hoping it will  be necessary to bring this issue to a vote. so long as he ks those of us deeply involved will withhold on ssi amendments. he will go ahead with the bill as it is. we will offer the amendments dealing with unemployment compensation. i can guarantee the senator that we will get this chance. there are only a few days left in the session. but everything is  black and white. it is gray. all our ssi amendments may go down the drain simply because of a lapse of time. but i still think these amendments the committee has are desirable. at least we will save them.
i wish to support the amendment of senator nelson. who offered it for me and other senators. as he has already stated. this morning in the committee on labor and public welfare. which has the jurisdiction over this particular kind of unemployment compensation. we reported a comparable bill. and this is our opportunity to get it considered both here and in the other body. it relates to a highly deserving group of employees. those excluded from the permanent vi systems. principally government employees. agricultural workers. and domestics. . this is really the only chance in this particular session to get this program carried on because it terminates on december 31. 1977. we have dealt with the retroactivity question. that is longer a problem. it is projected forward until. under the bill. these workers are covered under the permanent program on july 1. 1978. i hope very much the manager of the bill may see fit to accept it.
. some members who are here will remember that we were discussing the problems of a teacher or a professional employee in a school who during the summer vacation period may or may  be entitled to unemployment compensation depending on whether at the end of that time he actually gets his job. there were different definitions adopted by the house of representatives and the senate. the senate definition said he has "reasonable assurance" of a job. the house definition as to a professional employee says he has a "contract." senator long did  feel that he wished to change the senate position and would rather deal with it in conference. but he did indicate he would be willing to accept a provision which would make for retroactivity for that employee if in fact at the end of the summer he had job and. therefore. was actually unemployed even though it were a vacation period. provided that the claim had been filed in time. to wit. at the beginning of the summer. and the employee complied with all the rules and regulations respecting unemployment compensation. including reporting to the state agency. if he did that. and if at the end of the summer it proved that he had job. he might submit a claim for it retroactively. we have modified the amendment that way. and we hope it is satisfactory to senator l ng.
. i had planned to introduce aher amendment concerning the 120percent trigger requirement of the extended benefits program which is effective in each state. it adds to the requirement for the triggers . which are 41/2 percent national and 4 percent state. an additional requirement that the unemployment in that state must be 120 percent of the unemployment in the same month in each of the preceding 2 years.
shortly after enactment of the eb program. it became clear that to require a states insured unemployment rate to exceed the rate for the corresponding month of the previous 2 years was unrealistic. in the words of the report of house committee on ways and means on h.r. 10210: the intent of the trigger mechanism contained in the 1970 amendments was to establish an extended benefit program which would provide early response to adverse ecoic conditions ... the triggers have been unsatisfactory. particularly during periods when high unemployment has continued over a protracted period. under the 120percent requirement. a state which suffered a high level of unemployment for a period longer than 1 year would  be able to meet the state trigger requirement--regardless of whether statewide unemployment was 8 percent. 10 percent. or moreunless the rate continued to escalate. once unemployment leveled off. or began% slow decline over a period of several months. the 120percent requirement could well operz13292 ate to trigger off the eb program prematurely. we talk here of complicated and obscure numbers. but we must remember that an unemployment rate can be translated into real working american men and women who are ready. willfng. and able to go to work. but who can find gainful employment. when unemployment is high. more workers are competing for too few jobs. how does it matter to those workers. especially in a weak labor market. what percentage of the. historical unemployment rate the current rate represents. in recognition of these factors. beginning in october 1972. congress has acted 8 times in 4 years to suspend the 120percent requirement. i ask unanimous consent that a table showing the actions by congress with regard to the 120percent requirement be printed at this point in my remarks.
in considering h.r. 10210. the house of representatives recognized the infeasibility of the 120percent requirement. the history of congressional actions in waiving or modifying the requirement clearly indicate the need for its permanent repeal. the finance committee. however. has rejected permanent repeal of the 120percent requirement. despite the statement in its report on h.r. 10210. at page 19. that: the provisions of present law have  been adequate when unemployment in a state rises and remains unusually high for several years. the committee has recommended that only when statewide insured unemployment equals or exceeds 6 percent. should the states be permitted voluntarily to waive the 120percent requirement. this position is wholly unsatisfactory as compared to permanent repeal. a 6percent insured unemployment rate is the equivalent of a total unemployment rate of 8 percent or more. in my judgment. we have an emergency unemployment situation at a much lower threshold. certainly more than 6 percent. as has been recognized in previously enacted jobs and temporary unemployment assistance legislation. today. on a nationwide basis. we continue to reel under a nationwide total unemployment rate of 7.9 percent. seven and onehalf million americans are looking for jobs and can find them. in comparison. the nationwide iur is only 5.6 percent.  this is the picture on a national level where the 120percent requirement fortunately does  apply. if it did. the eb program would be currently triggered off because of this requirement. the 120percent requirement has  and will  serve a useful purpose. if unemployment is high. the program should respond by triggering on quickly. and by staying on until unemployment levels recede. under the finance committee proposal. if the national trigger were  "on." following 17 states with insured unemployment rates in excess of 4 percent would be ineligible to implement the eb program solely because of the 120 percent requirement. as of july 31. 1976: alabama. arizona. arkansas. delaware. florida. georgia. idaho. kentucky. maryland. missouri. montana. new mexico. oklahoma. oregon. south carolina. tennessee. and west virginia. indeed. among all the states. including 5 with an insured unemployment rate over 7 percent and 10 with rates between 6 and 7 percent. only 4 states would meet the 120percent requirement. and 2 of these would be ineligible to participate because their statewide iur is  above 4 percent. . i said i had planned to propose an amendment to strike the finance committees amendment restoring the 120 percent requirement. however. considering the vote on the last alnendment i do  believe. in fairness to the workersthe unemployed workers who would suffer under this 120percent triggerand i should. rather. i should let the matter go to conference. as the house and senate differ in this. therefore. i will refrain from introducing the amendment.
. this has been a matter of long standing. one ks it better than i. i feel that it should have a hearing and consideration. i am a bit embarrassed by the present situation. and it will affect my vote because we have tried to strip this bill of everything but unemployment compensation. there is unanimous agreement or anything like that for it. but we told senator long we would  bring anything up on ssi. i think that also impliedly meant anything else which could mean a conference where there would be differences of view. we k there is considerable labor opposition to this. i only say that by way of explanation. i wish to say affirmatively. first. that if this should fail . and it may. i will do my utmosti wish to promise the senatorto get a deliberative hearing very early in the year. second. i hope the senator will carefully examine the amendment which i think could stand some attention in drafting. third. this is an emous undertaking. there are some 7 million small businesses in the country. and we really could inundate the department with it at the expense of enforcement and everything else. as the senator ks. consultative services can be provided in 3 or 4 million places at once. but i did wish to explain to the senator my own situation respecting using this bill as the vehicle. in view of what we told senator long in order to induce him to keep ssi material in the bill.
. i concur with the views expressed by my colleagues. senator williams and senator taft. that the products liability problem needs to be given further and more intensive consideration by the congress. as the ranking miity member of the small business committee. i listened with great interest to the statements of many businessmen and other witnesses who testified in great detail about the inability of machine tool and other manufacturers to obtain product liability insurance at a reasonable rate. several witnesses expressed alarm over the ability of their companies to continue to survive in the face of skyrocketing costs. some indicate that their product liability insurance premiums had risen as much as 500 percent over the past 3 to 4 years. these hearings before the small business committee were  the first in the senate to consider the products liability problem. as senator williams has indicated. the labor and public welfare committee. on which i also serve as the ranking miity member. has had this matter before it since march of this year. in its consideration of s. 2018. the workers compensation reform bill. which chairman williams and i have coauthored. we have received much testimony on the issue of third party liability in products liability actions. i believe that the committee will again consider the products liability issue in the context of workers compensation reform when it considers such legislation next year. i believe that the members of the committee have  become more aware of the serious problems involved and will seek an early opportunity to consider various alternative approaches to the apportionment of damages in cases of employee injuries arising out of the negligence of his employer in the maintenance or alteration of the machine or in putting it to a use for which it is  intended. where. in fact. it was the employers negligence that caused the injury. when a worker is injured on the job and his employer has been negligent. it would seem that employer should  be permitted to use the workers compensation system as a shield to establish total financial immunity in suits against the thirdparty manufacturer. the area of products liability law. particularly as the doctrine of strict liability has developed. is a relatively new and complex one. to the extent that it comes within the jurisdiction of the labor and public welfare committee. i fully expect that the information we have received on the developing law of product liability. as it relates to traditional concepts of workers compensation liability. will be the subject 6f intensive study and. hopefully. of legislative actions in the first session of the next congress.
. i have a question for senator hartke. i have a letter from the secretary of labor pointing out that he thought it was unwise to establish veterans employment services separately in the department. that is contained in the bill. is it .
it presents a question of jurisdiction here because the labor committee. of which i am the ranking miity member. has  even considered it. indeed have never heard of it. should we take it out and leave the situation neutral. and i will pledge to the senator to look into it. if it is needed. i am sure that senator williaws and i and our colleagues will see that it is given.
: the low income. aged. blind. and disabled. it includes them for benefits which are on a ratio equal to the per capita income of their per capita territory. as related to the per capita income of the state of the united states with the lowest per capita income. so we are  talking about extensive benefits. the difference. however. is very. very sharp. as the matter stands . ssi beneficiaries are entitled-
. i should like to answer very briefly. and i will  detain the senate very long. some of the points made by senator long. if we were anxious to chase people back to puerto rico. we would have to reducewhich we can dowhat they get on ssi in new york. even if this amendment becomes law. what they get on ssi in new york will be twice or more what this amendment calls for in puerto rico. the reason is that the amendment will give the ssi payments on the basis of twothirds of what the ssi beneficiaries receive in mississippi. which is the lowest income state of the 50 states. in short. the income in mississippi is about $3.000 and in puerto rico it is about $2.000. so this is the lowest possible benefit. and there is inducement to chase people down to puerto rico. i respectfully submit that we are too sophisticated here to be taken in by the idea of beating new york or illis or michigan or pennsylvania over the head. as an argument. so that argument is invalid. second. senator long said that everybody in puerto rico would get this. we have had this studied by the social security administration. it will affect about 184.000 people on the sst. about 70 percent. as the outside possibility. of some 255.000 to 260.000 of the elderly. 65 years of age and older.
. it is time we began to relieve some of the disproportionate burden of joblessness borne by young americans. joblessness among the young people of our country is a once ubiquitous problem that has reached crisis proportions. six quarters of ecoic recovery have left our youth almost as badly off in terms of employment as they were during the 19731975 recession. and. for all practical purposes. that recession was a depression as far as youths were concerned. hence. youth unemployment is a problem that will  just "go away." regardless of the vigor of ecoic growth in the next few years and needs special measures. at the present time. fully onehalf of the total number of unemployed persons in the united states are under the age of 24. the national commission for manpower policy reports that "at any one time in 1975. 3.6 million jobseekers between the ages of 16 and 24 were unable to find jobs." in ember. 1976. the unemployment rate of teenagers stood at 19 percent. three times greater than the unemployment rate of those over 20 years of age. since even this abmally high rate represents average unemployment among all youths in the united states. it is necessary to disaggregate the total and to focus upon the specific categories of youth unemployment. in order to observe the severity of unemployment among the more disadvantaged groups. while the unemployment rate of white teenagers held at the unacceptable crisis level of 17.1 percent last ember. the unemployment rate of black teenagers exceeded 35 percent nationally. in many cities. it is  unusual for the unemployment rate of black youths to exceed 50 percent. and reliable estimates have placed the unemployment rate of metropolitan poverty area blacks to approach 60 percent. it is significant to emphasize that the absolute and relative rates of youth unemployment in the united states are far above those recorded in most other industrialized nations. the following table. included in a recent report on this problem by the congressional budget office indicates the relative severity of this problem in the united states.
. we had a very exhaustive hearing on the marshall ination and it was quite extraordinary. though it was concentrated in 1 day. we have a record before us of almost 250 pages which has been supplemented by a number of letters which were written to us. either to the chairman of the committee. to me. or to other members. who posed written questions to dr. marshall. dr. marshall struck me as an enlightened. thoughtful. american with essentially very sound doctrine and quite abreast of the primary advances in respect of labor law. these advances in labor law. which are the essence of the objections made by a number of my colleagues. relate to the concept of grievance procedures and grievance onportunity. dr. marshall. like so many other men. may  have used precisely the words he intended to use in order to describe his position. for example. a matter which was of great concern to me. as it is to my colleagues who will argue against the ination. is the question of whether there should be a grievance procedure or collective action by troops in the armed forces. both my colleagues and i were disturbed by the answer which dr. marshall gave. since in his answer he did  precisely define his terms. however. i think his letter is a very accurate statement which speaks to the question of adequate opportunity for men and women in the armed forces. who are recruited out of the civilian component of our labor force. to express their grievances in some way which insures that they can be overlooked or overridden by their superiors. i should point out that this does represent a problem which has to be dealt with. probably  by the labor department. but by the defense department. the problem of military unions emerged in the course of our committee hearing. dr. marshall was asked about this by senator hatch. i refer  to page 107 of the record. senator hatch. there has been some consideration of a union in the armed forces. what are your views with regard to a unionized military.
i call attention of members to the long list of questions and answers put to him in writing and to which he has  replied. one thing i doubt very much. is that even those who are opposed to dr. marshall would say that there is any question about his being a man of his word. he demonstrated to the committee a very great sincerity as well as a true intellectual kledge and understanding of the labor problems which face our country. i should also mention that he has a very profound common touch. he has worked with laboring people. both in cities and in rural areasthe latter experience being. in my judgment. rather unique to a secretary of labor and extremely valuableand he has a very deep human sympathy and possesses real humility. i think. . i believe he brings to his job experience which is uniquely applicable. as an example of dr. marshalls ability to cope with complex labor issues i will point to the need for a very thoroughgoing investigation of the situation respecting the teamsters central states pension fund. such an investigation can proceed under the pension legislation which senator williams and i had the ho to author. together with others of our colleagues on the finance committee. dr. marshall has assured us that he is determined to conduct such an investigation and he has given us an excellent letter to that effect. which i ask unanimous consent be printed in the record.
. today i introduce the human resources development act. companion bill of what representative stanley lundine of new york has introduced in the house. our bill is similar in thrustthough changed somewhatto the bill mr. lundine and i introduced in the closing days of the 94th congress and for which i testified before the house subcommittee on education and labor. and i ask unanimous consent to have that testimony included in the record.
. mi changes in the language. and structure of the current. bill have been made. to simplify and. clarify its purpose. it is my belief that consideration of the problem of common situsi picketing requires also a broad. review of collective bargaining in. the construction. industry. accordingly this bill also incorporates a construction. industry collective. bargaining title essentially identical to title ii of s. 1479 passed by the. senate. during the last congress. in this way. the committee on human resources will be able to consider common situs picketing in the. framework also of the reform of the collective bargaining. structure. in the construction industry. common srrus the common situs picketing bill establishes picketing rights for construction workers comparable. to those already existing in the. industrial sector. the basic purpose of the bill is tol treat general contractors and subcontractors at a construction site as a single person for purposes of the secondary boycott provisions of the national labor relations- act. where there is a labor dispute with a general contractor at a construction site. unions will be permitted to undertake strike activity. including picketing. directed  only at the general. contractor. but at all the subcontractors at that site as well. likewise. where there is a labor dispute with a subcontractor at a construction site. unions will be empowered to direct strike activity. including picketing.  only against that subcontractor. but against the general contractor and the other subcontractors at the site of the dispute. section 8(b) (4) (b) of the nlra. the secondary boycott provision of the tafthartley act. makes it an unfair labor practice for a union to strike or picket where an object thereof is to force an employer to cease doing business with aher employer the purpose of such provisions is to protect the business of a third person. a neutral employer. who has power to resolve a disagreement between aher employer and his employees. the secondary boycott provisions are  intended. however. to. interfere with a unions right to exert legitimate ecoic pressure aimed at the employer with whom there is a primary dispute. such primary activity is  an unfair labor practice even though it may seriously affect neutral employers because these distinctions under section 8(b) (4) (b). and other provisions of the act are  always easy to discern. it has been left to the nlrb and the courts to establish the criteria for differentiating between legal primaryand prohibited secondary activity. and thus to resolve the inherent tension between the right to strike and the right of neutral employers to keep from becoming enmeshed in a dispute with aher employer by his workers. the distinctions drawn by the nlrb and the federal courts with respect to the picketing rights of labor in the construction industry. as compared with other industries. have been illogical and inequitable. and require congressional modification. this modification is the purpose of this bill. the errors in interpretation of the secondary boycott provisions with regard to the construction industry sought to be corrected were created by the nlrb and the supreme court decisions in the case of nlrb v. denver building trades. 342 u.s. 675 (1951). the court there upheld the boards determiation that because the general contractor and subcontractors on a building site were separate businesses. they were to be treated as neutrals with respect to each others labor disputes. accordingly a union involved in a labor dispute with one subcontractor could  picket the other contractors and subcontractors at the job site without engaging in a secondary boycott in violation of section 8(v) (4) (b) of the act. the better view. and the one adopted in the bill. was expressed by justice douglas in his dissent to the denver building trades decision. the picketing would undoubtedly have been legal if there had been subcontractor involvedif the general contractor had put union men on the job. the presence of a subcontractor does  alter one with the realities of the situation. the protest of the union is precisely the same. in each the union was trying to protect the job on which union men were employed. if that is forbidden. the tafthartley act makes the right to strike. guaranteed by  13. dependent on fortuitous business arrangements that have significance so far as the evils of the secondary boycott are concerned. i would give scope to both  8(b) (4) and  13 by reading the restrictions of  8(b) (4) to reach the case where an industrial dispute .spreads from the job to aher front. (341 u.s. at 694) the bill is designed to conform the law "to the realities of the situation" as ed by justice douglas. it permits picketing at a job site which protests the presence of union construction workers and is addressed to employees of all employers at the job site. thus it overrules the holding of the denver building trades case and in its place substitutes standards for picketing at construction sites similar to those  existing for picketing at industrial sites. as former secretary of labor john dunlop stated when he testified in support of this legislation before the 94th congress: both sides in the construction industry have long been of the general view that a construction site should have a common labor relations policy regardless of how many separate contracts of contractors. prime or subcontractors. are involved. the mixing of labor policies is  conducive to industrial peace. productivity. or good management. i agree with this statement and can only conclude that to construe section 8 (b) (4) of the act to prohibit common situs picketing at construction projects flies in the face of sound federal labor relations policy. the highly integrated nature of the construction workplace with various interrelated contractors and their employees working in an interdependent situation establishes that the denver building trades case was wrongly decided by the supreme court. that it has also created an aaly between picketing rules applicable to workers at industrial facilities. and those applicable to construction workers. is demonstrated by the supreme courts subsequent ruling in a 1961 decision. kn as the general electric case. local 761 iue v. nlrb. 336 u.s. 667. in general electric there was a dispute between general electric and the iue representing its employees at a large industrial site. the iue. representing a production and maintenance unit. was engaged in a lawful strike. its picketing in furtherance of that strike included appeals to the employees of an independent maintenance contractor on the site as a gate reserved for building and construction contractors employees. the supreme court held that the picketing of independent contractors is permissible. and does  violate the secondary provisions of section 8(b) (4). where the primary dispute is with the industrial employer--geand work done by the independent contractor is related to the mal operations of that industrial employer. the supreme court. in this case. thus enunciated the "related work" doctrine applicable to employees working at industrial sites. this holding has . however been applied to construction sites. and the denver building trades case remain to this day the applicable law at a construction site. the bill embodies and gives proper scope to the "connected work" test stated in general electric. the purpose of the legislation is to apply the primarysecondary dichotomy recognized in that caseand since reaffirmed and implemented in. for example. steelworkers v. labor board. 376 u.s. 492 (1964) (carrier) and woodwork manufacturers v. nlrb. 386 u.s. 612 (1967) (national woodwork)-to the construction industry in a realistic manner. by treating the general contractor and his subcontractors as a single person for purposes of the secondary boycott provision of the law. this approach reflects the ecoic realities in the building and construction industry where the contractor and all the subcontractors are engaged in a common venture and each is performing tasks closely related to the mal operations of all the others. the construction of a building is a single. coordinated and integrated ecoic enterprise. the contractor can perform the total job. or subcontract various parts thereof. if he decides to subcontract. he chooses the subcontractors with care. and exercises overall supervision. if he chooses to subcontract to a union subcontractor who pays less than the prevailing union wage and wins the bid for that reason. the contractor can claim "neutrality" when the unions protest by picketing the job site. this view of "neutrality" underlies this bill and is its essence. this bill thus conforms the law to what should be the proper application of the primary picketing doctrine to the construction industry and thereby specifically overrules the decision in the denver building trades case. this legislation contains a number of safeguards designed to insure that common situs picketing is conducted in a responsible manner. before engaging in common situs picketing as provided by this legislation. a labor union must first give at least 10 days advance written ice of its intention to strike to all other unions and all employers including the general contractor. at the construction site. and to any national or international labor organization with which it is affiliated. a related requirement is that when the union is affiliated with a national or international labor organization. that organization must give its written approval of the common situs picketing before it may occur. read together. these requirements will provide a "cooling off" period during which the local parties and the national labor organization will have the opportunity to resolve the dispute without resort to a work stoppage. these legislative provisions incorporate our trust in the mediating influence of the international building trades organizations which will receive these 10day common situs picketing ices. i expect that during this 10day "cooling off" period the international unions will take an active role in attempting to resolve the underlying labor disputes peacefully and thereby eliminate the need to engage in a work stoppage through common situs ecoic activity." these provisions will also protect against the use of common situs picketing in "wildcat" strike situations. this bill limits picketing permitted at the common situs to activity directed at employers "in the construction industry." where the construction site is at an industrial plantfor example. an addition to a manufacturing facilitythe owner of the plant will  be treated as a single person with the general contractor who is engaged to perform such construction work. in that situation. when the dispute is with the general construction contractor or one of his subcontractors. the owner of the industrial facility may. by establishing a separate gate for the construction employees. confine the picketing to that gate and thereby insulate his own industrial employees from picketing. in accord with the general electric decision. 366 u.s. at 681. this legislation also recognizes and respects provisions of state law which require contracts on public construction projects to be awarded to separate bidders for specific aspects of the job. common situs picketing will be permitted among the separate contractors mandated by these state separatebidding statutes. it further prohibits picketing with the objective of job discrimination against an employee on the basis of sex. race. creed. color. or national origin. or on the basis of that individuals membership or membership in a union. it protects independent unions  affiliated with national labor organizations by prohibiting common situs picketing which attempts to force them off the job. in addition. it reaffirms the acts prohibition against recognitional picketing where there is already a lawfully recognized labor organization representing the contractors employees. and. of course. it does  legalize jurisdictional strikes. which remain barred by section 8(b) (4) (d) of the act. the bill also contains a provision to insure that. except for the limited and carefully defined authorization to conduct common situs picketing. hing in s. 1479 is to be construed to legalize any existing conduct constituting an unfair labor practice under the act. the intense level of debate among interest groups. in the press and in the last congress was an overreaction to an overdue bill. the bill embodies basic federal labor policies which rely on the interplay of ecoic forces to .resolve disputes between labor and management over wages and other terms and conditions of employment. this is basic to our system of social and ecoic justice. this bill corrects a misinterpretation of these sound policies and i will urge its prompt enactment.
yes. it would be entirely possible to go to the white house for lunch. because it would  tend to affect the present or future performance of the senators duty. depending upon the mind and disposition of the senator. that is exactly what i am coming to. and that is why i ask that the senator permit me to complete my argument. therefore. i believe that senators. within this confine. require some specifications. and that is why we inserted the specificationssome specifications as to what we mean by these broad generalities. which could be very hazardous to members in the hands of an ethics committee which had it in for them. that is. hence. the specificity with which we dealt with many matters in this code. so i believe that the way in which to resolve this situation is to be sure that. in the finite details that we prescribe. we are realistic and practical. there seems to be a lot of deep feeling about 15 percent. i do  agree with senator muskie to take it all. or whatever other scheme he wants. but some reasonable figure. we had 25. that may be the reasonable figure that a consensus of the senate can arrive at. similarly. with respect to gifts or any other matter. let us make them practical and realistic. but let us have a reasonable amount of specificity. so that members are  cast adrift with the general statements which the ethics committee can use against them and bring them up on trial and cause heavy penalties if they believe one of these general statements is violated. i believe that is the way. the only way. in which we can fashion this code. as a member of the committee. i have listened with deep attention to my colleagues. i am going to propose half a dozen amendments of my own in connection with things we have since picked up. which seem unwise or impractical. and i will vote for other amendments. but let us collaboratively try to obey both those principlesone. the general statement which gives the ethics committee a handle on anybody and. two. as much specificity as is needed to give members a guideline for conduct. where members feel that we are being impractical or unrealistic. let them come forward with their amendments. and i think they will find that most of us. even the members of the committeeand that includes those of us who may feel even more keenly about it than some otherswill be generous and openminded about trying to write the specific terms. in addition. there is flap about this. if we take all week. it is all right. this is the right exercise to go through. it is an open. public explanation of our situation. finally. i should like to close with this: if we are going to adjust everything to what a man who is a bluecollar worker or a mal whitecollar worker owns. forget it. we are getting $57.500 . we were getting $44.000 before. in order of magnitude. that is high level pay. we must assume that the public are sending us high level people. or. if they are . at least we want them to do so. and we do  want to discourage high level people from coming here. and we easily could. within those parameters. bearing in mind that that is big money. anyhow. whether it is $25.000 plus $57.000 or $8.000 plus $57.000. the order of magnitude is the same. at that point i agree with the senator that we have to trust to the fact that the american people have some sense and a sense of perspective and a sense of proportion. i think we can work it out upon those principles.
. . i would like to comment on the whole presentation. the only addition i would like to make occurs in respect of a statement madei will come to this last pointboth by senator ribicoff and senator clark about income from investment holdings of a spouse being used to pay for vacations for the family or the cost of sending their children to expensive private schools. and so on. the only thing i want to be sure of is that we mean material. it is understood there has got to be some material contribution.
. reserving the right to object and i shall  object. i have four amendments to the measure and i shall present them. but i will do my utmost. i wish to assure the senator. because i agree with him about the unemployment compensation. to make the time only as to what is absolutely essential. i do  agree with him about amendments. we rarely do. that they are complicated things like that. but we will argue that when the time comes. i will do my utmost to make it possible to finish about 10 a.m.. and i am glad the leader said 10 a.m.. because we may want to vote the next morning. after debating the bill. so i will have objection to the arrangement. provided it includes 10 a.m. on thursday.
. we are  adding on. we are taking away. there is  in effect a 65week federal program. we are taking away 13 by this bill. i agree with that. but that does  mean you take away so much as to jeopardize the ecoic security of hundreds of thousands of americans. i think that is a very important and conclusive argument. i have heard absolutely hing except the fact that the finance committee wants to take advantage of the fact that. on mal statistical curves. unemployment tends to become a little lower in september. e of us is herei hope king full well that unemployment is going to go up again after the fall. when people can become available for jobs. second. i heard that we were going to come up with retraining programs. thank heaven we are. but does my colleague tell me that they are going to be ready by september 30. 1977. i will  even embarrass him with the question. unless he wants to answer it.
. i would like to ask the chairman of the finance committee a question. there are quite detailed specifications in the conference report. which my staff has just had the chance to read. respecting the duty of an unemployed worker to accept aher job. we just wanted to be sure that e of those cancel out the basic proposition that. if that worker is in an approved training program. that then he may continue in that program and is  obliged to accept aher job under any of those conditions or risk being cut off from unemployment benefits.
i thank the chairman. . regarding the recession in terms of the individual worker. this morning i attended a hearing at which prof. john kenneth galbraith. of harvard. testified. we all k him very well. he is a distinguished american. it clearly emerged there that. considering the opec drain upon the world. we could face a serious ecoic situation. much worse than the present one. without being a prophet of doom. but being realistic. we are responsible for the lives and fortunes of so many people. we only think of unemployment going down. unemployment can. however. go up. one thing on which senator long and i do agree is the real solicitude we have for people who are hit.  through any fault of their own with ecoic hardship. it is something we have shared all of our lives here. i take great pride in it and i am sure he does. too. i hope very much. i say to the senator. that the committee on finance will continue to examine this situation. even though the permanent ui act does  figure in this bill. from that point of view. are we prepared for rainy days. very rainy days. as well as sunny days. e of us is prescient. we may find that the situation couldi hope it will . and i shall kk myself out with my colleagues in the hope that it will . but we have to remember that this system has to have the durability to sustain itself also through adverse periods. i thank my colleague very much for his concern.
 since franklin d. roosevelt. the center today consists of three major coordinated units: the human resources research and program development institute. with its many demonstration employment projects involving the participation of banking. insurance. and manufacturing. abilities. inc.. the centers original work facility which serves as the model for 51 similar versions throughout the world. and the human resources school. chartered by the board of regents of the state of new york. which provides tuitionfree. fully accredited education to some 230 severely disabled students from infancy through senior high. recently. several house and senate professional staff members visited the center. i am advised by the miity counsel to the human resources committee that the staff site visit concluded that the centers broad spectrum of programs could well serve as a national model for severely disabled persons job training and placement. academic and vocational education. independent living. research. and information dissemination. i ask unanimous consent that a report on the human resources center 1976 programs and activities be printed in the record.
i thank the senator. these also include the possibility of various kinds of accelerated depreciation. they include the possibility of accelerated depreciation for placing industrial and business facilities in areas hard hit by unemployment and for government incentives for housing. a critically important lack in our country to this very moment. and aher reason for the serious recession. in addition. we may have targeted measures to deal with other areas where unemployment is very high. especially among youths. miities. and women. a question i raise  is this.  himself has signaled. i respectfully submit that as a point of view to my colleagues.
it seems to me that the point made by our colleague. senator long. is precisely the reason why this amendment should be adopted. the danger of exploitation of this particular proposition. which has always bedeviled this field. is much worse if the field is limited. and that is what this amendment would be left with if we did  -have this restriction to some qualification for people who have been unemployed for some substantial period. that is a way to restrict it. that is a reasonable provision to hold it down and see it is  abused. otherwise. it is as wide as a barn door. if the senator is right. that they will fire good people and hire unemployed people. all he is doing is giving them more customers in order to further subvert what the purpose of this amendment is. indeed. frankly. i am against the haskell amendment for that reason. and besides it is going to cost a fortune. $1 billion is the price tag for the haskell amendment. that is without the cap. and the senator is against the cap. so i think that the proposition offered us by the senator dole is a far more proper one for the fact that we are trying to target our remedy with the greatest ecoy to the things that ails us. and i hope very much that the senate will see the dole amendment that way.
these are. some. but far from all. of the structural defects to which i refer.. to complicate our problem even further we have the fact that there has been a very material fall in productivity in the united states which for decades was the great strength of this country. our ability to produce per man hour in a way in which other nation could. both. because of the methods of production and the machinery through which production was carried. on. we are  in the cellar. as they say in baseball. among the 10 leading industrial nations of the world in terms of productivity. these problems have presented us with certain results which also make the problems even more severe. to wit. and inadequate capital investment. a very disappointing capital investment development even in the recovery. which is ongoing right . which leaves us. and threatens to continue to leave us.. in the cellar on thisissue of productivity. let us look at a figure which is interesting. the council of ecoic advisers. in its 1977 annual report to- the president. ed that.. while growth and. output per manhour in- the private business ecoy averaged 3.3 percent in the years from 1948 to 1966. it. fell by onethird. to 2.1 percent. in the. years from 1966 to 1973. though the data was  immediately available for the years following that. the council. which- is an official council of the president. itself. declared thatthe decline in productivity growth has been. appreciative and the report said the reasons for this slowdown are.  fully understood. one reason adduced by. the cea report is a marked slowing in the- growth of capital relative to the growth of labor input as measured in hours of labor. increases in the capitallabor ratio. whichhave been associated closely with gains in. labor productivity. so the growth of the labor force hns accelerated since the mid1960s. but the growth of the capital stock. which makes the labor force truly meaningful in terms of production. has  kept pace. it is a very severe and serious problem. finally. many of our experts are  coming up with a proposition that our industrial plant is obsolescent. the vaunted and justifiably vaunted power of our country in terms of its productive machinery is getting out of date. simply because it has  been adequately renewed. we see  quite a number of demonstrations and stories which tell us that industrial plants of one kind and aher. in countries which mally did  keep pace with the united statesin western european countries. in japan. and. indeed. in other parts of the world. even some of the less developed countriesare far ahead of our own in terms of the modern techogies which are employed. in short. because of the difficulties which i have described. the very elementary strength of our country in this particular field is ebbing. if we are going to do anything constructive with a stimulus program which depends upon taxation. we have to make a strong and definitive move in that regard. . this is even a superior point to the ones i have uttered. and for this reason. withstanding our detractors all over the world. our detractors in the socalled free world and our detractors in the socalled communist world. the fact is that the u.s. ecoy is the. linch pin of the worlds ecoy. if our ecoy is-  strong and prosperous. the whole world lags with the most- devastating social effects and effects upon the prospects for peace and the prospects for freedom. let alone their ecoic and political effects.
there is question. about it. we understand herethough the senator and i do  necessarily vote the same. way on many things--that we can. always please everybody. that you. can run a government. without cost. with. respect to armaments. the sovietl people are paying right out of their backs. almost onethird of the- national sustenance.. which is an unbelievable figure. but that is what they are doing. you. can. do that. without it costing a great deal of money- and a great deal of taxes. therefore.- we can be popular all the time. we have to tax. too. but when. we can. as in a situation such as this. asi have. described it. we certainly should do it. and it certainly will contribute to the point the senator makesto wit. giving the individual more disposable income of his own.
. last friday. april 22. the employment subcommittee of the senate human resources committee. of which i am the ranking miity member. held the third of 3 days of hearings on s. 1242. the youth employment and training act. the committee and the nation had the benefit of the fine testimony of three of our distinguished colleagues: the senator from oklahoma . the senator from new mexico (mr. domenici) and the senator from idaho
. i strongly support this amendment which would continue the countercyclical assistance program for an additional six quarters. the program which targets aid to areas of high unemployment is especially important to new york state. in my state. there are many areas of high unemployment. particlularly new york city and the buffalo area. which need this money very badly. i would have preferred a longer extension as was originally proposed in the amendment but i am willing to go along with a shorter extension in the interest of expediting enactment of this measure. the countercyclical assistance program has worked well in providing funding to state and local governments where unemployment is severe and the impact of the recession is widely felt. we are  yet out of the woods in the theast and this program is still very much needed.
. the testimony of the ranking member and the chairman of the appropriations committee is certainly impressive. except for one thing. we are up against the hard rock of the fact that ever since this program started. the curve of unemployment has been going up and up. and we have had the worst unemployment since the great depression. all we are trying to do in this program  today is to look at 10 percent of that. it seems to us. those of us who are for this. that that represents a fair proportion of what we can do in respect of the emergency which we face. it is 10 percent of the aggregate unemployment. i think all these arguments would be valid if we were trying to encompass a great proportion of the unemployment. but we are . it is a marginal proposition. and the marginal basis of it today at 5 percent is much too low for its purpose. that is what it really gets down to. we can reform the interior problems. but we have to have adequate numbers to make some kind of a modest dent in this way. and that is the basis why we believe the amendment should be defeated.
i thank my colleague. and i thank my colleague from utah. . is that the department does  think so and will  administer it that way. i presented this amendment to the committee. as it was my duty to do as i am the ranking member of the human resources committee. and i was faced with the same argument by senator randolph and by his staff saying. "well. well take care of these projects. theyre thoroughly subsumed under part e." i questioned the representative of the department who was there and i have the written record of this man and his answers. his name is mr. herman of the department. who was their man sent to us to deal with any questions that arose. mr. herman answered in the way i thought was satisfactory. i will read that to the senate. buti said.-"put it in writing." when they put it in writing. it was  the same as his answers. i withdrew the amendment when he answered the questions i asked him in what i thought gave assurance that this program would be continued. when i got the letter. it differed from his answers. so i am perforce compelled to introduce the amendment. the amendment is cosponsored by 5 members of the 15man committee. and by other senators as well. my name and seven other sponsors are on the amendment. but of members of the committee. senator kennedy. senator chafee. senator hatch. senator hayakawa. and i sponsored the amendment. let me just acquaint my colleagues with this because i think it is essential to get clear to the senate just what happened here. mr. herman was asked by me. and this is page 35 of the record: senator javrrs. i am asking you  if we eliminate 0. will you still have authority left to fund those projects for which there are applications. he told us there were about 200 applications.
i can commit the secretary of labor to particular parts of demonstration projects. but i certainly concur with the senator that this is a most desirable way of using his authority respecting developmental experiments and pilot projects.
 and the secretary of labor to initiate the formation of a task force to study this serious problem. such a task force was commissioned. and included staff of the white house. the labor department. and the majority and miity of the senate human resources committee and the senate environment and public works committee. the youth employment and training act of 1977. the bill  before us. was developed as a result of the consultations of this task force. and introduced on april 6 by senator nelson. myself. and other colleagues. although. as i pointed out the day we introduced it. i was  entirely satisfied with some aspects of s. 1242. it was. an excellent bill as introduced. and a shining example of the value of administrationcongress consultation in the development of legislation. led by our chairman. the distinguished senator from wisconsin . the senate subcommittee on employment. poverty. and migratory labor. on which i have the ho to serve as ranking republican. held 3 days of hearings on s. 1242. and accepted a number of amendments including those i offered on behalf of myself and senator
i do  want us to forget that point. again i quote: but you have to consider it relative to the total problem that young people face. and we think the things we are contemplating doing in other parts of ceta are also necessary and that these are complementary and what our conception of the youth population and programs to deal with it is that we re trying to be comprehensive about it. trying to think out a balanced program that will meet the needs of most groups and give us some flexibility in delivery mechanisms because i think both of those are important. while keeping in mind the need to manage the program as effectively as we can and to be sure we accomplish the objectives. that we get meaningful work done and that the training itself is meaningful. we have thought about that. i was  satisfied with that answer and neither would the senator have been. so i pursued it. . i continue at page 33. line 9: senator javits. i dont want to put words in your mouth. but what we are concerned about is as executive legislators have pretty well agreed on this bill with the changes being suggested which are . after all. essential. but the billion dollars which will be used consonant withi think -that is a fair wordthe policy and principle of this bill before us. secretary alanshall. let mr. edes expand on that. mr. edes is the deputy under secretary of labor for legislative affairs of the department of labor.
on page 66 of the bill. section 4 expressly picks up these funds. the $1 billion. and provides that: sec. 4. in order to provide for an orderly transition to youth employment and training activities funded under title viii of the comprehensive employment and training act of 1973 (as added by this act). the secretary of labor shall use the funds available from appropriations under the ecoic stimulus appropriations act of 1977 for youth employment and training activities to the maximum extent consistent with law. in such a manner as to be in accordance with the provisions of such title viii. so i think it is locked in very well.
it is a question of first impression to me. interestingly egh. this farm boy from new york city joined senator bellmon in this bill. as does senator nelson. i think it is a very good idea. .and i am appalled that i did  push for hearings. which i certainly could have done easily. it strikes me that there are areas under b and c. perhaps  necessarily precisely along the lines of senator bellmons proposal. for example. i iced that in part b. which is the 16 to 19 groupgenerally called senator staffords ideas in this particular areawe talk about weatherization. for example. page 37. line 8. reads: community improvement projects means projects providing work which would  otherwise be carried out. including. but  limited to. the rehabilitation or improvement of public facilities. neighborhood improvement. weatherization and basic repairs to low income housing ... most of the lowincome housing. as a matter of fact. in terms of a relationship to total housing. probably is located in rural areas. they are very poorly housed in many areas. of course. part a refers to public lands. and again it raises a problem. so i think there is latitude as senator mcclure has described under part c. it would be my duty and my pleasure to press the labor department to see what can be done to try out the senators concept under such provisions of this bill as allowable. and let us take it from there. i think that is the way to proceed.
two things: one. the senator mentioned a number of cities where this is a pressing problem. we have a very pressing problem in the state of new york. with the socalled mitchelllama projects. and that is the reason representative hanley offered his amendment in the house. mitchelllama assisted by section 236 are covered by present law but those  so assisted are  covered. the hanley amendment would broaden the coverage to include state and local projects  assisted by section 236 and would broaden the operating subsidy to include other operating costs such as maintenance. whatever amendment we adopt here will give us an opportunity in conference to shape the appropriate remedy. i was contemplating an amendment more inclusive. with the other sections to which the senator has referred. however. for the very reasons that the senator is supporting the approach we are taking here . i am  going to put that forward. i will go with senator chafee. because i. too. believe that we will get further. once we have these hearings and a factual base for our situation. to get relief in cooperation with hud. even if it takes aher month or 2. it is always better to get the agency to work with you. rather than have it feel that something has been forced down its throat. the senator has read my mind perfectly. i stand with the chafee amendment. as it may be modified by amendments to it. for reasons i have stated. i express the gratitude of these people of my state to the senator from massachusetts for the indefatigable way in which he has pursued these issues relating to percentage income spent by the poor and the near poor on projects in which rents are federally supported in one way or aher. it has been an inspiration. it has been a longstanding cause. he has pursued it most ably. but what is even more important. he has pursued it most justly to the people concerned and to the people of the united states.
i do  think it is at all. i consider myself entirely consistent with the manager of the bill. and am prepared to join in the interpretation that to the extent that the law requires the federal presence. the federal presence must be there. but all i say is that it does  exclude a broad measure of agreement with the states in areas where the federal presence is  dictated and mandated by the law. i do  believe that the degree of participation by staff must be the same in every state. as far as the secretary of labor is concerned. but my interpretation of the sections which permit agreements with the states is just exactly the same as that of the senator from new jersey. where the federal presence. as he has pointed out. is required. it must be there. but where the statute permits complementary state agency presence. then the state may act. provided the secretary has agreed.
. i believe. as to the items of this compromise that i have read. that items (a). (c). and (d) are themselves encompassed within the provisions  in the senate code of ethics. to wit: for purposes of this paragraph. an interest is in the constructive control of a reporting individual if the enhancement of the interest would substantially benefit the reporting individual. i do  believe that anything is added. really. because i think it is within the spirit of items (a). (c). and (d) that if an individual has any real interest in the matter. that individual should report it. of courseeither direct or indirect. or constructive. or whatever. the only questions that worry me are these. and i would like to kind of talk these out with the manager of the bill: one is this: he or she shall have kledge of such interest. that raises this question: if we look at the code of ethics and what is required to be reported. we find that it relates to subsection (a) (3) of this particular provision. which says this: the identity of each source of income. other than earned income. received during such calendar year which exceeds $100. and so on. that means that the wifes income must be reported if the member has kledge of it. many women object to that. on the ground that it gives illusory ideas as to what wealth they haveyou k. that it means they are going to be overcharged by the hairdresser. or will be the subject of efforts to sell by stock salesmen. and so on. there is objection to that on the ground that it is e of anybodys business what their income is. if the husband has constructive interest. which is the language of the senate ethics bill on that particular subject. i will ask all my questions at once so they can be answered together. as to earned income. the only requirement is that the husband shall report who the wife works for and whether she earns $1.000 a year. that is the earned income provision. but then this requirement for reporting goes on to aher section. which is section 302 (e) through (i). and that calls for reporting the following: the identity and category of value of each item of real property held. directly or indirectly. which has a fair market value in excess of $1.000. that. again. is a matter of disclosing the wifes property. even if her husband has constructive interest. (2). the identity and category of value of each item of personal property having a value in excess of $1.000. i would have to disclose what she has in the way of jewelry. let us assume. (f). the identity and category of each-
i thank my colleagues. i shall  protract the discussion. i have desire to do so. the difference is this: in the present situation of a code of ethics. a member must report anything in which he has any interest. direct or indirect. senator ribicoff defined that very. very strictly. i have included in the record. so that definition could hold for the schmitt amendment. the whole record of the debate. it is epitomized in the words which are contained in the schmitt amendment: if the enhancement of the interest would substantially benefit the reporting individual. the difference between that and what the administration suggests is that whether or  we have any interest that is going to be enhanced. we still have to give the facts about our wifes income. who she works for. if she is in a profession. and what stock or other transactions. or real estate transactions. she has had. that is a very real difference because our wives may violently object to having her personal operations. or property. or purchases and sales disclosed. but if we accept the administrations position. that would have to be disclosed. so there is a real substantive difference and that is the thing i have been trying to rationalize out myself. that is really a close question. that is why i asked the question. "because she is married to you. should all of her personal transactions be disclosed even though you have interest in them whatever. of any character." i think i would have trouble whatever with the administrations suggestion insofar as it says that he or she derives and expects to derive benefit from such interests. and that such interests were  derived directly or indirectly from interests or income formally owned or controlled by the reporting individual. what troubles me. unless the wife is separated from her husband. granting he has interest whatever. he still must tell her story and she has got to be spread on the public record for what she has. what income she has had. what transactions she has had. just because she is the persons wife. that is why i got free time. because i would like to put this up to the managers. perhaps a proper distinction might be the following. that where the husband and wife file a joint return he is obliged to give all this information. but where the husband and wife file separate returns. then a constructive trust rule applies. unless he has an interest. he is  supposed to disclose her information.
. i would like to ask senator cranston a few questions about this matter. it troubles me deeply because it is a fact that arbitration is  yet mandatory. maybe it never will be in respect to labor disputes. also. it is a fact that we are still in a real twilight zone as to government employees and whether or  we are going beyond. that is. into codified law and make public employees limited in their labor activities so they may  strike. the courts will do that. they are enjoined where it deals with public health and safety. but we have  yet codified the law on this subject. this is in an appropriation bill. a codification of law in a twilight area. i do  agree with my colleagues that this involves the basic question as to whether we are going to compel compulsory arbitration on labor. as such.
excuse me. but it is  a labor bill. it is a peripheral bill and deals with a labor subject. i have read the letter of senator williams. chairman of the committee on which i am the ranking miity member. that is why i am on my feet in respect to this matter. moreover. i have a deep solicitude for the labor situation in our country. does the senator from california agree with senator williams. who says at page 66 of the committee report: the employees at the lawrence livermore laboratory are  classified as federal employees  as private sector employees  are they considered to be state employees under the laws of the state of california.
and then he goes on to say: the lawrence livermore laboratory employees work on a wholly owned federal production facility and are paid exclusively out of federal funds. they thus comprise a unique classification of employees who are  covered by any labor laws.
may i say to my colleague that i did  k about these letters.  about the controversy. [ do  pretend to what i do  k anything about. but i see egh in it to warrant consideration. certainly by me. and hopefully by the human resources committee. i am a senator. i have to vote yea or nay. but i can vote against this committee on this issue at this time. but king the processes around here. and with the assurance i have had from senator cranston. i believe. if we have reason to feel this is really something flagrant. that we can get to do something about it withstanding the passage of this bill.
the senator from idaho is an able labor lawyer. when i walked into the chamber. he alerted me to this. and he took it very seriously. i am  one given to hiding what i believe. so i have stated openly and frankly how i voted. why i voted. and what i voted. and what i believe we can and should do. i assure the senator. without any commitments. because they are  necessary. that this is a matter worthy of being looked into. and i will make it my responsibility to look into it.
i do  k of any discussion about it. i must be careful in saying that. because. naturally. i was  there every moment. apparently senator williams wrote a letter. which is in the committee report. in which he pretty much signed off on it. on the ground that it was a unique situation. senator hayakawa. senator hatch. and senator mcclure feel that it sets a very bad example. it is really  a precedent. it is  that big a deal. it involves several thousand employees. but it is an example of government arbitration in a government employee situation. this senator. because he is senior to all the democrats on the committee other than the chairman. realizes that that is a twilight zone. we have  done that as yet. naturally. they are using that as a reason why we should strike it out. my point is that i can go against the committee which is dealing with a situation requiring greater research. and so on. but i do think they raise a point which is important egh that we should take a hard look at it. if we see there is something really offensive happening. we will find wayswhether or  it is in conference hereto deal with it as a labor matter. senator cranston concurred in that. i just stated that i would stand with the committee and why. but that i would  let the matter end at that point. i did think we should take a hard look at it.
. the labor reform act of 1977 is hing more than an attempt to make the present law work. it corrects the most glaring procedural and remedial deficiencies under the national labor relations act. it does  change the rules. but it does embody vitally necessary administrative reforms. the responsible employer has need to feel threatened by this bill. only persons who seek to evade their responsibilities through delay and through bad faith will be affected by this bill. everyone has the right to due process. but  the right to frustrate the purposes of the act through interminable delay and evasion. i firmly believe that due process can and must be made consistent with the effective enforcement of our nations basic labor law.  is the time for the congress to insure that our national labor policy is working fairly and effectively. this bill is designed to do just that. and i urge its prompt enactment. by mr. riegle (for himself and
the other aspect of the provision contained here is that it is a presumption that may be rebutted by the secretary of labor with adequate evidence. that may be difficult to obtain. and as the senator ks autopsies require the consent of the family of the person who is going to be autopsied.
i thoroughly agree. first. the bill is exclusively targeted at lowincome youth and targeted at high unemployment areas of the country. second. it links education and work. which is really a breakthrough concept. third. it emphasizes and implements the concept of work experience. fourth. it makes room for experimental programs. it is really a breakthrough.
i ask unanimous consent that the following staff members of the committee on human resources be accorded the privilege of the floor during the consideration of s. 274: don zimmerman. steve paradise. peter turza. and mike forcey.
. i believe this joint resolution is worthy of the support of our colleagues. the human resources committee will expect to hold hearings to give this matter full consideration. i am hopeful that following this consideration. the committee and the senate will endorse this important opportunity for a national review of our policy in the arts.
. i ask unanimous consent that the following may be granted privilege of the floor during consideration of this bill: mike roush of senator bartletts staff. tim smith of the human resources committee staff. don zimmerman. john rother. of the human resources committee staff. and chris brewster of the staff of senator danforth.
. is that the figures that senator williams gave respecting the number of employees affected and the percentage of the "work force" relates  to the total work forcemillions in the work force are selfemployed or otherwise exempted from the fair labor standards actbut he was talking about the percentage of covered employees. that is. those who are actually affected by the fair labor standards act. and the percentage is. for 1978. an estimated 8.7 percent. as i have pointed out before. that indicates a relatively small relationship of the problem. but in numbers of human beings affected so very adversely. it is a very large portion of the problem we are dealing with here. so i hope we will reserve our arguments about youth for the youth differential or whatever else members wish to bring up about it. but will  plead that the whole wage base for millions unrelated to the youth problem should be the base. because we do have a youth problem.
to answer that. that is the standard of comparison. i will put the whole table in the record. it is table 5. ratio of minimum wage worker income and rates provided in s. 1871. with the poverty level income of a 4person family $5.977. and projected estimates for january 1. 1978january 1. 1983. the figure i have goes as follows: the poverty level is estimated on january 1. 1981. to be $7.072. and the $3.40 coverage will realize 95 percent for the kind of family which i have described. it will realize 95 percent for a farm family which i have described. and it will realize 111 percent for a farmworker. the farmworker is the ratio of farmworker minimum wage to poverty level income for farmers residing on farms. of course. we are very much an urban country. so this represents very much a miity of the population.
the letter is dated october 5. 1977. and he says as followsit is addressed to senator williams. the chairman of our committee: we are opposed to this section of h.r. 3744that is the house billwhich would establish procedures under which an employer or group of employers could apply for a waiver from the secretary of labor which would. in effect. permit the employment of children under 12 years of age in handharvest labor in agriculture on a piecerate basis. such legislation would reverse the trend of congressional enactments over the years to improve the protection of children. the unhealthful effects of child labor in agriculture argue for greater.  lesser. protection. modern agriculture is a highrisk industry. these risks are  limited to heat. sun. dust. and insects or the strains caused by stooping and lifting. children working in the fields are dangerously exposed to toxic chemicals. pesticides. and large powerdriven machinery. . we are going to deal with the chemicals in senator williams changes. that is. with the pesticides. we are  going to deal with the machinery. and i understand. . i conclude as follows: what i have  heard in this debate. and what i am waiting to hear. is why we must revive the specter of child labor which is so deeply rejected in the hearts of our country and in the hearts of its people. and is the result of so much trauma and despair in other days. i am  going to go through that with the senate. we all k it very well. what is the reason why we  have to lower the prohibition from 12 to 10 years of age. the amendment itself. by the way. is unlimited. it could be children of 4. 5. 6. or 7. but. be that as it may. senator williams has already suggested 10. and the author of the amendment has accepted that. so i will  even argue that point. but i would like to hear why we have to go from 12 to 10. what is the compelling reason  for further infringing this concept of discouraging and prohibiting child labor in the united states in this particular field.
. i like this amendment. and i am glad the senator has worked it out with the labor department. i like it because i think we need to encourage this kind of parttime employment by students.  everyone realizes how much of it there is. i understand there are almost 500.000 young workers who are so employed. i believe the senators amendment is a good one. it will minimize the paperwork involved. it is acceptable to me. and i hope it will be acceptable to senator
. the senator from new jersey. my colleague. partner. and friend. has pointed out the problem of substitution of youth for adults. i wish to point out the pertinency of that in a moment. and i intend to argue whether a youth differential will induce employers to hire youth. but. first. to finish senator williams excellent argument. the amendment which i  have had an opportunity to study will make it very easy for employers to cheat by the circular door proposition of taking in youths. laying them off in 6 months. and taking in more youths. because the penalties are based on a pattern or practice of carrying this on. a pattern or practice means you can do an awful lot before you are caught up in a pattern or practice. if you just keep one inch on this side of the law. you can keep that up for a very long time and do a lot of adults out of jobs. therefore. the administration of such a wide open proposition inevitably will result in emous abuse. we have the civil rights act which has pattern or practice provisions and we have found it extremely difficult. unless you make it a really big federal case. to restrain activities on the basis of pattern or practice.
it will be ed. too. that the amendment extends to many youths.  only youths who are unemployed but youths who are employed. it says only that this paragraph shall  apply to any youth employee who has been employed by the same employer for a period of at least 6 months or is currently employed by an employer at a rate of at least the minimum wage. the restrictive character of that is by means what we think it might be in terms of limiting the groups. but the important point which i wish to make. . we are really helped by a study which we have found. and which . ask unanimous consent that excerpts be printed in the record. entitled "adult disemployment effects of a youth minimum wage differential." prepared for the assistant secretary for planning. evaluation. and research of the labor department by california state university.
this study. . i really believe this youth differential idea is fallacious and illusory. and would be a disaster to the wage structure. i hope we will defeat all these amendments. what we really have to do is steel ourselves to targeting employment for youth under existing law. the youth employment act. which is in place and is an excellent law. worked out with the white house. which has $1.5 billion and needs $3.5 billion. then we will really be doing something about youth unemployment. if we do this. we will be burying our heads in the sand. and i hope these amendments. including this one. will be defeated.
. we have an amazing disparity between the stevenson amendment and the mcclure amendment. and it is very illustrative. under the mcclure amendment there was limitation whatever. and the hourly rate could have been anything. the senate roundly rejected that idea. i assume partially under the feeling that there should be some limitation. . the limitation in this one. 85 percent. is really de minimis. if the senate roundly rejected free bargaining between the teenager and the employer. that certainly had infinitely more chance than saving an employer 15 percent of $2.65. to assume an employer will hire a worker he otherwise would  hire because he was going to save 40 cents an hour is really out of the question considering what any one of us. whether we have been in business or . ks what it means to hire aher employee. i mean. 40 cents an hour is  the consideration which will dominate us one way or the other in that regard. so i just think this falls short of the mark much further even than the mcclure amendment. it will be inducement at all. all it does is break down the minimum wage level with  real result. and it will divert us from what we ought to do. which is to target teenage employment and training programs for teenage employment. which is really what this situation needs. we will fumble around for aher year or two waiting to see how this differential is going to work and. therefore. in my judgment. it is a very illadvised measure and i hope it is rejected.
 only to answer the question of the senator from oregon. this amendment says these penalties will apply if there is a pattern or practice of substituting these special wage employees for regular wage employees. cxxiii--2070part 26 we have had very rough experience with proof of pattern or practice. plenty of violations must take place before you can prove a pattern or practice. and the point made by the majority leader. which i think is the big. valid one here. is that e of these amendments. including senator domenicis amendment. provide for additional employment. if the employer does  have additional jobs. he may still substitute these lower wage employees for other employees he might hire at the full minimum. or more. that is why. in my opinion. it is proper to say that the enforcement problem in that respect is a very difficult one. and i join the senator from new jersey in emphasizing the fact that we have really. i think. completely explored this subject. and i think every senator ks how he feels.
but that can be done if you just make it six. what worries me about this other provision is that it can be any number. if he gives an exemption. and the problem with exemptions is. it means machinery and action of the labor department. and we are dealing with hundreds of thousands of applications. as the senator ks. there are 500.000 young people employed under this section. so my feeling is that i am with you. but i think you are taking us farther than i have any intention of going. if you just increase the four to six. it is fine with me.
. i propose to move to strike lines 5 through 7. inclusive on page 1. and lines 3 through 9. inclusive. on page 2. that would do what i think. as i understood it. the distinguished senators purpose was in making this amendment. to wit. to increase the number from four to six. but if the senator persists in his amendment. we should all understand what he is proposing to do. he is proposing to do  one thing. but three things. the one thing which i would thoroughly agree with. and that is why i rose to speaki hopefully thought this was going to be handled very expeditiouslywas to increase from four to six the number of fulltime students who could be employed at less than the minimum wage. at 85 percent. but the other two points which are covered by the amendment are. first. that the 85 percent is reduced to 74 percent. i do  k where that figure comes from. but that is it. 74 percent. the other point is that in addition to increasing the number from four to six. the secretary of labor may. by regulation or order. exempt as many as he wishes to. it could be 2 million. it is true. as the senator says. that that is in his discretion. but we all k that when you are dealing with such a numerous body of applicants. machinery has to be set up for the purpose of passing on exemptions. et cetera. and you are moving into a totally different ball game. we do  contemplate that in this particular section. we never did. under the fair labor standards act. and so i again appeal to my colleague. i would hope very much that he would take this amendment and limit it to the fundamental purpose which we understood he had. and then we can take it and go forward to other business.
 the first did  have the 75 percent. or whatever it was. stricken. the second point still does remain. to wit. we are opening up a totally new channel and bureau in the department of labor which has limit. it can go to any amount. the pressures upon the department of labor will naturally be very great. the department will have to set up machinery to attend to this. it does  seem that that is the fundamental thrust that we want to give the fair labor standards act. we are perfectly willing to increase from 4 to 6. which is a onethird increase. let us see how that works before we set up some totally new piece of machinery for some totally new purpose.
on the second part. . i hope very much the senate will reject it. it is an openended proposition for a subminimum wage for college students. generally speaking. in higher institutions. though it can be any fulltime students. it has limit. we have already taken six. in fact. the labor department today has a very major backlog of problems in dealing with this particular section of the law. they have emous investigating responsibilities to meet. it may interest members to k that the backlog of minimum wage and overtime complaints has  risen about 24 percent in the last year. it is up to about 21.000. this is a purely administrative problem. sure. it will be in the same department of labor. i do  say to that. but they have to have a separate staff. separate rules and regulations. and separate considerations of literally thousands of applications. if it is 4 or 6. there are 500.000 such youths employed. so right  there are 100.000 applications. if we go to six. we are again talking about thousands. the thing just does  add up in terms of this bill.
the senator from new new mexico ks what is going to happen here. there are hundreds of retail establishments. hundreds of colleges. does he think they are going to let the secretary of labor rest. the senator and i and all of us are going to be kking down his door. saying "we want for joe doaks in coopertown. new york. eight. 10. 12." whatever it is. this is a different question from the number. we have agreed to the number: six. this is a totally new program. that is what i say. if the senate wants to go in for a new openended program of this kind. that is what the senator from new mexico is asking us to do.
. i agree with senator williams. i think in fairness to the senate it should.be ed that this is an amendment to aher statute. the fair labor standards act.  the age discrimination in employment statute. if any member wished it. which i hope he would  because the idea of having a proper advisory committee for the handicapped is extremely desirable. an objection could be made on the basis of the amendment  being germane. i hope that member will do that. i favor this amendment. and unless there is such an objection. agree with my chairman to take it to conference.
. in light of the debate on the child labor provisions of the minimum wage bill . i think my colleagues will be interested in this discussion of the dangers to children of labor in agriculture authored by the national consumers league. i insert it so that citizens and appropriate local and state authorities may have ice of scientific and medical facts involved and take necessary precautionary actions. i ask unanimous consent that the text of this statement be printed in the record.
i thank my distinguished colleague. . i speak  so that we may carry over into this modified amendment the understanding with senator long and the finance committee respecting participation in the oversight of how this goes to the human resources committee. so that chairman williams and i may be able to so inform the committee. i gather that is agreeable to the senator from louisiana.
i referred to the participation by the human resources committee in the oversight responsibility in respect of how this particular experiment goes. as it is partially in our line and partially in the line of the finance committee.
i thank my colleague very much. the reason for my position is that it is to be administered by the community services administration. which falls under the oversight of the human resources committee. i express my indebtedness. as a cosponsor and as a representative of my state. which has so many poor. to senator weicker for his outstandingly fine service in thinking up this amendment and handling it with the taste and the conviction he has.
. for many years i have advocated the phased elimination of the social security earnings limitation. it has long been my belief that older americans who must work to support themselves should be able to do so without losing their social security benefits. the grave financial situation of the social security system. however. make this phasing question a decisive one. secretary califahas stated that the goldwater amendment which would remove the earnings limitation altogether would benefit a "privileged miityil.3 million of the nations 22 million retirees." the secretary has observed that if the retirement test were eliminated. more than half of the new benefits would go to people earning more than $10.000 a year. i realize that some have taken issue with secretary califa analysis. but i feel that it raises sufficient doubts about the effect of the goldwater amendment that the congress can go all the way at this time in eliminating the earnings limitation. the administration has also pointed out that the goldwater amendment will cost approximately $23 billion in the years from 198287. even though this amount may be offset somewhat by increased social security taxes (as well as income taxes) resulting from the continued employment of americans past age 65. the cost is still sufficiently large to deter us from moving to eliminate the whole earnings limitation at this time. the basic thrust of the social security bill under consideration is to restore the systems financial soundness. and we should  include an amendment which will interfere with this objective. it appears to me that the price tag for the goldwater amendment as matters stand  is too high. consequently. . i will support the position of the finance committee as modified by the church substitute. which is to raise the present $3.000 earnings limitation to $4.500 in 1978 and to $6.000 in 1979. after 1979. the $6.000 level would increase automatically as wage levels rise. i will also support the church amendment which will reduce the upper effective age for the earnings limitation from age 72 to age 70. this amendment will permit people 70 years of age and older to earn more than $6.000 in 1979 (if the committee bill is passed) without incurring a reduction in social security benefits. i believe this approach will help low income people who must work beyond age 65 without paying unreduced benefits to high income individuals who do  need such benefits.
title ii of the community employment development act is the special impact youth employment program. which is designed to test the feasibility of using direct wage subsidies in the private business sector. in a sheltered work atmosphere. as a way to improve job prospects for unemployed youth. some analysts. such as prof. lester thurow of mit. have urged congress to enact wage subsidy programs in order to facilitate the placement of young people in private sector employment. i have always been somewhat skeptical of these approaches. because i fear they would merely cause unemployment to be shifted around. from youths to adults. but i believe we have in title vii of the ecoic opportunity act. a unique opportunity to see what can be accomplished for youths who bear the highest burden of unemployment: the poor residents of the most disadvantaged areas. title vii authorizes the establishment of special community development corporations. which mobilize private capital ownership in our most severely disadvantaged urban and rural areas. by using federally funded equity capital to start. maintain and attract private business. cdcs. in my judgment. are in an excellent position to be the vital bridge to permanent private sector employment for hardcore unemployed and disadvantaged youths. especially miities. who reside in the povertystricken areas of our country. under this title. $10 million would be authorized to enable the 45odd cdcs to place and train disadvantaged young persons in their subsidiaries. cdcs would be permitted to use the funds to pay the wages of these youths since. while these companies technically are organized for profit. the initial seed money is federal. and a sheltered work atmosphere can be created. in my judgment. the potential afforded by the cdc approach has  been utilized adequately in this country. especially to deal with unemployment problems in disadvantaged areas. the special impact youth employment program i propose today would rectify this problem and give poor teenagers an opportunity to have employment in the private sector of our ecoy.
. for some time i have been calling for improved area targeting of our federal employment and training programs. i have maintained that urban and rural areas suffering from chronic structural unemployment are shortchanged by present distribution formulas. which sprinkle funds on the basis of total area unemployed. as opposed to severity of area unemployment. compounding this problem is the fact that funds for fiscal years 1977 and 1978 were distributed to areas on the basis of their highest 3 consecutive months of unemployment in 1976. this means that funds for 1977 and 1978 were distributed in may 1977 on the basis of some area unemployment rates of january. february. and march this would be appropriate if significant changes had occurred in area unemployment from 1976 to 1978. but there have been great improvements in some areas. the consequence of all this is clear: some areas have gotten far more funds then they deserve or can use. while other areas get far less. this point has at last been explored in a march 6 study by the general accounting office. "information on the buildup in public service jobs." requested by the senator from maine and the senator from oklahoma . the chairman and ranking miity member. respectively. of the senate budget committee. gao compared the situation in dallas. tex.. and in newark. n.j.. and found that while unemployment in dallas had dropped to 4.3 percent from january to march 1977. its allocation of ceta title vi funds was based on the 5.6 percent rate of january to march 1976. gao concludes that dallas gained $4.7 million in additional funds ($10.5 million instead of $5.8 million) by using the data reflecting the ecoy of 15 months earlier. it is surprise that as of september 30. 1977 the dallas prime sponsor was having great difficulty meeting its hiring goal. in contrast to the dallas situation. gao points out that newark officials estimated "they could create sufficient projects and jobs to spend double the funding they received." in my judgment the message in the gao study is clear. to wit: ceta funds must be distributed so as to rifle funds more sharply into those areas of our country suffering severe ecoic distress. we must calculate on the basis of an areas annual average unemployment. as opposed to the highest 3 months. and we must use reliable 1977 data. furthermore. our formula should take better account of the chronic and persistent problem of unemployment faced by some areas of our country.  give undue influence to what are really seasonal or regional cyclical pheena in an area. i intend in committee to offer amendments to the administrations ceta bill to insure that funds are allocated on the basis of reliable 1977 data and that a 12month average is used instead of the highest 3 consecutive months of 1977. also. the urban and rural areas of our country have sustained severe job losses in the past few years and suffer from a prolonged and deepseated problem of structural unemployment. hence they ought to have somewhat greater consideration under ceta than they have received to date. i trust we will be able to agree on a way better to relieve some of the disproportionate burden of unemployment that weighs so heavily on some areas of the united states.o
. last year i was joined by senator cranston in introducing an amendment to increase the appropriations for the action agency by $4.4 million. $3 million of that was to be earmarked for the development of three model programs in title i. part c of the domestic volunteer service act of 1973 as amended. to wit: the urban service corps. the fixed income counseling program. and the displaced homemakers program. the remaining $1.4 million was to have been for an increase in the vista stipend. the chairman of the laborhew appropriations subcommittee and the ranking miity member
. there are a number of other questions in this respect that i wish to go into . some employers are concerned that the 1978 amendments may increase costs for employee welfare benefit plans. such as life. health. and disability programs. the senate report es that some plans currently reduce coverage for older workers or increase the required employee contribution as workers advance in age. i want to emphasize that these amendments do  change present law regarding these practices. as the senate report states: existing principles of law. including the section 4(f) (2) bona fide. employee benefit plan exception. as modified by these amendments. would be the standard by which these practices will be evaluated. the purpose of section 4(f) (2) is to take account of the increased cost of providing certain benefits to older workers as compared to younger workers. welfare benefit levels for older workers may be reduced only to the extent necessary to achieve approximate equivalency in contributions for older and younger workers. thus a retirement. pension or insurance plan will be considered in compliance with the statute where the actual amount of payment made. or cost incurred in behalf of an older worker is equal to that made or incurred in behalf of a younger worker. even though the -older worker may thereby receivea lesser amount of pension or retirement benefits. or insurance coverage. this is consistent with the following statement i made during the ember 6. 1967 floor consideration of the original act: the amendment relating to . . . employee benefit plans is particularly significant: because of it an employer will  be compelled to afford older workers exactly the same pension. retirement. or insurance benefits as younger workers and thus employers will . because of the often extremely high cost of providing certain types of benefits to older workers. actually be discouraged from hiring older workers. at the same time. it should be clear that this amendment only relates to the observance of bona fide plans. such plan will help an employer if it is adopted merely as a subterfuge for discriminating against older workers. the department of labor intends to promulgate comprehensive regulations in order to provide guidance in this regard for sponsors of employee benefit plans. and the secretary is urged to act as soon as possible.
it may be that certain employee benefit plans will have to be amended in order to comply with the new -law. in light of the extensive amendments which most plans were required to make in order to comply with the employee retirement income security act of 1974 is it  our view that the department of labor and the internal revenue service should work closely together to assist these plans to the fullest extent possible in the making of necessary changes.
. i ask unanimous consent that a summary of the commissions 19 essential recommendations and a table prepared by interdepartmental workers compensation task force showing the level of state compliance with each recommendation be printed in the record of the conclusion of my remarks. if we in congress do  act to correct this tragic. and inhuman. situation we are failing in our responsibilities to american workers. we have built an ecoic system which is the envy of the world and we justly point with pride to the fact that american workers are better paid. better fed. and better housed than most other workers in the world. but we can point with pride to the way in which we treat the victims of occupational injuries and diseases. in far too many cases. in far too many states. they are deprived of the income benefits. medical care. and rehabilitation services which a decent workers compensation system should provide to them. but which the present system does . the present bill implements those recommendations of the commission which. in our view. are appropriate for enactment as federal standards. and also deals with some areas  covered by specific recommendations of the commission. it represents a further refinement of the legislative effort begun 4 years ago by senator williams and myself to draft federal legislation which will preserve the existing stateadministered workers compensation system and yet insure that all american workers would be treated decently and humanely when they are disabled or killed by a work related accident. in comparison to previous bills. namely. s. 2008 in the 93d congress. and s. 2018 in the 94th congress. todays bill emphasizes quantitative standards and deemphasizes any possible administrative interference by the federal government in the state systems. it also avoids some of the constitutional issues which were raised in connection with the enforcement scheme embodied in s. 2018. which provided that the federal minimum standards would automatically be deemed to be part of state law. it reflects extensive consultation by the senate labor subcommittee staff with a variety of persons and interest groups who have an interest in the improvement of our state workers compensation laws and the implementation of the national commissions recommendations.
. inent of what words mean. they have read this legislation. they should k very well that it is designed primarily to protect the rights of working americans already spelled out in the national labor relations act. and certainly. they should be aware that it is threat to our ecoic system. yet. senators and the public have been besieged with warnings that this is "the labor bosses bill." that it will lead to what they call "pushbutton unionism" for the aggrandizement of "powerhungry union professionals."
. labor bosses. labor racketeers. and labor barons make nice whipping boys. it is just as good to talk about industrial bosses and industrial barons and industrial despots. there have been just as many crooks in either camp. we should  permit this to obscure from our vision and from our sense of perspective the importance to the more than 93 million americans who work for a living of the standards which have been set by collective bargaining in this country. in terms of their working lives and future. their security on the job. and their security in old age. for those reasons. i hope very much that we will get off what is ancient history and is  going to be decided in this billto wit. trade unionismand get down to the propriety and the efficacy of the measures we seek in this bill. i deeply believe that in that way we can fashion a bill which will  deserve the tremendous dedication which seems to be voiced in order to filibuster it to death. why. it is  worthy of it. actually. except that one may think that by upsetting this bill you are going to upset the whole labor movement of the united states. gentlemen. you will . you k it as well as i do. we will take weeks and weeks of the senates time in an absolutely vain pursuit. i k how people feel. and i respect it. they have every right to their opinions. as i have to mine. but i hope we will think it over in the days ahead. as to what this bill really amounts to. it is far from the dread threat it is pictured to be. i hope that. rather. we will devote ourselves to fashioning a remedy for what are some obvious evils which have crept into the system. in fairness to the working people of the united states.
i want the senator from nebraska to go ahead. i will be very interested. i say to my colleague. when a bill comes before us. already reported by the human resources committee. to deal with the problems of youth employment as we have already in the youth employment bill. i hope that in the interimi think it is a legitimate hope--senator wallop will study very carefully the bill on ceta. the comprehensive employment and training act. which has just come out of our committee. i do  k how the senator voted or what he did about the previous youth employment bill. which put up $1.5 billion for youth employment. for 1 year. i hope the senator will study those things carefully. i think he would be a marvelous recruit to join in the struggle to create jobs for youth. one last thing i hope the senator will think over. and that is that there are 93 million people in our country who are gainfully employed. of whom. in round figures. approximately 83 million are  in public employment or are  unemployed. there are 6 million unemployed. does he  think. in all fairness. that if we see a deep inequity and injustice to the 83 million employed. the senate should take a little time to discuss and consider that. i say to my colleague that i hope he will assimilate his attitude toward this bill with his attitude toward tax bills and many other bills in which. i have little doubt. he has said and will say. ". lets stick to the particular problem. lets  roam all over the lot and try to reform everything." . i think this also is very important: i am the first one to sayi have said it time and again already in this debate. and i will say it time and againthat there are as many rascals in labor as in business. but we should be just as chary in speaking of labor as we are in speaking of business. i feel that way. and i act that way. and i have done so in all the years i have been in this chamber. one ks better than i the sincerity and dedication to our country and its best values of these four senators who are in the chamber: senator wallop. senator hatch. senator curtis. and senator hansen. i assure them that i am listening very. very carefully. but i do hope that. as they wish us to consider everything they say. they also will consider everything we say.
. that is a splendid statement. and i will say why. the assumptions are always by the opponents on a worst case theorythat the bill will pass exactly as it passed the house or. if it does . we will go to conference and we will collapse. i would like to join the senator in saying this. i have been hearing it in the house so long. about many other measures. whether it was the civil rights act of 1964 or other antidiscrimination measures and other labor measures. that by the time the act passes. and they say the same things about this as they began to say in 1945 about the first ivesquinn bill. which had irving ives name on it. my colleague in the senate when i arrived here. respecting discrimination in employment on grounds of color. and the same about discrimination on grounds of sexexactly the same predictions were made and some years later were hailed as a great landmark of human freedom. when this bill emerges from conference and finally becomes law. i join the senator from wisconsin in making exactly the same prediction. people will live with this. and they will find the things that cause them concern will  happen. i hope many members will realize that this is a process.  a theory. and that is what will emerge. the support of the senator from wisconsin of this bill is characteristic of him and most admirable.
the senator has been kind egh to mention me. yes. we have had illegal strikes and violations of injunctions against those strikes. we have had people go to jail rather than comply. after all. this is our democracy and we pay a price. we can cut off their right hand. the fact is that the same is true of martin luther king who went to jail constantly and cheerfully. he came all ready to go. and there are many other people. we administer punishment to unions just as we do to everyone else. we can submit a catalog of fines and damage suits in which unions have suffered. as a matter of fact. there are cases in which individual union members have been found liable for part of the damages assessed against unions. i really do  think the argument that there are remedies against unions is a valid one. in this particular case. because i think there is an evil. and i really have tried to be objectivei am  a union lawyer or union protagonistthe evil has been the misuse of judicial processes which we are really trying to deal with. if the senator wants us to deal with the whole amendment of the tafthartley and landrumgriffin we are  doing it in this bill. and people in addition to myself have been violently opposed to it. as the senator ks. the unions thought they had the president on their hip for something. the arguments respecting small business. the arguments respecting time lags and equal access. i am listening to very carefully. with senator williams. i hope very much to be able to shape a bill which. on the whole. will be generally agreeable. the senator may  himself be convinced. but i really hope we can find some way out of these issues which have been created. which i think are legitimate. without invoking a feeling that we are calloused to other wrongs and other difficulties. to ask us in this bill to compensate for what we are doing by some new law resuecting unions will only mean that we will  be able to do what we think ought to be done in the injustice of the laws delay. in the misuse of the law. we will  be able to attain what the senator wishes to attain either. i do  blame the senator. i understand perfectly his position. to go against the evils which exist. for my part. my hope is to confine this bill to its limited purpose to deal with the excesses of law and  to get into a reform of the labor laws. which i think is essentially the senators point.
i think the opponents of this bill really claim too much. if the senator will forgive me. i think the senator ks me well egh to k that i am  blindly partisan in this. i think they claim that everything about the record of the nlrb will  be undone. the fact is that the nlrb rulings on the whole have been considered fair by employers. they have found time and again unfair labor practices by labor and have exculpated time and again management from unfair labor practices. using the word "unfair" is really a very woolly standard. we use it as a rubric. as a matter of fact. the rules of law are very clear about good faith bargaining. it is  all that up in the air and all that woolly. good faith bargaining is defined in cases and as adjudicated by courts. that is a businessmans risk for everybodylitigation. that is  a reason why we should deny a remedy where a remedy is deserved. as i say. i am  trying to tempt the senator into some forensic argument. but i do submit those arguments to the senator as standing side by side with the arguments he made.
let me say to the senator that when the senator says "guilty of an unfair labor practice." all it means is that the employer refused to bargain. i wish to make this legislative record on the part of the proponents of the bill: an employer is  obligated to agree. collective bargaining does  compel agreement. so long as he bargains in good faith. there is penalty against him whatever. second. the penalty is a percentage penalty. so it would be based on the standard of wages or salaries involved in the case. so it seems to me that those factual details are dealt with fairly. but as i say. we are trying to consider a better approach to the index. one thing the senator has said which i would beg him to consider carefully: that is that if we prescribe a remedy where there is remedy. is it fair. then. to say "because you have prescribed the remedy. it will encourage unions to make complaints". that is really the philosophic question which we face. there is remedy . we should give a remedy if we really mean what we say. therefore. are we to say to ourselves. " we will  give a remedy because if we do it will encourage people to complain".
. i listened to our colleague from illis very carefully. and what i missed i will read carefully. as usual. he has been very clear and thoughtful. and has very clearly expressed his position. i think it is fair to say for myself that i. too believe government should provide the methodology. which is what i have always contended. in these labormanagement matters. and should  load it either way. that said. i think the senator has. directly as well as by implication. put his finger on a very critical element of this debate. every businessman. and i think it is true of labor as well. wants finality: "tell me the rules. and i will work within them." so that is our first consideration. we have to be precise egh so that we do  have these long dragouts. that has been the problem with the stevens case. many people feel that stevens has ruined the whole labor climate for them. and brought on this bill. i do  blame them. they felt that was what they ought to do. but labor feels it has been victimized. my second point is that there are members in this chamber. and i love them dearly. many close friends of mine. who will  have this bill under any circumstances. on matter what we do to it. they are just against it. it is basic and congenital. in their view. then there are some who feel we dealt with it as best we could in committee. and they are for it. that goes for senator williams and myself. then there are those who feel. like the senator from illis. that they want something done. that they want finality. and that they are ready to try to refashion the rest of it. whatever they feel is wrong with it. on the senate floor. to that the senator from illis is making a real contribution and i promise him. as i did before. even when we were marking up the bill. my loyal efforts to inventory. examine. work with. and use whatever expertise i have to try to fashion a remedy for those two groups. those who want the bill and those who are willing to do whatever they can to command support here. this is by means in derogation to those who feel we should  legislate. that we ought to let matters stand as they are. though that view i can support.
as a practical matter. the amendment was designed to deal with narrowing the universe which was. in controversy. our feeling was that many small businessmen were alarmed and induced to protest to their senators. et cetera. on the ground that. well. the national labor relations board can always change its mind. so by incorporating this particular amendment in the law. making it statutory and mandatory. we feel that we have taken out 75 percent. certainly. of the people who felt that they had a gripe and a complaint. and a right to express it. we feel that is narrowing the area of controversy. and i might tell the senator this: i hope very much that the opposition will express itself on such an amendment. i think the yeas and nays are fine. i think we ought to have a yea and nay vote on this amendment and the ford amendment. to which it is attached. i think we will then be dealing with what should be legitimate opposition. i personally think to create an illusory opposition simply fortifies the position of people like myself that the small businessman is being used rather than being served.
you k. i am beginning to see in this debate a pattern emerging. there are certain membersand bless them. they have every right to have their views and their sinceritywho are  going to be reached by anything we do. any changes we make. anything we find. any efforts to deal with the conditions because of which they feel this bill should  be passed. but there are. in my judgment. egh members to effect cloture and to decisively pass this bill. who really want to solve the problem. so i do  believe we need to be unduly unhappy if we can help those members who are simply against union organization and will  have it. i believe we can look forward to the cooperation of the members of this body who believe this country has to have trade organizations in the labor union field. just as we have trade organizations in the business field. that is what i am projecting and making every effort toward. in partnership and company with the principal manager of the bill. the distinguished senator from new jersey.
. i am sorry that i did  get here in time. as i was crossexamining a witness in the new york city hearings. the colloquy with the senator. which senator williams and i have discussed. is correct and represents my view as to the proper interpretation of the bill before us in respect of the summary judgment procedure before a designated panel of the national labor relations board. i believe that the board should and will continue its practice of clearing panel decisions with the participating members in order to insure that the decision represents the thinking of the full board.
i respectfully submit that the time parameters are . in my judgment. fair to give adequate ice. and that a businessman has one but himself to blame if. after he has had such very adequate ice. he is surprised. . with the tafthartley act. this new criminal code. the erisa of which i. with senator williams. am one of the authors. the hobbs act. which deals with plant and machinery damage. the income tax codeindeed. where most of these convictions takes placeit seems to me that we are really railing against the moon to blame the absence of law for racketeering and other crimes in the labor field when. as a matter of fact. there is more than adequate law to cover. as we k in all matters of this society. we have to deal with the problem of stricter enforcement every day. but that does  represent any deficiency in the law.
. again with love and respect for my friend. we are talking about renfrets survey. i did  see anything in renfrets survey that counted in slowdowns. featherbedding. and the dragging of feet and the fact that the union counseled the worker that he should  work so hard.  at all. renfret was calculating that survey strictly and only upon the differential in wages. i am one of the prime advocates of doing things in this country to repair the lack of progress in productivity in our country. i deeply believe that it is the morale of the worker which is involved here and in a very serious way. and in my judgment the frustrations and delays under the laws that exist today which we are trying to correct are a material part in the erosion of that morale.
 new york city is up against the gun here. we have june 30 coming up with legislation. we have a report due from the committee. as i recall it. though i have just looked at the calendar and i do  k whether this is just a promise of the leader or an agreed upon consent. we are supposed to have a treaty up right after this labor bill. may i ask the chair. is there unanimous consent that the treaty follows this.
. i beg every member. before we finally act. to read pages 5 and 6 of the committee report which is a case in point of an individual worker fired for union activity who is simply out. he is put on the trash heap. there is unemployment compensation. he is cut off from welfare. ostracized in his town. and that is the end of it as a human being. that is why i think it is our duty to legislate in this field. the fact is that this system of collective bargaining found a way in which to be frustrated. just as we have been frustrated by hundreds of amendments after cloture. we are trying to find a way out of that impasse. i deeply believe that the method suggested is the right way and that we can contrive what will be fair for the situation and the people of the country and fair to the senate. therefore. i hope very much that we either have cloture. as the majority leader has called for. or that we have the appropriate reference. which is the subject of his motion.
the fact is that people fired for trade union activity can still remain fired for years without redress. and the people who want to organize a union can be frustrated matter how overwhelming the vote.  for months but for years. i promise the senator that we will bring back a lean and hard bill expressly dealing with the evils. we tried to fashion it on the floor. we could  do it. but we will fashion it in the committee.
. on may 15. the human resources committee reported s. 1753 to the senate. this measure deals with federal elementary and secondary education programs. s. 1753 contains major provisions. which i authored. to expand and improve the federal role in the education of our gifted and talented children. these children represent one of our nations most precious resources. the new york daily news has published. in the past months. a series of articles. written by merrie spaeth. on the needs of these children. their potential. and some of the problems which prevent them from reaching that potential. i am grateful to ms. spaeth for her indepth research and skillful reporting of the factors affecting our gifted children. as i believe that my colleagues will find these stories most instructive as they consider s. 1753. i ask that these articles be printed in the record. the stories follow:
the board also has significant authority over the city and its employees and the newly enacted state law which continues the existence of the board contains a special provision. which was a critical issue in the recent wage negotiations between the unions and the city. so it has very widespread power and uses it.
i appreciate the good will of the senator. he and i have worked together on too many things that i would challenge him. but when we look at the overall condition of my state over a period of years. this has resulted in really devastating effects when reducing the defense presence in the state. which really results in discrimination against new york. i am  charging evil motives to anyone. to refer to this watervliet matter that is about the only thing that can be done for new york in terms of perhaps a little generosity in this reconstruction. i was calling attention to the fact that we k very well if the money is available the construction could be accelerated. with new york still about 2 or 3 percentage points behind the nation in terms of its unemployment picture. where you could do it we felt it should be done. in the conference between the senate and the house we will try to submit additional data to our senate conferees and. hopefully. there may be a different result. fort drum was the big thing which new york might get to somewhat redress the circumstances. but we have run into so many discouragements. including. for example. the rumor which was aboutand rumors are very important up here as my colleague ksthat this was going to be decided within a day. that it would be decided by . then we hear  it is  going to be decided by . but it may be decided sometime later in the summer. when we get the inhospitable feeling which : described. naturally we become very deeply concerned about the way in which the decision will be made and how it will go. so i raised these points hoping that they may have some therapeutic effect upon the way in which my state will be regarded. after all. if you are aggrieved and if you do  holler. ody is going to hear you. i thank my colleague very much.
all agree. and we k in new york we have 20 percent unemployment in the building trades. and in most other parts of the country it is double the mal unemployment. there is dearth whatever of raw materials in respect of housing. for all those reasons. . because it is desirable social policy. because it adds to the real wealth of the country. including the tranquility of its people. and because it serves an urgently necessary human need. i urge rejection of the amendment.
. i am also pleased to e my firm support of s. 2384. essential legislation which provides for an improved pension program for disabled and older veterans in need of assistance and for the surviving families of wartime veterans. specifically. s. 2384 will provide for an adequate income standard so that eligible veterans and survivors receive assistance which meets their needs. this will insure that veterans and survivors in need of assistance will  have to turn to welfare. in addition. the bill will guarantee regular annual increases in pension benefits. and insure that these increases are commensurate and simultaneous with those in federal social security and other retirement programs. finally. the bill provides for a new program of dependency and indemnity compensation for needy surviving parents of veterans who died of disabilities connected with their military service. through these amendments to the veterans pension program. we can significantly improve our policy of meeting our special obligation to those who have contributed so greatly to the defense of our nation.
. as ranking majority member of the human resources committee and its subcommittee on employment. poverty. and migratory labor. i join our subcommittee chairman. the senator from wisconsin . our committee chairman the senator from new jersey . the senator from massachusetts
. i join my colleague in thanking senator ribicoff for this initiative. i adopt what my colleague said about new york. i wish to add two points. one. the reason i joined in this amendment. i say to senator long. and i k he is deeply interested. was that a burning of a bridge should  be a substitute for a legitimate abandonment for cause. that is what this is really all about. that bridge burned down in 1974. that is 4 years ago.  conrail wants to use that as a reason for abandoning it without any real justification and proof for the fact that that route should be abandoned. four years have  made all that difference. our state is suffering worse than ever. and that midhudson area is suffering among the worst of any parts of the state. so when they estimate. and i am sure they gave the senator the same figure they gave me. that their study shows that the investment will produce a return of. i think it was 1.6 percent. what they do  estimate is the effect upon the ecoy of that area and. therefore. the mutual interests. one. in improving the traffic and. two. in doing something for the ecoy of an area of my state which is one of the worst hit by unemployment and the shift of ecoic activity. it is for those reasonsand i did investigate the thing carefully and listened to the other sidethat i join senator rrmicoff and thank him for this initiative.
i should like to address myself to a question. and the senator will interrupt me if i am dealing with a subject which he has in mind. i should like to address myself to this question of the compensation for retirees income as a deduction from unemployment compensation. does the senators amendment affect that.
. the bill which senator long has described extends the reporting deadline for the national commission on utnemployment compensation until march 15. 1980. as he has properly stated. the work of the commission is criticall: important and the extension of time is necessary to permit the commission to develop a thorough and welldocumented report. the problem which arises is the fact that when the commission was created. it was authorized to study a provision of the federal unemployment insurance law which reduces unemployment benefits to persons who receive pensions or other retirement benefits by the amount of such benefits they receive. dollar for dollar. because we were unsure of the impact that new provision might have on older workers. the 1976 amendments which created the national commission. delayed the effective date of the retirement setoff until september 30. 1979 to allow the national commission to study the impact of the provision before it went into effect. earlier this year. congress delayed the reporting date for the commission from january 1. to july 1. 1979. at that time the effective date of the retirees setoff was similarly postponed until march 30. 1980. i am concerned that the finance committees failure to include a further delay in the effective date of the retiree setoff provisionthis new extension and the failure to provide for a delay of the retiree setoff provision will result in the congress having only 15 days after the commission makes its final report and the time when the setoff provision will become effective. because it is  further delayed here. as it was in the previous delay of the commissions report. the other body did  do that. the other body did include a comparable delay of the retiree setoff in order to accord with what was done before when this report was similarly delayed. the house of representaties. in considering this bill. h.r. 12232. included a provision further delaying implementation of the retiree setoff. many workers of retirement age are compelled to find jobs because of the inadequacy of their pension benefits. for these workers. the wages they receive are necessary to provide themselves and their families with food. clothing. and shelter. further. we k that older workers often have a far more difficult time finding new employment than younger workers. the commission is charged with making a careful study of the impact of this amendment on older workers. congress should permit itself adequate time to act on the commissions recommendations. i had intended to offer an amendment restoring the house provision delaying implementation of the retirees setoff. i refrain from doing so because i am aware that such an amendment could raise parliamentary questions under the budget act in the senate. accordingly. i hope very much that the senate conferees will consider sympathetically the house provision retaining the linkage between the commissions reporting date and the effective date of the retiree setoff in view of the humimnitarian and social as well as ecoic considerations which make this. it seems to me. a very just point. exactly as it was the last time that we extended the time for the commissions report. as i k senator longs own attitude toward this matter. i hope. if he has any comment. that he could favor us with it.
. just before we vote. while members are here. i wish to e that this has been an absolutely monumental bill. it represents an unbelievable amount of labor and expertise by the senate staff. i think while members are here. we should give due credit to our staffs: on my own part. gregory fusco. kristi hanson. and david morse. on the part of senator pell. jean frohlicher. richard jerue. for senator williams. frank zweig. for senator stafford. sven groennings. for senator schweiker. polly gault. for senator hatch. ron docksai. for senator chafee. nancy barrow. and for senator hayakawa. john backer. i wish to again express my great appreciation and deep feeling of gratification for being able to work so constructively with senator pell and with the majority and miity leaders. and to thank senator stafford for the unusual cooperation he showed in respect to the management of this.
. i ask the managers of the bill. because they have been handling the bill. and i am a member of the same committeethese are labor amendmentswhat is their rationale for accepting each amendment. and have they consulted with the administration and is the administration willing.
. the purpose of my taking the floor is because i am the ranking miity member of the labor committee. a committee of which senator hatch is a member. and his views on union organization are as well kn as mine.
