 declared that our foreign assistance priority must be in the war against hunger. after aid reorganized itself to implement that priority. the secretary of agriculture annced that u.s. farmers would be required to produce 13 percent less of that vital foodstuff. wheat. this decision will increase the budgetary requirement for diversion payments. it will decrease the total world food supply. it will make it difficult for the united states to convince other developed countries that we are serious egh about our effort to prevent famine to warrant their own contribution. it will appear to the developing world that we are reneging on our pledge to help feed its hungry people before the battle was even begun. we could find other instances of uninspired management and burdensome bureaucracy. my purpose here today is  to assign blame. but to stimulate a review of our organizational capacity to deal with the world. ideally this review should come. on a continuing basis from the executive branch itself. it is clear that we can have little confidence that it will be forthcoming. i was disturbed earlier this year that the department of state has abolished its center for international systems research. this center was developing some very exciting proposals for the conduct of foreign policy in the years to come. in particular. it was exploring the possibility of using the management technique of systems analysis. so successful in defense and space. in the conduct of foreign policy. on may 2 i expressed my concern about the abolition of the center in a letter to under secretary of state. nicholas katzenbach. i said in part: it . . . seems to me quite important to seek understanding of the departments organizational problems and new ways of ordering the complex data that must inform our judgments about the future of world society. in particular. i think it important that departmental personnel be exposed to these new analytical techniques. the old ways of looking at the world are becoming rapidly obsolete. in systems techniques. we have a new approach . . . that is well worth exploring to the fullest. i have  yet had a substantive response to my letter. since the job is  being done within. we must turn it over to the type of commission which has proven so helpful in the past. the foreign policy agenda for a new commission is twofold: to assess the utilization and effect of earlier reorganization recommendations by the hoover commissions and the jackson subcommittee. and to explore new techniques of data analysis and personnel and financial management that will enable us to play a fully effective and efficient role as the preeminent power in the world todayand tomorrow.
then i take it to be the opinion of the senator that before we take any steps to reduce the size of our army we should exhaust every possible effort to increase production on the farm and in the industries of america.
s farm message was submitted to the senate. i stated on the floor that i believed expanded authority for federal aid for drought relief was urgently needed and that it was regrettable that the message did  include reference to improved programs in this area. this view was also contained in the miity views of the recent report of the joint ecoic committee of the congress. vital new weapons have recently been proposed by legislation introduced on april 13 by the distinguished senior senator from vermont [mr. aixzi]. together with 93 senators. of whom i am happy to be one. to expand the direct and insured loan program by the secretary of agriculture to public and profit agencies for development of rural water systems and to make grants for facilities for distribution of water in these areas. the bill expands the eligibility of rural communities to cities and towns having a population in excess of 5.000 inhabitants. the increase from $200 to $450 million for the insured loan program for rural water systems is vitally necessary in view of the present $80 million backlog under this program. this legislation is directed at overcoming one of the greatest handicaps to rural developmentthe shortage of water for thousands of communities for industrial and residential growth. it is important legislation and its prompt passage would contribute substantially to solving critical problems of drought in many rural areas. so is s. 24.  pending on the senate calendar. legislation to expand and accelerate the saline water conversion program of the department of interior. additional vigorous efforts are needed to solve problems of drought in both urban and rural areas by providing development of new supplies of water and converting previously unusable supplies of water for human consumption and industrial uses. this includes development of our existing water resources. rivers. and lakes. accelerated antiwater pollution resources and expanded efforts to uncover new sources such as by desalinization of salt water and use of artificial rain. i urge the department of agriculture and the weather bureau in the department of commerce responsible for the latter program to double its efforts in finding new ways to win the war on drought. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record recent statements in the new york times and herald tribune of june 13 and 14.
. even these international conflicts do  constitute the only danger. the regimes of the relatively moderate king faisal in saudi arabia and king hussein in jordan could come to a violent end at any moment. husseins autobiography. "uneasy lies the head." relates ingenious plots of his lifemost of them allegedly inspired by the united arab republicand he ackledges the slender shadow that separates him from the same end by assassination which met his grandfather. the late king abdullah. we recall what happened in iraq in 1958. when the prowestern nuri saidfaisal regime. which had been extensively equipped in weaponry by the united states. was overthrown in a bloody revolt which saw that unhappy nation withdraw from the dullesorganized baghdad pacta withdrawal which presaged the pacts downfalland turn away from the united states to the u.s.s.r. in that area. u.s. news & world report. in a january 24 article on the middle east arms buildup. concluded succinctly: next time war flares up in the middle east. it may be with a bigger bang. and that "bigger bang" would be a direct result of the soviet arms boom and the use by the u.s.s.r. of the middle east as a dumping ground for its surplus weapons. we have been forced to react. so this is light matter. the recent anncement that the united states is  supplying modern tanks directly to israel. rather than finding indirect means to maintain the arms balance. is an encouraging sign. it indicates that we  openly ackledge what in effect is generally kn in the middle east--that the united states will  stand idly by while the arab nations obtain a preponderance of arms to carry out their oftenrepeated pledge to wipe out israellet alone to try to wipe out each other. on the one hand. the united states exhibits a real and sincere concern for raising the living standards of impoverished peoples in the middle east. on the other. however. we look on as the governments of povertyridden arab lands divert essential resources to a spiraling military buildup. in addition. through our aid policiessuch as the recent $55 million surplus food contract with the united arab republicwe make possible further purchases of soviet arms. because nasser does  have to use his cotton crop to buy food. he uses it to add to his arms. at this point in history when the united states talks seriously of disarmament agreements with the soviet union. it seems incongruous that our government should stand by as arms proliferate in the middle east. an area where international tensions are at a dangerous egh pitch even without the buildup of military hardware. the soviet union. the united states. and 17 other nations. east and west. are currently engaged in disarmament talks in geneva. talks which the united states and the u.s.s.r. both have indicated must  be disturbed by events in vietnam. yet. the middle east arms race continues to escalate. the standards of geneva should be applied to the middle east. i repeat. the united states should invite the soviet union to confer with respect to having a cessation to the arms buildup to which they are parties in the middle east.
