i wanted to inquire as to the possibilities resulting from a work cessation in the areas to which the senator from missouri has just referred. which were the ones mentioned by the senator from new york. btit the senator from new york would like to ask the able senator from missouri whether he feels that a work stoppage in the coal industry. for a period of several weeks. would in any wayfor instance. at the present timeimperil the national health and safety.
 truman. almost a million miners have been exposed to a daily dose of coal dust. and a shocking 5.500 miners have been killed. these facts do  lend a great deal of credibility to recommend the virtues of the old bill. at present. about 100.000 miners of the 150.000 who work the mines today suffer from black lung disease. with over half of these disabled from the disease. dust is in their skin and their eyes and their mouths. they suck it into their lungs every day of their lives and cough and strain to breathe. this is a manmade disease that can and must be prevented. to ige it is to ige the  1 occupational health problem in u.s. coal mining. which has been iged for far too long already. for these reasons. i strongly support the sections of this bill which provide for payments to miners who are disabled from pneumoconiosis and to the widows of miners who suffered from the disease at the time of their death. these provisions are a limited response in the form of emergency assistance. included because of the failure of the states to assume compensation responsibilities. clearly. the hazards of the trade we are discussing are such that this bill should include the strongest possible health and safety provisions. this bill does include numerous provisions with these aims in mind. such as those establishing a mandatory dust standard of 3 milligrams per cubic meter. requiring medical examinations. calling for frequent inspections and investigations by qualified persons and providing realistic penalties for failure to comply. there is one section of the bill. however. which endangers its effectiveness by entrusting what could become a veto power to a fivemember board of review. these five men could nullify orders by federal inspectors for the closing of unsafe mines. and they could rescind penalties assessed for violations of safety rules. these powers seriously weaken the remainder of the bill and indeed seem to challenge its very purposes. i strongly support the abolition of this board. and hope that my colleagues will consider the welfare of thousands of miners over the power of five men. finally. in order to make this bill the strongest and most effective one possible. i support amendments to do the following: to measure coal dust during one shift. instead of averaging the measurement over several shifts as the bill  provides. if the averaging method is used. a "cleanup" shift can be rushed in to bring the average down. to require the secretary of health. education. and welfare to set medically acceptable coal dust standards which protect the health of the miner. instead of being forced to raise coal dust standards to meet pressure from considerations other than health. to require that electrical equipment in gassy mines be made safe and sparkproof in 15 months instead of the 28 months after enactment of this bill. and to eliminate the openended waiver which is presently provided in the bill for all gassy mines. large and small. and to protect miners against losing their jobs or being discriminated against for reporting health and safety violations. . i urge that the coal mine health and safety bill be passed with these amendments. so that in the future we will k such disaster as that of farmington. w. va.. in ember of 1968 where mine  9 became the tomb for 78 men for whom rescue operation could succeed.
. i am submitting a sense of the senate resolution to designate the third saturday in june of every year as "national rivers day." rivers touch each and every one of our lives. every state and nearly every community in the united states has a river or stream going through it. because every american has access to rivers and streams. what we do and how we live has a profound impact on the quality of the nations rivers. the. three million miles of rivers and streams that travel through the united states have played a fundamental role in our culture and our heritage. indeed. the health of americas rivers inextricably linked to our health as -a nation. our rivers contribute to commerce. food production and public recreation. and they enhance our wellbeing. rivers also support fish. waterfowl. and other wildlife that need clean water to survive in .their habitat. the settlers in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries were awed by our majestic rivers. curious mixtures of pristine and rugged beauty. since colonial times. americas rivers have promoted our ecoic and social growth. as an energy source to spur industrialization and as a water supply resource. regrettably. in the late 1960s. although america had grown to be the most powerful industrial nation in the world. we had failed to protect the very resources that were responsible for our success. the hudson river was a dumping ground for fuel and other industrial waste. the cuyahoga river in cleveland became so polluted that it caught fire. these terrible events prompted the call to reverse the trend and to clean up the nations rivers and other waters. .today. the cleanup of our rivers and streams has led to the ecoic revitalization of urban centers. neighborhoods. and towns all over america. from boston to chicago to washington. d.c.. americans are cleaning up their rivers and using them for recreation. boating. tourism and leisure. americas rivers continue to serve as transportation links supporting commerce and industry. their greatest contribution to the u.s. ecoy. however. is the 430 billion dollars generated annually from the tourists that visit our rivers. and more than 46 million international tourists visit our rivers each year. the tide has turned significantly from the late 1960s and early 1970s. but we must continue to encourage ongoing protection and promotion of the nations rivers. designating the third saturday in june of each year as "national rivers day" will inspire all americans to get involved in the ongoing protection of our precious rivers and streams. i urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important measure.*
. i am submitting a sense of the senate resolution to designate the third saturday in june of every year as "national rivers day." rivers touch each and every one of our lives. every state and nearly every community in the united states has a river or stream going through it. because every american has access to rivers and streams. what we do and how we live has a profound impact on the quality of the nations rivers. the. three million miles of rivers and streams that travel through the united states have played a fundamental role in our culture and our heritage. indeed. the health of americas rivers inextricably linked to our health as -a nation. our rivers contribute to commerce. food production and public recreation. and they enhance our wellbeing. rivers also support fish. waterfowl. and other wildlife that need clean water to survive in .their habitat. the settlers in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries were awed by our majestic rivers. curious mixtures of pristine and rugged beauty. since colonial times. americas rivers have promoted our ecoic and social growth. as an energy source to spur industrialization and as a water supply resource. regrettably. in the late 1960s. although america had grown to be the most powerful industrial nation in the world. we had failed to protect the very resources that were responsible for our success. the hudson river was a dumping ground for fuel and other industrial waste. the cuyahoga river in cleveland became so polluted that it caught fire. these terrible events prompted the call to reverse the trend and to clean up the nations rivers and other waters. .today. the cleanup of our rivers and streams has led to the ecoic revitalization of urban centers. neighborhoods. and towns all over america. from boston to chicago to washington. d.c.. americans are cleaning up their rivers and using them for recreation. boating. tourism and leisure. americas rivers continue to serve as transportation links supporting commerce and industry. their greatest contribution to the u.s. ecoy. however. is the 430 billion dollars generated annually from the tourists that visit our rivers. and more than 46 million international tourists visit our rivers each year. the tide has turned significantly from the late 1960s and early 1970s. but we must continue to encourage ongoing protection and promotion of the nations rivers. designating the third saturday in june of each year as "national rivers day" will inspire all americans to get involved in the ongoing protection of our precious rivers and streams. i urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important measure.*
i would have to respond to my distinguished colleague from new hampshire that- if his amendment is in the nature of raiding the various unfortunate people in this land in order to get money for lowincome energy assistance. that was  the proposal of the senator from connecticut. so i want to- disassociate myself. in the first instance. from that comment. i- would suspect that will take a little bit of debate. so when everybody understands that when we vote acrosstheboard cuts such. as have been proposed of 2 percent. that this requires some explaining before the vote came to pass. so. in wise is it a matter of just a few minutes. obviously. every senator wants to k what happens in terms of education. science. health. the retarded. the disabled. et cetera. as a result of that kind of an amendment. i am getting tired also. i might add. of hearing of efforts targeting the aids money in the bill. i k it is a large amount of money. there is a 94 percent increase for aids. i did  invent this deal. the figures in the bill are far below that suggested by the national academy of science and the national institute of medicine. if we have gotten to the point where we are going ahead. as i said. i am tired of talking about the subject. i am tired of those who have amendments as to moralizing on it. i am tired of senators saying go ahead and take the money out of aids. they have some moneyi am sorry about that. but the emergency was placed upon us and that is exactly why grammrudmanhollings. whatever you want to call it. is ridiculous legislation. it does  take into account the fact that the world changes around us. the world changes drastically--
. i want to respond first to several points that were raised in the course of the debate. and then speak again for the amendment. the first poinl i want to make is that  one single penny from the moneys allocated to the space station pre being transferred by virtue of this amendment.  one penny. indeed. should the amendment pass. the money that is involved would be crosswalked out of the energy and water appropriations subcommittee.  out of the subcommittee responsible for nasa funding.  one single penny comes out of the space station. point  2:  one penny is being requested to be added to the additional increases for aids. this is  aids money today. and in ise will the money being requested come out of veterans payments or out of housing. it has hing to do with that. and these are extraneous arguments. one of the prior distinguished speakers indicated this money was being added to a figure of $49 billion budgeted for health programs. this is  the case. so far as health anci human services discretionary spending is concerned. the discretionary aspect of that total is only $13 billion. almost the same as in the science function. so the two functions are almost parallel. point  2: the 250 function received a 25percent increase in this budget. and the health function received a 5percent increase. i just. wanted to cover these points insofar as previously made statements are concerned. again.  one penny is coming out of the space station. this is  new money for aids. this is  coming from veterans or from housing. it is coming from the super collider. even insofar as the super collider project is concerned. it does  terminate that project at all. indeed. let me read from the letter of the committee on energy and natural resources of the u.s. senate to the budget committee on the super collider:
 and every agency of government to take all possible action to utilize such powers as they possess to aid in alleviating the shortages. we are  dealing with any theory. we are dealing with coldand i mean coldstark facts. your committee on interstate and foreign commerce. by initiating hearings last july. did  act as partisans. rather they were acting as a group attempting to discharge their responsibilities to this house and to the american people as a whole. you will find in the report of those hearings a clear indication. even then. that we were  only in trouble as to gas in the thwest but that we were headed for trouble as to heating and fuel oil in other parts of the country this fall and winter unless everything worked out perfectly. you will find that the chairman and the members of the committee constantly impressed upon the witnesses from government and industry the necessity of using every means of avoiding the situation  confronting us. that committee did  c.ontinue its hearings during the last special session as partisans. and it certainly acted as representatives of all the american people. regardless of politics. when it promptly passed the committee resolution before adjournment. i hope that every member of this house. whether he be a democrat or republican. who has people at home suffering or in danger of suffering. will join with us all in trying to point out constructive solutions to remedy this unfortunate situation. which will keep our hospitals open. which will keep our schools and our transportation systems going. which will keep our people at least safely warm. and which will make it possible for these great industrial centers to keep their industries at 100percent production to furnish the goods we need if we are going to undertake the programs ahead of us.
it affects any property owned by the federal government. whether it be a veterans hospital or an office building. it provides that they would  be able to draw on these funds to convert from coal to oil or to install oil if they erect a new building. and if the title is in the federal government. in such circumstances i think they must conform to this limitation.
. the subject of coal mine health and safety is a matter of national concern. although there are coal mines in new york. together with all other americans i was horrified at the recent disaster in farmington. w. va. and. as the ranking miity member of the committee on labor and public welfare and its subcommittee on labor. which has jurisdiction over this area. i feel keenly our responsibility to take swift action to strengthen the hand of the federal government to reduce the annual toll of life and limb in our coal mines. strong measures are necessary. and it is a strong bill that the interior department has sent up to us. which i have had the privilege of introducing today. improvement of coal mine health and safety is clearly a matter of the highest priority for the congress. and the administration has recognized it as such. though it will be obvious to anyone who compares the bill i have introduced today with the bills previously introduced by the senator from new jersey and the senator from west virginia . i should like to emphasize that partisanship is involved in the bill. improvement of health and safety conditions in our coal mines is a matter for all. what is needed is a law which is as strong and as fair as our legislative skill can devise. it is in that spirit that the administration has transmitted and i and senators cooper. scott. schweiker and stevens have sponsored this bill i have introduced today. and i k that that is the spirit which will guide the members of the subcommittee on labor. the full committee on labor and public welfare and ultimately the senate. as they act upon this important legislation.
s message and under secretary trains letter of transmittal. together with certain material appended to his letter. be printed in the record as a part of my remarks. the material appended to the under secretarys letter includes the text of the bill. a sectionbysection summary and analysis. tabular appendixes. and a comparison of the administrations bill. which is hereby introduced. with various other bills dealing with coal mine health and safety which have previously been introduced.
. several weeks ago i introduced s. 1300. a bill to improve the health and safety conditions of coal miners in the united states. hearings are  being held on this and other proposed legislation to emphasize the pressing need for the rapid enactment of a law to protect the health and safety of the coal miners of america.. in remarks to the national coal policy conference on march 11. 1969. under secretary of the interior russell e. train stated that the time had come to substitute action for words in obtaining adequate safeguards for coal miners. he further emphasized that effective regulations for mine health and safety must be supplemented by increased research and development of solutions to the problems created by the advancing techogy of coal mining. i have every reason to expect that the bill reported by the committee on labor and public welfare will serve this purpose. i ask unanimous consent that under secretary trains remarks be printed in the record.
. to refer  to the major issue. the cases seem to be very clear that where the assessment or some payment is required which is to be administered within the governmental structure and it is incidental to the major purpose of the measure itself. as it is in this case. the senate has the power to initiate it. that seems to be the whole purport of the cases. so the real issue is. is this incidental or is it a revenueraising measure. that is really what the cases have held. it is very clear that both in amountthe amount which is involved has been variously argued but. as a matter of fact. it is $20 millionand as to its being tied directly into an ancillary purpose to the bill itself. these are incidental revenues which result and therefore are fully within the power of the senate. in accordance with these precedents. i invite the attention of the senate to section 501(d). which says that the amounts in the trust fund shall be available as provided by the appropriation acts. and that is dealt with in the preceding section. that every part of the trust fundto wit. 100 percentis to be appropriated only. i emphasize the word "only." to enable the secretary and the surgeon general to carry out sections 201 (b). 401. and 402. section 201(b) is found at page 25: the purpose of this title is to provide for the immediate application of mandatory safety standards developed on the basis of experience and advances in techogy and to prevent newly created hazards resulting from new techogy in coal mining. the secretary shall immediately initiate studies. investigations. and research to further upgrade such standards and to develop and promulgate new and improved standards promptly that will provide increased protection to the miners.... that is a very specific purpose. completely incident to the legislative framework of the bill. then we turn to sections 401 and 402. at page 104 of the bill. those are general research sections under the head "administrationresearch." those sections deal with the general responsibility of the secretary and the surgeon general to conduct studies. research. experiments. and demonstration. and so forth. also. in section 402. training and education is specified as follows: the secretary shall expand programs for the eduoation and training of coal mine operators. agents thereof. and miners.... i can conceive of a purpose more incidental to the general legislative purpose of this bill. which is coal mine safety. there is involved how to prevent accidents. occupational diseases. education and training of operators. agents. and miners in respect to safety practices and the effort. which is in section 201(c). to upgrade the standards and to develop and promulgate new and improved standards incident to coal mine safety. therefore. at every point lawfully and legally it seems that we are entirely correct in the argument that the senate has the power. i am  arguing it should or should  exercise the power. we can argue that in due course. but the senate has the power to deal with this kind of assessment and include it in the bill where the general framework is contributed to and the general purpose to raise the money is as an incidental purpose. one thing worries me about this matter and the reason it has been stirred up. and i am grateful to my colleague from kentucky for stirring it up. it would be -a grave mistake and a disservice to the senate if we allowed our judgment on the merits of this assessment to dictate our judgment on the point of order. that is the one point i would like to leave in the record tonight. this is critically important. there is a 5050 chance i will be with members who seek to strike it out. i think it would be a grave error to concede the constitutional point on this point of order. but that is what we would be doing if we sustained the point of order. and it would be the first time because the senate has  heretofore sustained this kind of point of order. that is my understanding from the research i have done and everything i have gathered. the power is critically important because it will extend to many other things and  just to coal mine safety. it may be in a general health and safety bill. it permeates various agricultural bills. it applies to transportation. for example. highway safety. we are talking about airports. we are talking about safety and the safety of the airways of the country which may very well involve some kind of assessment on the user and the senate should  lend itself to the fractionalization of authority and power which this would represent and deprive it of this opportunity in the other fields. we k what would happen in the other body. i served 8 years in the other body. one part of it would go to the ways and means committee. it has totally different standards. and i am  being derogatory. this matter saves the united states a great deal of money. i predict we will be reducing the amounts which can be made available for highly desirable public projects. we are handicapping our ability to control the budget in a serious way and to do effective things if we concede this point of order. i believe the cases do  require it. it would be a grave mistake. and i hope the senate will  hobble itself the way this point of order would make the senate hobble itself.
. may i say to my colleague on this matter of the russian troops that there is question in my mind that that situation exists in egypt and that it includes aircraft. it has very materially changed the strategic situation in that part of the world. to the disadvantage of israels security and in a way which could prejudice the energy resources on which europe depends from the mideast. and to the disadvantage of american security. including potential jeopardy of our fleet in the mediterranean. i would like to ask the senator if he is  saying that he. too. is writing a prescription that russian troops have to get out of egypt in a phased withdrawal before there can be a peace settlement. and suggest that we may  be able to accomplish that. the senator is saying that this has a very real bearing on what kind of a peace settlement israel is required to make and upon the desirability of a fourpower guarantee which might emphasize the secretarys desirehe did  propose thatand might allow us that possibility. to include united states and russian troops. this is so directly and importantly affected by the fact that the russians are in egypt in a major way. if they get out it could simplify the problem of securing peace.
. it is sad to say. but the coal industry has up to  hardly exemplified the best aspects of our system in terms of conservation of the lands. the health and safety of the lives of thousands of coal miners. and competition and free collective bargaining like other american industries. on the contrary. its conduct throughout the years of its business and labor relations. as shown by a whole series of court decisions. and our own committees present investigation. presents one of the worst examples of our system. certainly. the coal industry has serious problems.  all of its own making.  do i deny that this bill and the new health and safety standards are going to cost the industry money. some of these costs are going to have to be passed on to the consumer. but that is also true of other industries with serious problems. the point is that the coal industry ought to pay its way just like the others. including whatever it may cost to insure that disabled coal miners are adequately compensated for physical impairment suffered in getting out the coal. thus. i hope very much that attempt will be made to strike out of the senate bill the 1year provisions i have mentioned. there is justification i can see for more than a 1year delay in the assumption of liability for new claims by the operators.  is there any reason  to make the part c program permanent. miners who are totally disabled by black lung are  going suddenly to regain their health in 1977. and will need benefits just as much during and after that year as they do . finally. there is certainly warrant for exonerating operators from the liberalizing changes made by this bill in connection with the coverage of orphans. the elimination of the xray and the establishment of a rebuttable presumption after 15 years of experience in underground mines or comparable employment in surface mines. upon a showing of total respiratory or pulmonary impairment. in connection with the presumption. it bears emphasis that under many workmens compensation laws. including the longshoremen and harbor workers compensation act. the burden is on the employer to establish that a disability is  occupationally related. the worker is thus mally given the benefit of the doubt. and that is really all that this bill does for coal miners. the differences in medical opinion which exist on the question of whether such a presumption is justified. and the incidence of disabling respiratory impairment among coal miners. as compared to the general population. are merely evidence of our almost total neglect. until very recently. of occupational health problems generallyand coal workers health problems in -particular. in the absence of definitive evidence one way or the other. the committee. properly. in my judgment. has resolved the issue in favor of the totally disabled miner. some of the costs of this bill are going to have to be passed on to the consumers. however. other industries with serious problems have had the same situation. the point is that the coal mining industry ought to pay its way just as other industries have to pay their way. if that means that it will cost more for coal to insure that the health of coal miners is adequately treated. then i would say that a sense of fairness and justice of the american people will indicate that the increased cost is justifiable. as i said before. this is  necessarily a weak industry. surely. there are a lot of small operators. they have more eloquent champion than the senator from kentucky
in respect to the latter argument made by the senator. we are persuaded that the only way you are going to get effective safety and health for all miners is to put them under one standard. precisely because the metallic and metallic safety act has so lagged behind the times in respect of mandatory health and safety standards that it would take years to catch up. t1he best evidence of that is the comptroller general. we are  blind to the fact that there are many areas where there needs to be separation between coal mining and other mining. where the situation is  the same or analogous. where the situation is the same or analogous. uniform regulations should obtain. i think the intent is clear that where the problem is  the same and there should be a distinction. a distinction should be made. let me call the senators attention to these words. if he will turn to page 144 of the bill. section 301 (b) (1). the language reads. particularly at lines 18 and 19--it begins at line 12: the mandatory standards relating to mines. issued by the secretary of the interior then it cites the acts. and going on down to line 16: which are in effect on the date of enactment of this act shall remain in effect and here are the pertinent words: as standards and regulations applicable to metal and metallic mines and to coal mines respectively those words. it seems to me. are the key. in other words. the separation is maintained at that point.
