. it is a very real personal privilege for me to have this opportunity of paying tribute to my good friend and former colleague. the late pehr g. holmes. when i first came to congress i found in pehr holmes  only a fellow republican congressman from a district adjoining my district. but a man who became a valued friend. he was always glad to give me the advice i sought of him frequently. i am certain that all who knew pehr had the same respect that i had for his fine abilities. for his devotion to his responsibilities. and for his complete integrity. his record of public service as a member of the govers council. as the mayor of worcester for three terms. and as a member of congress from 1931 to 1947 was a splendid one. it has been said of him that "he was anxious to be right on all public questions." i am certain that pehr never reached any decision during his public life without believing deeply that it was the right decision. an editorial appearing in the worcester telegram after pehrs death was concluded as follows: he was a man without pretense or show. he made claim to brilliance. he never sought to electrify washington. his ambition was to serve his country and people steadily and in good conscience. it is high tribute to him to say that he succeeded. since 1947 pehr always came to the floor of this house when he was in washington to visit with his former colleagues. it was always a real pleasure for us to see him. and we shall all miss greatly our association with him. i join in extending my deepest sympathy to his two sons. his sister. and his brother in their great loss.
. general services administrator robert l. kunzig has recently named a public advisory council at gsa for the purpose of creating public involvement in gsa operations. the state of new jersey is ably represented on the council by mr. william j. dorgan. a new jersey businessman and member of the bergen county board of freeholders. mr. dorgan is a partner in torway warehouse. inc.. of edgewater. n.j. mr. dorgans career of public service has spanned 20 years during which he has been mayor of palisades park and freeholder of bergen county. n.j. also. he has served in the u.s. coast guard. gsa is fortunate to have obtained the services of such an outstanding citizen. mr. dorgans background will prove valuable in aiding administrator kunzig as a member of the gsa public advisory council.
