. the ranking miity members and the entire membership of the house armed services committee are to be commended for their efforts to improve the selective service standards. it is a matter of regret that the other body has neither shown the willingness to accept constructive changes  the cooperation to adopt the fruits of the house labors. i therefore have concluded that i can support the conference report. the house version of s. 1432. which i did support. made only limited reforms. far short of the changes which republicans have advocated for some time. but the house bill did include one essential improvement. it provided for the setting of clear. nationwide standards for draft classification and defermentstandards which would guarantee that young men in similar circumstances would receive similar treatment matter where they live. under the present system. national guidelines for classification are so general and vague that they provide practically guidance at all. local boards. lacking any uniform direction. have developed different and conflicting policies. so that the status of a teacher. a policeman. a fireman or a law student is determined by chancethe chance of where he happens to report. national standards would  interfere with the legitimate discretion of local boards in individual cases. but would minimize inequities and inconsistencies. and would remove much of the confusion and uncertainty which so many young americans must  endure. i deeply regret that even this limited reform has been so severely diluted in the conference report. our military manpower policies directly affect more american families in a more personal way than any other federal programs. including the income tax. our debts to the young men called to military service have  been paid. or even properly ackledged. by the hasty and restricted congressional debates this year. i will continue to work with my colleagues for fundamental. necessary changes in selective service policies. but i can vote to continue the present confusion and inequities for 4 more years.
. i feel that the house today is faced with a crucial vote. whether or  we will face our responsibilities as a congress and as a nation is before us. there has been much talk of politics. there has been some laughter on the other side of the aisle. i submit that this is a serious question. i submit that we have a real opportunity to exercise leadership in the national interest today. anybody who has worked seriously in the field of employment and unemployment ks that in the field of vocational training there is a clear need for training for all americans. in particular we should attach an antidiscrimination amendment to this program. it is my hope that the other side of the aisle will join in a bipartisan opportunity to do something that is basic to the future of our country and take a forward step which is essential to the training opportunities for all americans.
. i am reintroducing today a bill which was originally drafted by former congressman james roosevelt and myself and subsequently was reintroduced. as amended. by chairman powell and by congressman hawkms. the bill passed the house on april 27. 1966. but failed of action in the senate. the need for an fepc with teeth is clearly and increasingly essential. this is particularly true in the area of apprenticeship training in which only 2 to 3 percent of the participants today are negro. as a result. many americans are denied the basic opportunity to learn a skill essential to entry into a union and to the earning of a livable wage. much of the hardcore. structural unemployment is in areas where negro and puerto rican unemployment runs double that of other groups. it is my hope that this bill can once again receive favorable consideration and action by the committee on education and labor. and that it will enjoy the support of the house and. in the 90th congress. of the senate as well.
. i am proud to be an original cosponsor 1 of legislation which would help disadvantaged youths to become productive and educated members of society. this bill attacks youth unemployment and rising school dropout ratestwo problems of startling proportions. it does so by encouraging communitybased organizations and local educational agencles to establish career intern programs. youth unemployment is virtually endemic to many areas of this country. in 1980. the unemployment rate among teenagers was over 17 percent. the rate for miity group teenagers was over twice that. equally alarming. and by means unrelated. are the emous numbers of youths who are dropping out of school. running away from home. and getting in trouble with the law. youths who are without even the prospect of jobs which provide security and the opportunity for advancement often become destructive of themselves and society. it is vital that youths be given the opportunity to acquire skills that will allow them to support and improve themselves. programs and theories aimed at resolving youth unemployment abound. yet. many are of dubious value or seriously flawed. this bill endorses an approach with proven success. education is an essential prerequisite to placing and keeping youths in the workforce. it readies them  only for work. but for life. communitybased organizations. such as the opportunities industrialization centers. are best able to respond to youth unemployment and its attendant problems. for it is they who best understand the conditions which give rise to the problems which youths face. these groups have worked with local education agencies to rescue high school dropouts. to teach them basic skills. and to train them for productive jobs. in this time of budgetary restraint. it is essential that we recognize that career intern programs have been cost effective. they have provided education and training at costs at or below tho3e offered in traditional settings. moreover. they have made productive citizens out of disillustoned youths who might otherwise have dwelled in a state of hopelessness and been lifelong recipients of public aid. we are  engaged in a stringent review of various ceta programs. as we seek to eliminate or correct those elements of ceta which have  worked. we must  abandon the goal of reducing youth unemployment. by embracing an approach which has demonstrated its effectiveness. we will be directing our energies toward giving a justifiable sense of hope to those youths who most desperately need our help.*
ial merit schools program and the national science scholars program. both programs encourage and reward the best in american education. this act authorizes $200 million for a new national program to reward outstanding schools: merit schools. at a time when many of the nations classrooms are in crisis. it is applopriate to recognize deserving schools that have distinguished themselves through raising educational achievement. establishing a drugfree climate. and increasing graduation rate. this legislation also authorizes $6 million to establish a meritbased national science scholars program to reward achieving high school students who will continue their study. of the sciences. math. and engineering at the postsecondary level. some may say that $6 million is only a drop in the bucketif we are serious about returning american students to the top in global science and math achievement. more money is needed. this new proposal. however. is an important step in reclaiming american supremacy in. math and science achievement. this new funding indicates that america is willing to do more to encourage our young students to pursue a career in the sciences. the most contentious provision in this legislation is title x. title x will authorize $25 million over 3 years for the national board for professional teaching standards to develop a set of teacher certification standards for elementary and secondary school teachers throughout the united states. i fully support the need for high and rigorous standards for our nations teachers. teachers represent a distinguished profession and a system must be established to identify and certify the nations most outstanding teachers.. the national board for professional teaching standards.. in my opinion. is best prepared to develop a set of voluntary examinations to help teachers distinguish themselves within their profession. nevertheless. i must agree with my distinguished colleague from kansas . the federal government must encourage competitiveness when considering grant proposals of this magnitude. the funding that this legislation calls. for. $25 million over 3 years. is simply too much to direct to one groupeven such a deserving group. as the national board for professional.teaching standardson a competitive basis. this $25 million grant would represent approximately 20 percent of the department of educations entire research budget. it is imprudent. to designate this large sum without. the benefit of a competitive process. i supported senator kass=aums amendment to s. 695 because in my view the federal government shoud  make it a practice to award such a sizable grant without the benefit of a competitive bidding process. the department of education should make the final decision on what group is best prepared to establish the criteria for recognizing outstanding american teacher. in closing. i would like to commend senator kassebaux and the entire committee on labor and human resources for bringing this legislation to the senate floor. it is my hope that the excellence in education act will serve as a guide for members of the educational community who share our deep concern for promoting excellence and achievement in americas classrooms.
 of the gilbane building co.. offered his many talents as a commission member. "americas choice" provides a thoughtprovoking plan to develop a high quality american educational and training system. the proposals are bold. even daring. i would like to mention three of the commissions especially eworthy recommendations: recommendation  1: create a new educational performance standard to be met by all students at age 16. the message in this recommendation is straightforward. if american workers. have trouble in the educational arena. they will be unable to complete in the ecoic arena. todays young people are expected to become productive workers. they must have certain essential skills. unfortunately. standardized tests do  accurately reflect what students k or should k. high school degrees have become devalued. how can students measure their progress. how can businesses evaluate a potential workers employment qualifications. the commission suggests that by age 16. all american students should achieve competency in a number of subject areas to be measured by a cumulative assessment system. students who have mastered courses in science. history. math. and other subjects would be awarded a certificate of initial mastery. this system would set objective standards for students. and provide objective means for employers to measure the capabilities of job applicants. recommendation  2: develop alternative learning environments for those in or out of school who need special help attaining the new performance standard. the study recommends the establishment of new local employment and training board youth centers to help young people age 14 to 21 achieve minimal performance standards. these centers could help youngsters master subjects yearround in an alternative setting. moreover. youth centers could provide an essential link between displaced students and employers. to help young people understand the importance of proficiency standards. the report suggests that individuals without a certificate or  enrolled in a program leading to a certificate be prevented from entering the job market before age 18. proposed changes in child labor laws would penalize employers in violation of this provision. this is an interesting recommendation that merits closer examination. the traditional classroom remains the preferred educational setting. but with dropout rates soaring about 50 percent in many urban areas. youth centers could play an important role in preparing individuals for the workforce. recommendation  3: encourage employers to invest in further worker training programs. only a dedicated investment on the part of american employers will enable american productivity to improve in the next decade. "americas choice" suggests that all employers should spend 1 percent of their payroll on education and training. employers must invest in human capital. investments in training and retraining will reap longterm dividends for business. factory workers. service providers. and upper level management all benefit from further training. unfortunately. just 10 percent of .american training dollars go toward frontline or bluecollar training. if the united states is to remain an ecoic superpower. acrosstheboard training is essential. the commission has done an excellent job of framing the educational and workforce problems confronting the nation. equally important. the report proposes a plan of action to improve american competitiveness. in order to implement many of these proposals. however. schools will need additional resources. the call to improve workforce quality will require a significant human and financial commitment. to ensure a more prosperous future. we must be prepared to make investments today. for too long politicians. educators. and employers have made excuses for the decline in american productivity. we need to demand quality in the classroom. on the assembly line. and in -the boardroom. the publication of "americas choice" is an important step toward correcting the problems that are hindering americas growth in a fiercely competitive world ecoy. i encourage my colleagues to read the commissions report. it is a valuable document that deserves to be considered seriously.*
the senator is exactly right. the particular provision he was referring to works as follows. a company. hewlettpackard. sends one of its employees to stanford for a graduate course. under the existing law. that employees tuition which is paid by hewlettpackard does  count as income to those people. it is what we call a taxfree fringe benefit. . when this lapses. it means that the individual will have to pay income taxes on the tuition the company is paying. in other words. he is  getting the money. but is paying tax on a privilege without having the added income to pay the additional tax. therefore. it discourages employees from taking these opportunities. and these are the opportunities we want to encourage employee to take. we want them to be right there ready to design the latest type of computers or equipment or software or whatever it is to help this country create more jobs. i thank my friend from connecticut.
s proposal stems from my previous legislative initiatives on youth service. service learning. and fundamental reforms in federal student loan programs. they include my cosponsorship of the national and community service act in 1990. my authorship. with senator wofford. of the service learning act of 1993. s. 676 and my work with senator paul simon and others on the income contingent direct loan demonstration that congress included in the higher education amendments of 1992.
. i rise today to perform what can only be described as a bittersweet task. that of recognizing a retiring colleague whose accomplishments on behalf of disabled americans have set a standard of excellence for all who follow him. that colleague is. of course. jennings randolph of west virginia who after 40 years of congressional service will retire from the senate at the close of the 98th congress. senator randolph sooner came to congress in 1932 than he became involved in new deal legislation creating social security. the national labor relations act. the fair labor standards act. and numerous other laws -which brought social conscience to federal policy. his commitment to meeting the needs of all americans is deep rooted and constant. but it is his determination on behalf of disabled americans that i wish to dwell on today. for it was jennings randolph who ventured that handicapped citizens could. if given the chance. participate in and contribute to our society rather than be relegated to the backwaters of its faroff institutions: he began in 1936 by authoring the randolphsheppard act giving blind vendors the opportunity to become independent entrepeneurs. he powered the breakthrough of the 1973 vocational rehabilitation act. providing job training and civil rights protection to the handicapped. and in supervised the creation of public law 94142. the landmark education for all handicapped children act. setting in place the same educational opportunities for disabled youngsters as our nation has been so justifiably proud to provide to those without disabilities. from the special centers of excellence for deaf persons at gallaudet college and the national technical institute for the deaf to the statewide advocacy and protection systems for persons with lifelong and multiple disabilities. there has  been a single modern federal initiative for the disabled in which jannins randolph has  been instrumental. here in the senate. jennings randolph created the subcommittee on the handicapped and became its first chairman. he remains our chairman emeritus. guiding the ongoing oversight and refinement of those laws which he helped establish. senator randolphs father once told him. "remember the man and woman by the wayside of the road." the senator has done more than "remember." he has set the disabled on the road to productive independence and selfworth and in so doing has tapped a most valuable natural resourcethe human potential of americas 36 million disabled citizens. for that reason among many jennings randolph will be long. remembered by those of us who had the privilege of king him.
. i rise today to perform what can only be described as a bittersweet task. that of recognizing a retiring colleague whose accomplishments on behalf of disabled americans have set a standard of excellence for all who follow him. that colleague is. of course. jennings randolph of west virginia who after 40 years of congressional service will retire from the senate at the close of the 98th congress. senator randolph sooner came to congress in 1932 than he became involved in new deal legislation creating social security. the national labor relations act. the fair labor standards act. and numerous other laws -which brought social conscience to federal policy. his commitment to meeting the needs of all americans is deep rooted and constant. but it is his determination on behalf of disabled americans that i wish to dwell on today. for it was jennings randolph who ventured that handicapped citizens could. if given the chance. participate in and contribute to our society rather than be relegated to the backwaters of its faroff institutions: he began in 1936 by authoring the randolphsheppard act giving blind vendors the opportunity to become independent entrepeneurs. he powered the breakthrough of the 1973 vocational rehabilitation act. providing job training and civil rights protection to the handicapped. and in supervised the creation of public law 94142. the landmark education for all handicapped children act. setting in place the same educational opportunities for disabled youngsters as our nation has been so justifiably proud to provide to those without disabilities. from the special centers of excellence for deaf persons at gallaudet college and the national technical institute for the deaf to the statewide advocacy and protection systems for persons with lifelong and multiple disabilities. there has  been a single modern federal initiative for the disabled in which jannins randolph has  been instrumental. here in the senate. jennings randolph created the subcommittee on the handicapped and became its first chairman. he remains our chairman emeritus. guiding the ongoing oversight and refinement of those laws which he helped establish. senator randolphs father once told him. "remember the man and woman by the wayside of the road." the senator has done more than "remember." he has set the disabled on the road to productive independence and selfworth and in so doing has tapped a most valuable natural resourcethe human potential of americas 36 million disabled citizens. for that reason among many jennings randolph will be long. remembered by those of us who had the privilege of king him.
. i rise to oppose the amendment of the distinguished senator from wisconsin. evaluations of the job corps indicate that the ecoic benefits. to society far outweigh the costs. an estimated $1.46 is returned for each dollar invested. that from a study conducted under labor department contract by mathematica policy research. each year.the program enrolls more than 100.000 disadvantaged youth. and places 90 percent in jobs. higher education. or the armed forces. these results have been obtained with a group of young people that are so severely disadvantaged that they need residential living away from disruptive homes to get a new start on life. seventyfive percent are miities. 90 percent are school dropouts. 38 percent have been arrested. and 19 percent convicted. almost. all come from impoverished families. . the average cost per trainee of $5.200 covers residential living. basic education. vocational skills training. health care and education. counseling and job placement. the plus-$15.000 annual "slot" cost is misleading. since more than one youth is served during each 12month "slot." the committee has exercised restraint in freezing job corps at last years level of $617 million. compared to the $640 million house allowance. at the senate level. the labor department has indicated it would have to close 3 to 5 of the existing 107 job corps centers. i hope that the amendment would be defeated.
. by occupying lithuania. the soviet union is breaking the basic human rights laws that the united states strongly supports. as the leader of the free world we strongly support the lithuanians as we celebrate the 69th anniversary of the lithuanian independence day. by celebrating this day we pledge our support to a people whose cultural and religious past has been iged. and our commitment to the ideals of freedom and equality. the lithuanians declared themselves independent in 1918 after nearly a century of czarist russia occupation. unfortunately this did  last very long for in 1939 the soviet union returned and took over the free country. the people of lithuania gave a hard and long fight during which more than 300.000 people were deported to labor camps in siberia. they suffered as a country and stayed united. they were stripped of their basic human rights. but they would never give up their religious beliefs. as aher year of their struggle. begins. the people of the united states should give their support to the people of this important country who will  give up their cultural and religious heritage. we must realize the significance of independence day and recognize it as an example of great will. this is a lesson to us all and as such. we must learn from the lithuanians and always remember their plight. i salute the great courage -and determination of the lithuanians. they are
. a year and a half ago. when the national advisory commission on civil disorders submitted its report. there were about 2 million unemployed and 10 million underemployed americans. of those 10 million. 6.5 million earned less than the annual poverty wage. the commission rightly observed: the pervasive effect of these conditions on the racial ghetto is inextricably linked to the problem of civil disorders. one year later. urban america and the urban coalition report little progress. despite the fact that as a general result of expansion in the ecoy. employment and income are rising in ghetto areas. the fact still remains that negro family income in the cities is 68 percent of white family income. negro college graduates earn only 74 percent of white college graduate incomes. a negro college graduate can expect to make only $13 more per year than a white high school graduate. in a word. inequities remain. and these inequities are  based on skill differentials or lack of motivation. they are largely the result of conscious or unconscious racial discrimination. many serious efforts have been made in recent years to overcome these inequities. there is scarcely a large company in america which does  have a special program for hiring and training miity employees. police departments and fire departments across the nation are looking for miity recruits. colleges and universities are offering special scholarships for ghetto residents. and generally providing some kind of compensatory education program as well. but two barriers to miity ecoic progress remain. the first of these. paradoxically and inexcusably. is in the area of equal employment by federal. state. and local governments. the second pertains to the expansion and encouragement of miity entrepreneurship. last year the civil disorders commission recommended as a first step in opening the existing job structure that title vii of the 1964 civil rights act be expanded to cover the hiring practices of federal. state. and local government agencies. as presently written. this title covers private businesses or other employers with 25 or more employees. as well as labor unions and employment agencies. it does  cover government agencies and departments. where a black man in a position of responsibility is a rare sight indeed. if government would seek to set the tone for race relations in this country. if it would strive to eliminate discrimination in business and commerce and industry. it would seem to me that a primary goal should be to eliminate discrimination within its own province. for this reason. i introduce on behalf of myself and senators case. cooper. hatfield. hartke. javits. and percy. a bill to amend title vii of the civil rights act of 1964 to provide for the application of such title to state and federal employers. i ask unanimous consent that the full text of the bill be printed at this point in the record.
. although labor we have already completed our hearings we have provided more than $23 mnilfor the regular appropriation bill. we lion for department of labor items. would be happy to hear from the school these include funds to provide for more superintendents for each district at the staff for special investigations under the most severely affected installations. that pension program and for handling. would allow us to hear directly from the among other matters. the increase in grassroots as to how severe the school age discrimination complaints. addifacility problem is at each installation. tional funds are provided for mandatory
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to strengthen the social security program. my bill would provide for longrange improvements in. the scale of general benefits. it would remove a number of existing inequities. in all. approximately 2 million social security recipients would benefit next year. alone. it provides for financing the cost of the improvements. for the past 2 years. medicare has been the major consideration of congress in the social security field. it is doubtful. i am afraid. that congress will complete action on medicare legislation this year. although much depends upon how long we stay in session. i have. of. course. supported in the past. and continue to support. healthcare legislation. but. in addition. i believe we should also give attention to a number of existing inequities in the social security law and to its longrange adequacy. legislation can meet every need. remove every obstacle. pay every bill. but my bill is an effort to help resolve some of the more troublesome inadequacies and inconsistencies. in substance. the billfirst. helps those who wish to continue to work. past retirement age. by permitting them to earn $1.800 a year. without losing social security benefits. rather than $1.200. which is the present ceiling on outside earnings. beyond this improvement. the bill would reduce the present penalty on outside earnings between $1.800 and $2.400 a year by allowing retention of $1 in benefits for every $2 earned between these amounts. the provision. as a whole. would. in the first year of operation. materially assist about 900.000 social security beneficiaries. for some. forced retirement creates more than financial hardship. important as that is. people are living longer. and feeling better for it. than at any time in the history of man. forcing them out of the work force before their time often destroys their sense of usefulness. stability. and personal worth. second. provides an increase in the earnings base on which taxes are levied and benefits paid from the first $4.800 of income to $5.400. this would increase the maximum family benefit from $254 to $274. and the maximum benefits for the individual worker from $127 to $137. in the first year alone. this provision would benefit 700.000 family members. and eventually. all who receive social security will benefit. this change is required in order to keep up with increases in the cost of living and to maintain a closer relationship between current salaries of workers prior to retirement and the amount of benefits on which they must live following retirement. third. pays benefits for children up to age 22. instead of 18 years. if the children are fulltime students. when these benefits were established in 1940. it was presumed that. by age 18. a child would have completed his schooling and would be capable of. supporting himself. this is longer true. the number of professional. technical. and other jobs requiring higher educational qualifications is growing at a much greater rate than the number of un-. skilled jobs. a study made by the u.s. office of education in 1956 and a 1960 study by the survey research center of the university of michigan each showed that about 60 percent of the cost of college attendance came from family contributions. aher office of education study. published in 1958. reported that lack of financial resources was a major cause of college dropouts. and families that have lost the earnings of the family breadwinner are more likely to lack financial resources than are other families.  only may the child be prevented from going to college by loss of parental support and loss of his benefits. he may also be prevented from finishing high school. there are in the country about 500.000 high school students who have passed their 18th birthday. in april 1960. almost half of the students enrolled in the 12th grade were age 18 or older. this provision would benefit. in its first year. 350.000 individuals who otherwise would be ineligible. fourth. eliminates a serious restriction in the payment of disability insurance benefits. by assuring benefits to an insured worker who has been totally disabled for a continuous period of between 150 and 180 days. for each additional month in which the worker continues to be totally disabled. under present law. disability benefits are  paid unless the workers disability is expected either to result in death or to continue to be total for an indefinite period. in the first year. this provision and the following one would bring benefits to a total of 585.000 disabled workers. fifth. reduces from the present 6 months to 4 months the waiting period for disability benefits. under this provision. disability benefits could be paid beginning with the fifth full month of disability.  the seventh. as under the present law. and a workers first check would reach him within 150 to 180 days after being disabled. sixth. provides benefits for disabled widows. under existing law. a widow. whether healthy or disabled. can receive social security benefits until she reaches age 62. yet a widow who is disabled needs money to live on at least as much as does a widow who can work. my bill requires that in order to be eligible for benefits. a widow must be disabled either at the time of her husbands death or within a 7year period after his death.. this would cover 60.000 widows. next year. seventh. corrects certain technical aspects of the retirement test which under present law. bar some beneficiaries from receiving benefits upon reaching age 72. on the cost side. the bill would require expenditures from the social security trust fund amounting to .39 percent of payroll. of this. .24 percent would be financed by the provision. which i have already described. increasing from $4.800. as at present. to $5.400 the portion of an individuals annual earnings which are taxed and credited for social security benefits. the remainder of the benefits would be financed by substituting decimals for fractions in determining future tax rates. this change would  only have the effect of increasing slightly the income to the trust fund. it would also be consistent with the change already made under the amendments of 1961 in the social security rates for selfemployed people. furthermore. it would simplify the computation of taxes. my bill also permits transfer of social security income from the old age and survivors insurance fund to the disability fund. thus assuring stability for both funds in the light of the cost of my amendments.
the difference in earnings between white and negro men continues. according to the report. to be much more pronced in the south than in other parts of the country. it is striking that analysis of the figures shows that white high school graduates earn less on the average than white workers in the same occupation who have completed only the eighth gradein some instances as much as a onethird less. the manpower report estimates on the basis of the 1960 censustoday the senator from pennsylvania emphasized the pointthat the average white man who has completed college can expect to earn less over a lifetime than the white man who did  go beyond the eighth grade. of course. discriminatory hiring practices are  in themselves the whole explanation for the deprivation of the negro. the negro american is shortchanged all along the line. discrimination in employment is the culmination of a whole set of discriminatory forcesforces which start even before birth. in health care. in housing. in education. the negro is ct a disadvantage. a whole complex of social institutions has effectively isolated the negro community from the mainstream of american life. its institutions and its aspirations. for this isolation.  only the negro. but also the nation pays a high price. but while discriminatory employment practices are only one facet of the overall problem. they are a vital aspect. whatever is done in other fieldsespecially education. public accommodations. in apprenticeship. and retraining programsis reduced in value. if  set at ght. if there is  a fair chance for a decent job. that is why title vii is such a crucial part of the pending bill. s committee on government contracts. appropriate legislation to end the discriminatory membership practices of some labor union locals. unless such practices are eradicated promptly by the labor unions themselves. use of the fullscale review of existing state laws. and of prior proposals for federal legislation. to eliminate discrimination in employment  being conducted by the civil rights commission. for guidance in our objective of developing a federalstate program in the employment area. special consideration of training programs aimed at developing the skills of those  working in marginal agricultural employment so that they can obtain employment in industry. ably in the new industries moving into the south. what are the provisions of title vi.
. throughout my service in the senate i have worked hard in support of proposals to give our children an opportunity to receive the kind of diet that will make them grow. both mentally and physically. into healthy adults. therefore. i am particularly pleased whenever we are able to make improvements in the national school lunch program as well as the newer programs such as the school breakfast and special supplemental food programs. one of these improvements came when we were successful in enacting an amendment i sponsored to make permanent the optional reducedprice lunch.  we have the opportunity to make this program mandatory. and raise the income eligibility criteria for it from 175 to 195. percent of the poverty income guidelines. in new jersey. estimates are that this would result in a substantial increase in the number of schools that would be required to establish reducedprice lunch programs. this new bill also redefines "school" so that children in residential child care institutions are eligible to participate in the school lunch program. included are children in homes for the mentally retarded or emotionally disturbed. orphanages. temporary shelters for runaway and abused children. hospitals for chronically ill children. and juvenile detention centers. aher important provision in this legislation will make it possible for children in day care centers to be eligible for the school breakfast and lunch programs just as they would be if they were in the public schools. over 27.000 new jersey children will be made eligible for these programs through this provision. new jersey has had a consistently high rate of unemployment in the recent past. this bill providesfor 1 year onlyimmediate eligibility for free or reducedprice lunches for children in households where the person who is the source of support has become employed. in addition the program that provides supplemental food assistance to pregnant women. infants. and childrenwicis extended through september 1978. and the school breakfast program is made permanent. the summer special food program is extended through the summer of 1977. unfortunately. the conference committee deleted most of the provisions of my amendment to restore to the department of agriculture the authority to regulate what may be sold in vending machines in schools participating in the lunch and breakfast programs. the committee retained the section of my amendment. however. that provides for $1 million annually to the states for the purpose of helping them set up programs to teach children the nutritional value of foods and the relationship of nutrition to human health. there have been some criticisms of waste in our school food programs. and i am glad to see that the bill authorizes a study to be undertaken by the department of agriculture on the degree and cause of plate waste in the school lunch program. a tremendous amount of effort has gone into this bill. in committee and on the floor. and i firmly believe it is a good one.
. i also ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a resolution of the joint student legislature of syracuse university to the same effect. it is significant that the protests from colleges in my own state upon this subject are mounting. i find it very gratifying that there is this particular support for s. 2929. a bill to repeal the disclaimer affidavit. which i have cosponsored with the senator from massachusetts and the senator from pennsylvania in connection with our work on the committee on labor and public welfare.
apparently it is the question of the relationship between income and children of school age which produces this mathematical difference between pennsylvania and new york. strange as that seemed to me when i read the figures.
madam president i have had the ho of carrying the flag. as our distinguished colleague the senator from illis is wont to say. for what is essentially the basic idea of the senior senator from kentucky as to how the allocation of school aid funds should be handled. i am proud to have been able to do that. i am thoroughly convinced that the concept of the senator from kentucky is the right one. and i hope very much the senate will agree. we did discuss this matter in the greatest detail in the committee. madam president. so i should like. being a lawyer as my colleagues k. to state first to the senate what we want. what we want to do is to change the allocation formula in the bill so that in lieu of the allocations of the bill. which are  based exclusively upon the numbers of schoolage children and the incomes per schoolage child for each state. without any minimum. we may provide a minimum of $20 per public school pupil. we provide $20 per public school pupil for all the states which have 75 percent or more of the national average income per public school child. for states below that line. we propose that over a period of 3 years. their participation in the program of federal assistance to their public school systems shall be based upon a federal contribution of onethird the difference between an optimum foundation of $400 per pubilc school pupil and 4 percent of the states total personal incomewhich is what they ought to be able to accomplish for themselves. that is the fundamental difference between our formula and the formula which is  incorporated in the bill. madam president. our formula results in a bill that would cost. over a period of 3 years. $2.224 million. the formula contained in the bill will cost the taxpayers. over a period of 3 years. $2.550 million. i think it fair to say that the senator from kentucky and i believe that. in order to serve the fundamental purposes of this legislation. it is unnecessary to have it cost the country $326 million more. we feel that the only reason for the extra $326 million over 3 years as contained in the bill is to "sweeten up" the participation of the 20 states whose people have incomes in the middle level. between the upper group and the lowest group. we respectfully submit that this is a "sweetening" which is unnecessary. because those states already have reasonably high levels of education today. and  a single one of the 20 states has reached the maximum capacity for helping itself. on that basis. what is being done is to increase federal expenditures to the extent of $326 million without relation to need. in the case of the socalled middle income states. so that something is done which need  be done. the cost of the bill is increased. but the fundamental purposes of the bill are  being served. what the committee formula does. in addition. is to distort and reduce the participation for most of those states which are in the high income categorystates like my own. for example. it also results in less benefit for the states at the lowest end of the scale in terms of the income of their people and the amounts available  in those states for public school educationstates which require the most federal aid and which the federal government should be trying to help by this bill. on all those grounds. we feel the formula which has been developed by the committee on labor and public welfare is  a sound formula. and certainly is  comparable to the formula developed by the senator from kentucky and myself. i point out also that the committee concept is quite different from our concept. and that this is a very important substantive consideration in respect to the bill. the bill has standard toward which the state effort is to be projected. it merely proposes that the effort which has been made shall be maintained. and that the states. in order to earn participation under this bill. shall continue to scale their efforts in accordance with the national level. but it provides optimum level toward which the school effort and the aid under this bill is to be projected. our bill does that through the foundation plan to which i have referred. we provide that the federal government will contribute onethird of the amount by which 4 percent of the state income fails to equal $350 per public school pupil for the first year. $375 per pupil for the second year. and $400 per pupil for the third year400 being the present national average expenditure per pupil.
i point out to the senator that of course the total amount under our amendment is smaller by $326 million. also. the formula is scaled according to need. in other words. in the hierarchy of need and in terms of a foundation plan which measures the state income eligible to be used for school purposes. this is where georgia ranks. the figures work out that way. based on the facts.
based upon the income per public school pupil of the people in both states. these states come in that group whose people enjoy a personal income above the figure of 75 percent of the national average. therefore. under the formula of the senator from kentucky and myself. they are among the $20 states. they would receive the basic $20 grants per public school child.
it proceeds upon the assumption that an optimum educationthat is.  the highest.  the lowestwill require a certain amount of money. and that that is pretty universally true. i do  think that is quite the same thing as saying the costs of education are the same in every state. i think it is accurate to say that if refinements of one kind and aher were indulged in. they would be more expensive in new york than they would be. for example. in south carolina. but when we think in terms of a certain basic amount of money needed in a state in order to give a reasonable optimum amount of education. the cost is a fixed amount. for example. one could say that in any state of the union a per capita income of somewhere around $2.000 was absolutely essential to maintaining any kind of a respectable standard of living. even in family life. that does  mean one could do as well in new york on that amount of money as he could in iowa or in aher state which probably does  have such high costs. yet that figure would be accepted as being basic to everybody in the united states. that is the concept the senator from kentucky and i have tried to get over in terms of average education expenditures over the country. the average expenditure per pupil through the country is $390 for the 196061 school year we are  in. we have picked the $400 figure. to be obtained in the third year. as representing some optimum basis. without going into the fine details of the highcost and lowcost states. and yet have come to a reasonable basis. overall. of the same general character i have described in referring to a standard of living.
. i think it is most unfortunate that the compensation to youth who will study under the terms of the proposal. who will be learning or training under the terms of the bill. has been reduced. and that the age limit has been raised. i have talked in very recent days with most distinguished leaders in our community. with people like helen hall harris. one of our great settlement workers in new york. and one of the greatest in the world. these people feel very strongly that we should encourage those who are from 16 to 19 years of age to study under the terms of the bill. and that there is a tremendous area in which we could help to deal with problems of juvenile delinquency. of youth crime. and of school dropouts. i hope very much that our committeeand i say this to the chairman of our subcommitteewill require from the labor department a rather close report on how the proposal works out. we are  making the first step. as the senator has so properly said. i am hopeful that we shall be able to demonstrate. on the basis of facts. that to raise the age limit and to cut the figure for maintenance for those who study was improvident. having oriented the thinking in the minds of our own colleagues. i hope we may be able to take other steps which will really make this work as it should.
. one of the greatest object lessons as to how to deal with the transition to automation without putting the burden on the back of the worker is contained in an article published in the new york times this morning. it relates to force automation by the longshoremen on the docks of the pacific coast. we learn how a militant union has solved a difficult problem dealing with the automation of the docks. every senator. and every believer in free enterprise in this country. should read the article. it describes a wave of * the future. i ask unanimous consent that the entire article may be printed at this point in the record.
the reason why i am a cosponsor of this amendment is that i am the ranking miity member on the committee on labor and public welfare which has jurisdiction over education matters. the house of representatives committee on education and labor included in its aidtoeducation bill recently reported an amendment to title i of the elementary and secondary education act under which funds would go to dod schools. the senate subcommittee on education rejected this proposal on the grounds that dod schools are a unique problem and their fund requirements should be met through the defense appropriation rather than by inclusion in the elementary and secondary education act. therefore. we did  do so. however. i have looked into the problem of teacher recruitment and teacher compensation. as well as operation of the schools. and i feel confident that a case can be made against the reduction. i might point out to the senator. too. because i think it is important. that whatever may be the differences in the problems in department of defense schools. the fact is that upon the basis contemplated by the bill. they would be thirtysixth in the order of american school system average per pupil expenditures in the 50 states. the united states average. for example. of expenditures per pupil in schools is $533 a year. on this basis. at $455 average per pupil expenditures the department of defense schools would follow 35 states. the $533 average expenditure on the part of the total united states ranks  19. following only 18 states. it seems to me that there is some reasonable relationship of the order of magnitude. and the order of quality. for the department of defense school system. which these figures indicate. and that the cut made is too sharp and brings it down too low. finally. while there are advantages to teaching overseas and elsewhere in the department of defense schools. there is one salient disadvantage which i would like to testify as a witness. so to speak. i refer to the disadvantage of advancement and the upgrading of skills. teachers are generally paid more money if they have a masters degree or if they are a doctor of philosophy. teachers find it difficult when they are abroad to get this kind of recognition because they find it hard to get that kind of degree elsewhere. in addition. the possibility of upgrading ones assignment in a teaching post is very much limited by teaching in a department of defense school. and thus recruitment is difficult. there are compensating benefits. of course. in working abroad. in the excitement. in the interest of something new. and the glamor of working abroad. on balance. however. i felt that we had cut too much in this bill and put the u.s. department of defense schools too far down on the per pupil expenditure scale. and that the position taken by the house was justified as to what it should be. let me also say that in legislating the bill. both the senator from indiana and i do  feel impassioned about this as a parochial matter. it is one of common interest. it has special interest for my state or for his but rather is a broad question. however. perhaps it would be good to have some elucidation from the senator in charge of the billperhaps he does  wish to take time on it but i do think that the concept of thinking this through would perhaps cast some new light on the subject from an educational point of view which might commend itself to the senator in charge of the bill
there is a question concerning the rejectees for educational. physical. and other grounds. i am a member of a subcommittee of the committee on labor and public welfare. of which the senator from massachusetts was acting chairman during some hearings. the real problem that emerged is that those who do the poorest job of developing their future. who do  study. and who are  honest are most likely to be deferred while the boy who is a real 100percent american boy and makes his grades in school is the most likely to be drafted.
. i ask unanimous consent that. at its next printing. the name of the senator from oregon be added as a cojuly 10..1967 sponsor of the bill to amend the ecoic opportunity act of 1964 to provide day care for children of lowincome families in order to enable their parents or relatives to choose to undertake vocational training. basic education.. or employment.
. there is question about the sincerity of good faith or anxiety of all members of the conference committee to serve the people of our country as they saw the best needs of our people. balancing financial and substantive considerations in this very large appropriation bill. i pay a special tribute to the senator from new hampshire  as i am also the ranking miity member on the committee on labor and public welfare. this is a very important arrangement. so far as i am concerned in spite of his seniority. i would be ranking miity member on this particular subcommittee. he was indefatigable in his attendance at the conferences. the senator was there. i think. every time that i was there and any time there was need for any senator from our side of the aisle to be present. he was an active. wise. and vigorous participant and fought a tremendous battle for something he believed in very deeplyfacilities which were to be made available in school districts as provided in a particular section of ndea contained in the bill. in every way the senator from new hampshire was a most cooperative and most splendid colleague in respect to this bill.
. if i may have the attention of the senate. as this is  routine business. i would like to take a few minutes of the time of the senate to refer to the fact that this month will see the completion of the first year of service to the senate by my colleague. senator charles goodell. senator goodell came to us by appointment of gov. nelson rockefeller of new york after the terribly tragic passing of my former colleague. robert f. kennedy. with very big shoes to fill. senator goodell came up from the house of representatives. i am very proud to say. and it deserves saying. after 1 year of service. that rarely have the citizens of any state had so skilled and experienced a legislator represent them as a freshman senator. for charles goodell brings to the senate an educational and political background equal to any. a phi beta kappa graduate of williams college. he went on to earn a masters degree in government and a law degree from yale. a former college teacher. sunday school teacher. and semipro baseball player. he became chairman of the chautauqua county new york republican committee in 1958. and was elected to the house of representatives the following year. there he rose to a leadership position as chairman of the house republican committee on planning and research. and thus was able to bring with him to the senate the accumulated background of years of effective educational and political activity and leadership. i. personally. had great experience with him. as i held a senior position on the committee on labor and public welfare while he was on house education and labor committees. in drafting manpower and other critically important legislation.
. i introduce for appropriate reference a bill to amend the higher education facilities act to provide 66 percent federal construction matching funds for "developing institutions." defined in title i of the higher education act as colleges which. for financial or other reasons. are struggling for survival and are developing institutions themselves. these schools. for the most part. serve students from lower income families and have very little in the way of endowments or other financial resources to meet their needs. under existing law. all colleges. both established and developing institutions. receive 50 percent federal matching funds for construction of facilities. the education appropriation bill for the current fiscal year provides $43 million for grant construction assistance. typical of these developing institutions are the 68 private and 43 public higher education institutions with a predominantly negro student body. the median family income of the students attending these institutions is $3.900. the national median is $7.974. in 1968 and 1969. predominantly white colleges received $96 milion in grants from private philanthropy of which $11 million was for building and equipment. this is contrasted with the $4.6 million given to predominantly black schools of which some $150.000 was for construction and equipment. the office of education indicates that there are some 400 developing institutions in the nation. included among those which are located in new york state are the college of st. rose in albany. keuka college in keuka park. manhattan college in the bronx in new york city. and trocaire college in buffalo. by mr. javits: s1073. a bill to consolidate and improve certain programs for higher education. and for other purposes. referred to the committee on labor and public welfare.
. the work which has been done by senator stafford and senator cranston and the committee on labor and public welfare. of which i have the ho to be ranking member. is really remarkable. in finally getting an agreed position on this measure. which is so vital to many hundreds of thousands of americans. the senators have worked out something which  looks as though it is on the track to become law. it earns them the gratification and thanks of the hundreds of thousands who are affected by the vocational rehabilitation act and all their friends and relatives and the people generally. i wish to spread upon the record my great respect for the unbelievable diligence and perseverance and tact and delicacy and skill which have brought about what  seems to be an agreed upon result with the administration.
. i shall  detain the senate. but i do want to utter one word of rebuttal. deeds always speak louder than words. i offer right . so far as i am concerned. to cast my vote for any proposition which eliminates the hold harmless. let us actually go ahead and put the money whete the children arejust literally. i promise to vote and fight for that to the limit of my power. and i have in hand an amendment to that effect. which i will gladly submit. the fact is that we are trying to be understanding of the problems of school districts. including the school districts of states such as texas and kentucky. but i will take my chances. that is what the end is of the argument that senator bentsen and senator cook make. they say we should put the money where the children are. fine. join me in this amendmenthold harmless of any kind. but that takes the 1970 census instead of the 1960 census. and many other little gimmicks like that. because this money is going to school districts. according to what each is.  the states. the states are only a transmission belt. a passthrough. so even within their own states. there are many inequities. because this hold harmless is a state hold harmless.  a district hold harmless. the virtue of the quie amendment is that an educational district is held harmless to the extent of 85 percent instead of 100 percent state hold harmless. finally.  only have there been population shifts in this country but also emous income shifts. i will talk about my state. i ought to k it pretty well. what has happened to my state is that new york city has lost roughly 2 to 3 million highrate taxpayers and has gained 2 to 3 million. of whom a large proportion are welfare cases. that is  just in my state. some people still have the 19th century idea that new york is a plush den of iniquity. what about dallas and chicago and indianapolis and wilmington and san francisco and los angeles and philadelphia and boston. and every other large city in the country which has had exactly the same problem. sure. there are more poor. and this program is directed toward the poor. many other programs are dipped into by these very states. and they should be. and we pay the most. i attended a town meeting in my district. in rochester. on monday which. by the way. resulted in my missing 11 votes. i do  k how constituents figure that out. at the town meeting. a fellow got up and said: we pay $20 billion taxes. and i figure we on]v get back $1.9 billion. what are you doing about that. mr. big senator. that is a logical gripe. his figures do  have to be right. but they certainly are very high4. 5. or 6 to 1. so if a program is designed to help us deal with our problems. you are going to kk that one on the head. it is all a oneway street. i do  think that is fair. we will find some way to rebel with big taxpayers. one way to do it is the progressive income tax as contrasted with indirect taxation. some say that we would be better off in that case with a national sales tax. let everyone pay his tab. and then it will be much fairer. but i do  think that is good for our country. we. as senatorswe are sent here to use our heads--have to find some way out of it. i think the fair way out of it is to say that where we have a particular problem and a particular federal fund toward which that problem can be helped. we are  going to stand in the way. but that is what is attempted hereto stand in the way.
and whether they deserve to be made permanent programs. again i point out that the authors of this amendment. in one of the few changes they have made from simply the generic introduction of the administrations bill. have had to adopt a whole list of these categories in order to recognize the desirability of dealing with them on the basis which i have described. but. again. they have simply thrown them into the pot as something else to which to devote moneythe very contrary of the highly specialized approach which we have made in order to give them their due as experimental programs. but without any allencompassing responsibility as far as the total pot of money is concerned. finally. . the 30 percent transfer proposition. which is put forward as an advantage to this bill. is. in respect to those who could suffer from the 30 percent transfer provisions. a disadvantage. look. for example. at the handicapped. who could lose 30 percent. or vocational education. in which we have a burning interest. which could lose 30 percent. for all those reasons. i hope the substitute will be rejected and the senate will  simply throw onto the scrap heap the years of work which. in the educational aspects. resulted in the unanimous report of the committee on labor and public welfare.
. this paragraph provides that we can utilize the services of any individual for more than 90 days in any calendar year in the conduct of our official duties. unless that individual becomes an officer or an employee of the government or an officer or employee of the senate or agrees in writing to comply with the senate rules. these new rules of official conduct. the problem we have is this: many of us organize task forces. consisting of college professors. business people. and labor people to help us with given types of legislation and they do  necessarily complete their work in 90 days.
. i have remained here to take just a minute to pay my respects to and to express my appreciation for the very forthright and statesmanlike way in which my colleagues have handled the effort to recognize the unemployment in my state and in a number of other industrial states. this was one instance in which members did  run down the aisle and consult a chart and vote accordingly. but really lent their attention to the real difficulty of the country. the inequities which exist in the stresses and strains on the various states. and gave them some consideration in the formula ahich was adopted. i have spent many years here. struggling for just such an attitude. i could  fail to observe it and to thank my colleaguessenator burdick. senator stafford. senator muskie. and senator randolph. the chairmanfor the statesmanlike attitude which was here manifested. and to express my pleasure that my new colleague from new york handled the matter with such outstanding capacity as to have brought about this result. also. i state to the managers of the conference report that their provisions respecting school districts are extremely constructive and helpful. as is their understanding of the problems of counties. we  have a good many county governments in my state and other states. and they are concerned that. somehow or other. they will be overlooked and that they will fall between the stools. again. the conferees have shown an admirable understanding of the development of the different levels of u.s. government in the counties. and have taken account of their situation. it is a really statesmanlike job. and that. to my mind. is the highest word of praise for a legislative achievement. i am delighted that my colleagues have performed so magnificiently in regard to such a critical bill. and i thank them very much.
