. i do  for one moment question the sincerity of the senator from washington. i want to take this opportunity to pay tribute to him for the splendid work which he and the members of the committee handling the measure have done. i also wish to pay tribute to him for the splendid presentation of the bill which he made the other day when he covered the whole subject as reported from the senate banking and currency committee and which is  before us. i listened to that presentation very attentively. i heard nearly the whole presentation made in connection with this measure. and i was pleased to do so. however. i want to point out. in line with the senators last remarks. that there are real hardship exceptions. or exceptions of hardships. where individuals who pay a high rental are hit. i received a letter several weeks ago from some sisters in moderate circumstances. each one of whom is earning her own living. they live together in an apartment for which they pay $300 a month rent. they are very much disturbed over what may happen to them if any limitation of the sort proposed becomes law. they feel that if such a limitation is placed in the law it will undoubtedly mean that their rent will be increased at least 50 percent. or perhaps doubled. they are  in position to pay such an increase. they would find themselves virtually in the street in such event. and would  k what to do. there are plenty of exceptions of such nature. by the same token. inasmuch as the machinery  exists in the bill itself by which to take care of property owners faced with such circumstances as the senator referred to. and in view of the exceptions which exist. it seems to me the law should be left exactly as it has been during the last year. there should be limitation of this nature placed in it.
ial recommendations. as has ever come before us. i hope very much the senate banking and currency committee will give it prompt attention and that the country may have the benefit of the measure very promptly. because. while we are talking about antirecession measures. i think housing would have a direct effect on stimulating the ecoy and private enterprise. which is so. vital to a speedy recovery and to the country. this is a message which does a necessary and very commendable job in that direction.
