. at the request of the senior senator from min-. nesota and the junior senator from wisconsin i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the body of the record a letter from the senior senator from minnesota to chester bowles. administrator. office of price administration. dated september 18. 1944. relative to prices of cheese. . there being objection. the letter was ordered to be printed in the redord. as follows: washington. d. c.. september 18. 1944. mr. cessterowles. administrator. oflice of price administration. washington. d. c. dear mr.. bowles: thank you for your letter of september 6 which i have read with interest. i am sorry that i can agree with you on some of the matters covered by your letter. and particularly the following: 1. it is  correct to state that cheese of italian types is "generally consumed by people who have. or whose ancestors have immigrated from that area." parmesan cheese. for instance. is used in volumes -of millions of pounds by american processors of food and for general american consumption. blue cheese and gorgonzola are found on almost every train in the country. and the provolone cheese is used in a great many american eating places for sandwiches. 2. if you look at the emous volume of cheese bf italian varieties imported from south america since 1940 you will come to realize that in a large measure the supply that used to come from italy has been substitutdd by argentina. 3. the statistics quoted in your letter do  agree with the figures which the ital.an ch3ese industry furnished to the committee on reciprocal information in 1939. a copy of which may be obtained from the tariff commission. 4. the justifleation which you give in your letter relative to the reasons which prompted your office to case a roll back on cheese of italian varieties does  hold true if you take into consideration the following facts: (a) the largest increase in the production of any single type of foreign cheese is found in the cream cheese which has increased more than 50 percent from 1941 to 1944. the volume of production of cream cheese is  tnice that of italian cheese of all types. the cream cheese producers are the ones that have diverted to their production the largest volume of milk from cheddar. they are. therefore. the biggest offenders. (b) hing has been done tocurtail the price of camembert. liederkranz. and brie. which are selling at prices that permit a return to the manufacturer far in excess of the one permitted either the cheddar or the italian cheese producer. in addition to this. it must be said that these cheeses are produced almost exclusively by integrated cheese companies which are  only capable but should be willing to make some sacrifice in ths emergency. (c) the most critical dairy item at this time is butter. produced in large volumes in my state. and  cheddar cheese. please take into account the fact that the manufacturers of cream cheese are using butterfat equivalent to 40.000.000 pounds of butter. while the producers of italian cheese. at the level of 1942 production. are using less than 15.000.000 pounds of butterfat. i would. indeed. be very much interested in having an explanation of this matter for the benefit of my constituents. the producers of butter. 5. please permit me to call to your attention that the senate subcommittee on small industry has received the assurance that this matter would be attended to  later than 3 weeks from august 25. the italian cheese industry and the dairy industry can continue to sustain the terrific losses caused by said rollback for much longer time. 6. i have taken due and proper ice and sincerely wish to thank you for your promise that "if these accounting studies reflect that the manufacturers of italiantype cheeses are  in a competitive position for the available milk supply. necessary adjustments in the maximum prices will be made." time is the essence of this matter and i hope and trust that. by this time. you have finished your cost studies. if you have. i trust that necessary adjustments in the maximum prices will be made at the earliest possible moment. i believe it my duty to inform you that leading dairy product manufacturers and numerous dairy farmers have. during the last few weeks. expressed to me their serious and earnest concern about impending sur.pluses of dairy products. and what action the government will take to overcome them. the welfare of the dairy farmers who have done such a marvelous job during the depression and during the war emergency concerns me deeply. i have. therefore. looked about for facts and information and i find the following: (a) milk powder is piling up very rapidly and in volume far in excess of civilian. armed forces. and lendlease requirements. many concerns in my state are already begging for new avenues of distribution. (b) the evaporated milk industry seems to be in the same position. consumption of evaporated milk. because of past and . present rationing. and because the civilian seems to have lost the habit of using it. is decreasing. with the current production of 75.000.000 cases per year. and a mal civilian consumption of about 55.000.000. when the war ends and new zealand. australia. and argentina will again absorb the foreign market for dairy products. the fluid milk. longer being evaporated. must be diverted to something else. (c) i am told that new zealand has large inventories of cheese that must be consumed or be lost. that the mediterranean basin has certain varieties of cheese of long curing ready for shipment. here. that argentina has warehouses bulging with cheese that must be sold. our present export of cheese for lendlease will. we hope. be stopped or reduced with the collapse of germany. what are we going to do with the cheese that we have been exporting. we have increased our cheese production since 1940 to the extent of 60 percent. the rationing and the various orders which are hampering and disturbing the mal and historical distribution of cheese have reduced the consumption of cheese and are depriving the rural population of the country from the possibility of receiving its customary volume of cheese. most of the cheese orders are tailored to suit the wagon jobber distributors and completely ige the rural consumers. this will inevitably injure and reduce the per capita consumption of cheese in the nation. there is doubt in my mind that by the end of 1945 we will be confronted by a large and damaging surplus of cheese. we must face this problem before it is too late. 7. concluding: during the last 30 years. more than onehalf of the cheese of all varieties imported to america was cheese of italian varieties. this importation kks at our doors again. it will be up to the italian cheese industry in america to stem this importation. to do this our domestic industry must be strong financially and adequately implemented. to weaken this industry either at the level of production or at the level of distribution will mean to throw open our domestic market to dairy products from foreign competitors. this must  happen. you have the opportunity of rendering the dairy industry a service of great importance by preserving the production of italian cheese in america. this industry was ruined by the shortsighted policies put into effect in the period that followed the last war. it took 20 years to correct said mistakes and it probably could never have been corrected had it  been for the assistance of the r. f. c. you will oblige me if you will let me k when the protest filed by this industry will be heard. sincerely.
. i think my distinguished colleague. the senator from maine . ks that i am very much in favor of the reciprocal trade program and that i am very strongly in favor of increasing the foreign trade of the united states. nevertheless. i believe every senator must be grateful to a colleague who does a thorough job in presenting a case. for it is only by understanding the respective points of view of our colleagues that this august body is able to make progress. i should like to ask my colleague from maine a question. i appreciate that he has stated his side of the case. just as on occasion other senators. including myself. have stated what we regard as our side of the case. heretofore we have referred to the importance of foreign trade. as indicated by the number of persons who find work because of it. which result in exports which aggregate an estimated $4.500.000.000 in value. we realize the important bearing of foreign trade on the security interests of the united states. and we realize how large a part exports play in the aggregate production of united states industries. as well as in connection with the interests of the consumers. who are vitally concerned with being able to purchase the best at the cheapest prices. all those interests and concerns and activities have combined to make our country great. briefly stated. that is the other side of the case. i assure the senator from maine that i am deeply concerned when american industries are hurt. and i am deeply sensitive to that situation. industries which are hurt have two ways by means of which they can deal with their problem. one is by building up a domestic market in the articles as to which american industries are supreme. for example. withstanding the importation of a considerable number of foreign manufactured automobiles. the united states domestic automobile industry absolutely dominates the united states market. and does an emous business. that is also true of certain branches of the textile industry. the products of certain branches of our textile industry can be displaced by exports. for those domestic products are sufficiently attractive to dominate the domestic market. all of us are concerned with those of the american people who are hurt by imports. we are also vitally interested in having the domestic market stimulated by the development of specialties and other lines of production by means of which the american people will be able to help themselves. in short. we are interested in selfhelp and in mutual cooperation. does my colleague think it might be usefullet me say that one of the points he made was in connection with this matter. and therefore i refer to it to have the congress enact a statute by means of which the government would help american industries which have been hurt to reconvert. retool. or reshape their operations. by means of loans and technical assistance of the kind which was provided. following world war ii. to small business. particularly. which had been engaged in the war effort. and had to reconvert to peacetime activities. we did  want small business to go broke. similarly. i do  want the textile industry to go broke. instead. i want it to flourish. to prosper. and to be great.
i am deeply grateful to the senator from indiana for his very kind words. they are most encouraging. i wish also to pay tribute to the senator from indiana for his generosity and his tremendous cooperation in the ecoic committee of the nato parliamentarians. to which he graciously has referred. and of which i have the ho to act as chairman. there are very few things which promise to help the american taxpayer as much as collaboration with european nations in carrying some of the responsibility for foreign aid. on which we have been working. that possibility is tremendously enhanced by their newfound ecoic strength. which they are experiencing in exactly the kind of ecoic cooperation which i am recommending to our country. we do  even seem to be looking at them and taking the lesson which they are teaching us. in 1 year their internal trade has risen 40 percent. because they have found the secret of a market which reduces internal tariff barriers.
