 determines that such assistance. sales. or deliveries are required for reasons of overriding national interest and so reports to the congress. senator mathias will introduce similar legislation in the other body today. as a joint resolution. this legislation will  only convey the sense of congress. it will also have the force of law. it is important that members understand the urgent need for rapid action on this resolution. an editorial in the july 5 washington post traces the background of our policy regarding arms deliveries to pakistan. from my understanding of this editorial. several points of interest regarding my resolution emerge: first. the department of state until late june 1971. was convinced that following the eruption of civil war in east pakistan on march 25. 1971. the united states had been able to bring to a halt all arms deliveries to pakistan. second. on the strength of this conviction. the department of state repeatedly and formally stated to the congress and the press that arms had been or were being provided to pakistan on or after march 25. 1971. third. in all likelihood without the kledge of administration officials at the policy level. on may 8. 1971. the sonderbaus. a pakistani ship carrying arms still in the supply pipeline as of march 25. 1971. set sail for pakistan from new york. fourth. on june 22. a second pakistani ship carrying u.s. arms still in the supply pipeline set sail for pakistan from new york. at this point solid investigative reporting by the new york times uncovered the existence of the supply pipeline loophole. fifth. on july 2. a third pakistani ship carrying supply pipeline arms left new york for pakistan. sixth. four to five more ships are scheduled to leave in july and august and even then one can be certain tne supply pipeline will be unclogged and exhausted. by its decision. still in force. to suspend further arms sales to pakistan. i believe the united states demonstrated that it was adopting the only policy appropriate for an outside power with respect to the tragic civil war in east pakistan. namely. a policy of neutrality. interference. and involvement. in my judgment. the important step which we had to take from the standpoint of our military sales policy was this halt in all further sales. but we can at the same time ige the diplomatic and political significance of the pipeline deliveries. in an article in the new york times former ambassador to india chester bowles warns on july 6 of the possible sequence of events which may soon confront us. it is: first. india "in a desperate effort to cut off the flow of refugees. return the present refugees to their own homes. and prevent the establishment of an extreme leftwing government in east pakistan" may move troops into east pakistan. second. pakistan may then be expected to reply by attacking india in kashmir and the indian punjab. third. china may deliver an ultimatum to india. fourth. the soviet union may then support india to ward off china and the escalation may continue. in this scenario. which ambassador bowles believes is a "very real possibility." could the united states ultimately avoid involvement. i believe the minimal step which the united states must take is to halt all arms deliveries to pakistan including those deliveries in the supply pipeline which have  left our shores. with each one of our actions we must convey conviction that we favor an immediate standdown in the level of violence in east pakistan. in spite of our hopes that the strife will soon end and thus permit the united states to avoid some of these painful policy decisions. the july 6 new york times reported that bengali insurgents have  kked out the dacca electrical power station. this suggests that resistance is far from ended. it may continue for months. perhaps years. i insert the washington post editorial and ambassador bowles observations in th. 7ecord at this point: [from the new york times. july 6. 19711
first off. let me say one thing. because it also partially responds to the distinguished senator from south dakota. there is complete support by miss frances knight. the head of the passport office. and i met with her in my office several days ago. as a matter of fact. it is something i have been fighting for for 8 years since i first came to the congress. . the average person who walks into the new york office from the time he is standing there at the door has to wait 4 hours at the door. i am  talking about the person from connecticut driving down to new york. parking the car. doing all the business and getting to the office. but from the time he is at the office. a 4hour wait.
s quest for strategic arms limitation. the senate can facilitate serious and constructive diplomacy in the salt negotiations which resume shortly. senate resolution 211 can be an essential vehicle in this effort. i applaud the committees enlightened contribution to this campaign.
. my distinguished colleague from new york has called attention to a report on the question of voluntary foreign aid affecting parcelpost shipments. i am very happy to straighten that point out for the .gentleman from new york . as well as for the gentlemanfrom michigan . the gentleman from new york . andthe gentleman from wiscon.sin .. and perhaps other members who have introduced similar bills. the only thing we intended to say in our report is that on a purely financial basis. the idea of taking money out of funds appropriated for foreign. relief for .the purpose of compensating for free parcel post did - pay in dollars and cents. . the question of policy or the question of humanitarianism or the question of whether we should encourage in an affirmative way the sending of these parcels. because it is a good thing like the voice of america program or a similar policy approach. is  at all dealt with and is entirely within the realm of discretion. all we do is analyze the purely financial aspects of the operation. i hope that will clarify the matter for my colleagues. i would feel perfectly free myself to vote for a suitable bill on this subject. our report is  intended to be and is  an obstruction on the road for the consideration of these bills entirely on their merits.
. i should like to speak relative to what occurred in this chamber when. led by the miity leader. the senator from new hampshire . the senior senator from new york . the senator from massachusetts . the senator from california . the senator from wisconsin . the senator from kentucky . the senator from missouri . the senator from illis . and the senator from minnesota . there was a great protest against our governments backing sanctions against israel. there  have been second thoughts on sanctions. constructive thoughts. dealing with the danger to national survival which confronts israel and has confronted her since hostilities began on october 29. 1956. the key appears to be united nations actions in reference to its ability to maintain the peace. and united states willingness to implement them. both inside and outside the united nations. a hopeful proposal is pending relating to the gulf of aqaba and the security of transit. through the international waters. one of the two great issues raised in the debate on sanctions against israel. we have a right to hope that there will be a solution along the lines proposed with respect to the gulf of aqaba. we also have a right to hope that our government will  be swayed by threats from present efforts to get a solution. but will look at the alternatives of breaches of -the peace. chaos. and more communist interference in the tinderbox that is the middle east. we also have hope that our government. along the lines of the moral principles to be applied with respect to the gulf of aqaba. may also present a suggested solution to the problem involving the gaza strip. i think the debate on monday last at least made an important contribution toward putting our feet. at long last. on the constructive road to the establishment of international peace in this very troubled area.
. to come to agreement with the major users of the canal. based upon the six principles adopted by the united nations general assembly on october 13. 1956. in which egypt itself concurred. thus. egypt fails to give the major users dependable assurance of effective transit through the suez canal as an international waterway. guaranteed by the constantile convention of 1888 and by international usage. on the contrary. we are being given every reason to believe at this time that 3 of these 6 principles will  be observed by egypt: that "there should be free and open transit through the canal without discrimination". and "the operation of the canal should be insulated from the politics of any country". and "the manner of fixing tolls and charges should be decided by agreement between egypt and the users." even egypts 22 million peopleand i believe this danger in suez is the work of colonel nassers government.  of egypts peoplemust respect the right of 10 times that number who would be directly endangered in west europe by the use of the suez canal as a political instrument by colonel nasser. the government of egypt in accepting the six principles for the operation of the suez canal established by the united nations security council recognized that to link the operation of the suez canal to the politics of egypt was incompatible with the international character of the canal. and the assurances as to its consistent availability which the major users ought to have. of free europes 3 million barrel daily oil supply. 70 percent. or 2.1 million barrels a day. is drawn from the mideast and by 1955 free europe will need to draw an estimated 3.9 million barrels daily. 90 percent of its estimated requirement of 4.3 million barrels daily. from the same source. of the amount presently needed. well over 1.250.000 barrels daily move mally through the canal. the balance moves through pipelines. experience with sabotage in syria of the vital pipelines through that country and iraq also shows the need for alternate routes. alternate means to connect the oilproducing areas and the mediterranean sea and assure europe vitally needed oil supplies are available. the four alternatives are: first. the pipeline of the iraq petroleum corp. complex. the subject of meetings in london recently by 8 leading oil companies to construct a pipeline estimated to cost $500 million. tapping mideast oil sources in iraq. kuwait. and iran. with an outlet at the turkish port of iskenderon. second. a plan to doubletrack the present saudiarabian pipeline terminating in leba. estimated to cost $200 million. third. a plan to build a large volume pipeline32 inchesfrom israels port of elath. on the gulf of aqaba. through israel to the mediterranean. estimated to cost $120 million. and. fourth. construction of 100.000ton tankers. which we are  beginning. to round the cape of good hope. this resolution also suggests that our government state its willingness to aid in effectuating the alternate route program. we could join in seeking internationalization of the pipeline by agreement with the countries through which they pass. thus giving them greater protection against political developments. second. we could undertake guaranties against rationalization and currency convertibility. expropriation. and war. of investments made by united states enterprises in such new pipelines. such guaranties are already possible under the mutual security act. third. we could back up. in accordance with the policy already indicated by our government. increased tanker construction and tanker use. already 100.000ton tankers to round the cape of good hope are under construction by united states shipbuilders. these are some ways in which we could help. it must be ed that we are dealing with good investments.  with grants in aid. it is already estimated authoritatively that the suez canal must be supplemented anyhow to carry increased tonnage based on increased needs. the way to do it is  by establishing alternate routes to protect the free world against egyptian politics and communist machinations directed at the jugular vein through which the oil flows. the suez canal. if this resolution is adopted. it does  mean a boycott of the suez canalit only means that the senate having duly ed the dangersand the need for alternativesasks the executive department to develop plans and recommendations to meet them before we face aher crisis. it must be recognized that traffic will move through the suez canal as it has already begun to move. but in our action to eliminate trade in strategic goods with communist china we also did  have 100 percent success but we have etheless been very effective. colonel nassers regime is endangering the free world. force has been properly ruled out to correct the situation. but there is reason why ecoic measures should  be applied which will in due course materially reduce the reliance upon the suez canal and colonel nasser of the very major users he defies and endangers. as to colonel nasser. it seems clear that the chauvinism and willingness to do business with communists which have characterized his government should  be permitted to endanger the security of the free world. we respect the dignity of peoples and their right to nationhood. we must at the same time insist on compliance with the obligations of the united nations charter by egypt. one of its members. on respect for international law. on the will to maintain peace. the capability of a nation to exercise sovereignty requires also respect for the rights of other nations peoples and for the human rights of its own people. otherwise. the free world must protect itself and. as its leaders. we must help. the oil which moves through suez is vital to the individual nations of western europe and. therefore. to the integrity of nato. any hope of atomic energy produced power in europe relieving materially this situation is estimated to be 10 or 20 years away. accordingly. we have a direct stake involving the security of the united states to find alternate means to connect the oceans of the east and the west. especially as to the mideasts vitally needed oil supplies. the countries in the canal users association who are most directly concerned in the transit through the suez canal and with which we must work are: united kingdom. france. netherlands. italy. way. west germany. australia. new zealand. turkey. iran. sweden. portugal. spain. and denmark.
it is typical of the senator. when he addresses himself to the subject of foreign policy. withstanding the almost understated way in which he does it. that he makes a contribution to the country on the highest level. it has been my great good fortune to be able to cooperate with the senator from kentucky in these endeavors. in which he and i hold such parallel views. i should like to see if we can. perhaps. together sum up what he has said. what i have said. and what is the quintessence of thinking so far developedat least by persons like the senator from kentucky and myself in this debate. which was sparked. i may say.  only by khrushchevs newest ultimatum. but also by the suggestion of the majority leader that perhaps a resolution of this difficulty might be found in some other way. through the creation of a free city of berlin. as i understand the senator from kentucky. and based upon my own concepts of this problem. i believe we would agree upon these four points: first. negotiate so long as the russians in good faith are willing to negotiate. there are some things which are negotiable. we do  believe that our presence in berlin is negotiable. but the terms and conditions under which that presence is administered may be negotiable. and the door should never be closed to that possibility. whether it is done in berlin or in the united nations or in whatever forum seems to be most congenial. provided that our allies. the united kingdom and france. are kept fully informed and are consulted. as direct parties to any negotiations. at the same time. let us  close the door to the possibility that there may be some ways in which negotiation can be effected without. at the same time. negotiating what is negotiable. to wit. our presence in berlin. as i understand it. but keeping our eye on the ultimates. whatever may be the forms which are employed to clear traffic. whatever may be the color of the caps of the particular officers who are standing at the particular gates which clear traffic. the ultimate point is that we do have complete access. that our presence is unimpeded. that west berlin is able to operate as a free society. in the way it is operating today. i do  believeand i say this as a lawyerthat there are any forms of law which the russians could use. through the east germansand the east germans are hing but the alter ego of the soviet unionto adopt any "peace treaties" or anything else. second. in order to speak with the proper voice and proper determination. we need military strength. i join with the distinguished senator from kentucky and applaud him for the suggestion that in a serious time like this. all of us should have the most complete briefings upon this subject.  simply from the committees. in whom we have great confidence. but who. after all. can discharge our responsibilities to the people of our own states. let us understand that we are  talking here about light matters. the state of new york has a population of 17 million. i am one of its senators. new york has the greatest port in the world and the largest city in the world. in terms of power and magnitude. new york is very much bigger than most countries in the world. so when we talk here as we do. i think what we are considering is very sound. i congratulate the senator from kentucky for being so clear and realistic on the question of military strength.
. i submit. on behalf of myself and the senator from pennsylvania . an amendment to* s. 1062. the administrations transportation bill to provide for the strengthening and improving of the national transportation system. this amendment would specifically allow financially hardpressed u.s. railroads to apply to the world bank for financial and technical assistance. under section 10(d) of the bill as presently written. the secretary of commerce is authorized to guarantee loans from "any public or private financing institution" to aid common carriers subject to the interstate commerce act. but there is doubt as to whether the world bank would qualify under this language. this amendment would make it clear that u.s. railroads may apply to the international bank for reconstruction and developmentworld bankfor financial and technical assistance to help carry out a comprehensive plan for rehabilitation and modernization. the amendment would accomplish this objective by expressly including the world bank within the bills definition of "public financing institutions" to which the railroads may apply for loans. without the amendment. some doubt may exist as to whether a world bank loan would be eligible for guarantee under section 10 of the administrations bill. the present ad hoc approach of patchwork solutions to the railroads financial problems must be remedied by a longrange comprehensive planning program. under a version of section 10(d) which was in the law between 1958 and june 30. 1963. and which would be revived under the commerce department by the bill. 14 american railroads received approximately $220 million in assistance from both public and private financing institutions within the united states. however. it is apparent that such financial assistance has  by itself solved railroad difficulties. i believe that the expertise in the transportation field for which the world bank is well kn. and the banks stringent requirements for longrange and comprehensive planning as a condition to financial assistance. will significantly contribute to the solution of railroad financial problems. the idea of utilizing the world bank to assist u.s. railroads was first incorporated in legislative form in h.r. 8897. the railroad redevelopment act of 1963. recently introduced in the house of representatives by my distinguished new york colleague. congressman ogden reid. a careful examination of this concept had also been made by mr. arne wiprud. formerly director of the new york state office of transportation and presently a consultant to new york state in transportation matters. the world bank would be a particularly appropriate institution to assist u.s. railroads because of its long experience in extending loans for the rehabilitation of railroads. since its establishment. the bank and its affiliate. the international development associationidahave loaned $1.171.300.000 to foreign countries to construct. improve and modernize their railroads. in fiscal year 196162 the bank financed project and sector assistance studies in a number of countries. including a general transportation study in colombia. a highway and transport study in peru. a railroad survey in bolivia. and a general transportation study in ecuador. although the world bank has never made a loan to the united states. which is its largest stockholder with 31 percent of its capital. it has made a number of significant loans to industrialized countries for purposes of modernizing railroads. including $80 million to japan in 1961 to aid the japanese national railways in the construction of a modern. highspeed 320mile railroad line between tokyo and osaka. $7.500.000 to france in 1954 for railroad modernization. $61 million to mexico in 1959 for railroad rehabilitation. and 9 loans to india between the years 1949 and 1961 totaling $379 million for purchase of diesel locomotives. for electrification of 1.300 miles of track. for acquisition of largecapacity freight cars and for improvements in rail operations. loans from the world bank to member countries for use on railroads have never been in default and have provided a basis for significant improvement of their railroad systems. since there is legal bar either in the banks charter or in u.s. law against such assistance to american railroads. our railroads should have the same right to obtain loans as those in other member nations do. the world banks vast resources and skills in transportation planning should  be denied to this countfys railroads. one of the u.s. lines most in need of financial assistance is the new york. new haven & hartford railroad. which serves as the only direct rail link between southern new england and the south and as a principal rail link between southern new england and the west. the maintenance of the new havens operation is essential to all the new england states. the assistance given by the federal government. under the  expired predecessor of section 10 (d) of s. 1062. in the form of interstate commerce commission guarantees for loans totaling $35.600.000. has enabled the new haven at least to maintain its operational capacity. but. just as with many other u.s. railroads. the financial assistance already received has been part of only a patchwork approach as contrasted with the comprehensive planning utilized by the world bank. at this point. the continued life of the new haven and other new .england railroads is dependent upon a comprehensive approach which will assure complete modernization. by tying in with the capital and technical expertise of the world bank. the guarantee provision in section 10 of s. 1062 will gain new life and new meaning for hardpressed u.s. railroads. for the commuters and shippers who use them. and for the ecoy of the nation. i urge the commerce committee to give this new concept its prompt consideration and to hold hearings on this amendment separately or in. connection with other legislation before it even if the committee decides  to take further action on the underlying bill. i believe the concept is worthy of the committees careful study. i ask unanimous consent that the amendment be printed in the record.
. the main point is that we are  appropriating approximately $3.5 billion a year for foreign aid. and that is probably somewhere near the feasible limit of what we can appropriate from public funds. when we consider everything else that everyone in the world is doing. foreign aid amounts to approximately $8 billion a year. we have approved $3 to $4 billion a year. it is my deep conviction that the only way in which to make this up is by a private enterprise system. the way in which to achieve that kind of result from a private enterprise system is by a federally chartered investment company such as comsat. the german development corporation. and similar organizations established in the united kingdom and the netherlands. i have proposed that in the peace by investment corporation. as provided in the amendment of the senator from arkansas. military aid is the one road to be traveled by ecoic aid. in my judgment. we are within sight of achieving our goal. as represented in foreign aid. provided we have the fortitude and the initiative to continue to carry through with aid from the great public resources which we have used. the great private resources ought to be set to work on this aspect of the struggle for peace.
my interest is concerned in efforts to develop ecoic cooperation between greece and turkey in a very official way. it has been very substantially financed and is rather far advanced and has the tremendous support of both countries. i should like to say to the peoples of both greece and turkey that i k of hing that would be more sure to torpedo what i am and supporters of this project are trying to dowhich i am doing with a very full heart and in the deep belief that it is the right thing to do. if the present government of greece does  give us confidence in its good faith that it is really going to travel the road back to constitutional and representative governmentwith all deliberate speedit will frustrate anything that i or any other friend of greece and turkey are trying to do in this field. the senator ks. i believe. that we have a very great design which may prove to be aher tva for power irrigation. and land reclamation projects on the thracian border between greece and turkey involving the mericerros river. it is a severalhundredmilliondollar project. it will need world bank cooperation. it will need united nations cooperation. it will need the cooperation of the countries concerned in the area. it will all be hopeless unless this kind of progress is made
yes. i think secure boundaries mean boundaries which are based upon what has been learned from the events that preceded the 1967 sixday war. at that time. a number of things were learned. one. that egypt did  regard the sinai desert as a mutually acceptable demilitarized buffer. president nasser blew the whistle. and the united nations forces. upon which there had been so much reliance. simply faded away. then. he moved in massive armored forces. second. that the general acceptance which secretary of state dulles thought he had gotten acceptedthat israel should have an assured exit and entry to its port of elath. through the strait of tiran. we found that was  true. one fine day president nasser declared that the straits of tiran were closed to israel. the world powers failed to make "free passage" good even though the united states tried to enlist a multinational force to break the blockade of tiran. in addition. egypt does  own the gaza strip. but merely occupied it in the 194849 fighting. there is some historical question about the sinai itself. the simplistic approach of "get israel out of everything which belongs to egypt" is just a slogan. to substitute for reason and to substitute for negotiation of the areas of danger. i am  even speaking of the golan heights. or the west bank. and the very kty problem of jerusalem. for many years i have been deeply interested in this whole problem. i hasten to add. obviously. we will  be guided by what the internal politics of israel may compel upon a democratic government there. we understand that. and the israelis themselves understand that. they have made it clear that they are going to have to "give" something let us remember that if hostilities break out. on the record israel has done a great deal better than the arab states.  that that should be a matter of vainglory. or a basisnecessary for policy. but it should moderate any sense of insecurity we feel when egypt says it is  going to renew the ceasefire or the russians say that "anything can happen." if anything happens. it may be more dangerous for the arabs than for israel. but i think the answer. as the senator is so correct to say. is just to keep our "cool." we k that neither party can get all it wants to. but we certainly are under necessity or even compulsion to makewhich is what this is all aboutisrael throw in on arab demands.
. i have joined in cosponsoring this amendment because of my experience in a trip that i took to the sahel area about a year ago. the principal starvation area in africa. i k of e of our programs which is more basically productive than this one because it deals with the fundamental ability of people to look after their own needs. i do  believe the world is going to starve. i think it is just inefficiently .utilizing its food potential resources. and this is an effort to correct that great imbalance. if there is any element of our foreign aid program that is right. it is this one. i hope very much that looking down the road as to where this world is going. we will give it the amount that it needs as moved by the senator from minnesota.
