. i have an interesting piece of news for you. i obtained from the office of international trade last saturday aher list of export licenses issued between february 11 and 27. i948 .19490 among other things. i find licenses have been issued for the export of 257 barrels of motor gasoline. 643 barrels of kerosene. 7.500 barrels of gas oil and distillate fuel oil to the fiji islands. for 1.262 barrels of kerosene and 875 barrels of gas oil and distillate fuel oil to tahiti. apparently. the grantors of these licenses are  a particle abashed by the reactions to their actions on licenses to these two tropical islands between january 1 in fact. they go even further. they  have granted licenses for 193 barrels of aviation gas. 39 barrels of motor gas. and 875 barrels of gas oil and distillate fuel oil to samoa. 1.539 barrels of motor gas to morocco. 200 barrels of kerosene and 300 barrels of gas oil and distillate fuel oil to cook island. and 2.571 barrels of kerosene and 1.672 barrels of gas. oil and distillate fuel oil to new caledonia. a study of these licenses as  issued shows that a total of 17.419 barrels of kerosene has been licensed for export to british honduras. costa rica. denmark. el salvador. mexico. and sweden beyond the amount set up in the revised country export quotas on february 19. possibly this can be recaptured from the reserve item although it would be a very peculiar way to handle it. the most interesting result is that ii.. censes have been issued to february 27 for 73.921 more barrels of gas oil and distillate fuel oil than is set up in that reserve item. mr. bruce testified before the house interstate and foreign commerce committee that the department anticipated issuing licenses to the full amount of the country export quota in each instance. therefore. it is impossible for me to understand where this deficit is going to be handled. but to make their performancee more intriguing. a study of the sources of these exports shows that they must come from the reserve items and you will find that licenses have been issued to february 27 for 29.661 more barrels of kerosene than is set up in that reserve and 59.645 more. barrels of gas oil and distillate fuel oil than is set up in that reserve. i do  k how the department thinks it can unscramble this omelet. i suspect it does  want to do so. rather. it is my guess that if it can urge the use of these licenses before congress can act to close the doors. it thinks it can then fool the congress and the public by simply saying that it is too late to do anything about it. i have asked for the departments advice on this point. and i have also requested information as to how many licenses issued last year are still available. i wish i could also find out what the departments plans are to as the issuance of licenses this month. but i am afraid i wil. have e of this information in time for you to consider it while we are debating the wisdom of embargoing shipments from the gulf coast. but i submit that these facts. in the absence of some explanation. constitute the best kind of a reason why congress must act . i confirmed with mr. bruce in committee this n his statement made to me over the telephone thursday that the legislative and the executive branches have  reached an impasse. i asked him what he meant by that and if it was a fair inference to draw that the congress must accept the responsibility by acting in these premises. he was hesitant to say that he meant exactly that. but he promised me he would furnish me a full statement. and he hoped to have it by tomorrow morning. mr. bruce has been good egh to furnish me with this statement over the telephone. as follows: "i felt the executive and legislative branches had reached an impasse with regard to the further curtailment of the export of petroleum products for this quarter. the executive branch does  intend to make a further reduction in this quarter in this regard." mr. bruce was concerned that this might sound abrupt. but i think we can all  only appreciate his position but be grateful to him for his frankness. even though we disagree violently with the policy of the executive branch. i do want to add that mr. bruce has always been ready to listen to any statement i have felt i should make and has answered every question i have asked. i have pressed these points only because of the fundamental disagreement between the department and myself as to its responsibilities toward our domestic ecoy and our own citizens. i still feel that it has given much too great weight to the allegations of needs in other countries in the face of kn facts in this country. perhaps that is inevitable under the present operation of controls. if so. i think it should be corrected promptly. and i urge upon you that we should accept full responsibility at this time for correcting or curing this mistaken attitude on the part of the department. unless we are willing to do so. we k that we are gambling the security. the comfort. and the health of our own people. and. beyond that. while the department is responsible for past loss of production. we shall be responsible for any lessening of production which may still result. only this last week end has brought aher cold wave to the midwest and. to a lesser degree. to the theast. it is too soon to appraise the full effects of this weather. but it must be obvious to all. even those who enjoyed 83degree weather here saturday. that it has made a further inroad on the scanty supplies available in these other areas. i sincerely believe that the only insurance we can provide is to build up our stocks  to the extent of these 599.000 barrels other countries have said they did  need and do  want. we have the oils. we have the tankers. we have the storage. all we lack is the action we can take together this week in reversing this unwise decision until we can get those oils into storage in the theast and midwest. i hope very much that the committee on interstate and foreign commerce will report out to the floor house joint resolution 323 with certain limitations. i think  it is very definitely clear that we should exempt lubricating oils. i also think that we would be wise if we exempted aviation gasoline. and i give as my reason for the latter thought that our international air carriers have to draw on supplies of aviation gasoline which are deposited in other countries. and they would be forced to carry a double load in order to get back here if they did  have that available. in the second place. i think it would be advisable for us to limit this to the gulf coast rather than to the west coast. i have examined the subject of licenses granted for the west coast and find they are relatively insignificant. the main point is the licenses that have been granted and are being used out of the gulf coast ports. i have been asked by many whether i proposed to make this a mandatory and complete embargo. my reply has been that i see other course. if we are allowed to vote on this legislation soon after tomorrow i will be the first to come to this floor and urge the repeal of the legislation just as soon as we can clear four tanker loads out of gulf coast ports for east coast ports. i think congress  is faced with a very real responsibility. and i am most hopeful that  only will the interstate and foreign commerce committee report out such a resolution but that the committee on rules will report out a rule at the first opportunity. so we can straighten this matter out. i think that is definitely the most important challenge before us at this time. i submit several more wires and letters i have received from competent men in the oil industry. i call your particular attention to mr. mccollums statement that "in our opinion diversion of tankers from foreign destinations to east coast ports will  jeopardize import possibilities." i want to emphasize mr. gambles report thatwe estimate that  all of these available vessels will be required to meet our east coast requirements in march and to the extent  needed they will be assigned elsewhere to meet our other requirenents. that is a clear warning that if we do  act . some of these tankers will go into foreign service this month instead of making three or four voyages th of folk carrying the fuel  in gulf coast ports to ample storage in the theast and midwest. certainly the continuance of four tankers on east coast service for one voyage. if the demand on all these tankers eases. will  upset the delicate balance so many have in their minds. if they are  scheduled  for foreign runs in march. how. in heavens name. will their runs th upset things. i can help but think that is the figment of an overheated imagination. for one. i still insist that our first and primary duty fs to see that we keep this ecoy running and the people who run it able to operate it. the navy offers help. it has bcund my hands against disclosing its report to you. but. although i have a very great admiration for the conservation work of the navy. i can understand this de.1950 cision. we have been told that the navy was committed to carrying petroleum to occupied areas. it hasgiven me a list of 38. all but three are listed in the register of tank vessels of the world compiled and published by the standard oil co. of new jersey as owned and operated by the navy. the volume is in the congressional library. so there is hing secret about that. all are over 16.000 dead weight tons and most over 18.000 dead weight tons. the former have a cargo carrying capacity of 107.408 barrels. the latter have a capacity of 143.374 barrels. we k that on january 2. 2.470.000 barrels of petroleum products were authorized for shipment to greece and the occupied areas of japan and the ryukus islands and that on february 10. this was cut back to* 970.000 barrels. satisfactory explanation of the original allotment has ever been given but obviously it released 1.500.000 barrels in terms of shipping space. all we need and all we ask is that someone carry 559.000 barrels from the gulf to east coast. that would mean four short voyages of the small tankers or five of the bigger ones. instead of the long voyages schedules for greece and japan. i certainly shall ask for an immediate review of this decision and hope we can work out our problem through the cooperation of the navy department. the telegrams and letters follow: ponca city. okla. february 28. 1948.
