i will be glad to answer the gentleman if he will permit me to proceed for a minute on this point. i will go right to the next point which involves the claim that the famine is  real in india. the key to india. the key to nehru. and the key to everything we face is found in the may 1st speech that my distinguished colleague from wisconsin referred to. in the next to the last sentence of that speech this is what nehru said. and i want you to remember that he is elected by the people. he is a politician like anyone else who has to be elected. he said: i want you above all to drink of common mother india. whose children we are. of her ho and selfrespect and of her distress in the agony of many of her children. let us put all our resources. all our strength and energy in this war against famine which we must and will win. he was expressing pride in his nation and pride in his people. . he made that speech on may 1. the foreign affairs committee had reported out an aid to india bill in march. there it was the 1st of may. india was facing a famine situation. action had been taken in the congress of the united states. either by the house of representatives or by the senate. what did you expect mr. nehru to say to the people of india. should he have said to his people you have the liberty to starve. or did you expect him to make a speech castigating the united states. or did you expect him to say what he did say: "all right. my dear people. we are facing famine. the best we can do is to depend upon ourselves." i ask you as reasonable men. what did you want him to say on may 1 in face of complete failure of action on the part of the congress of the united states. we are disturbed. and rightfully. that nehru made a fuss over the fact that the russians had shipped only 50.000 tons of grain into india. on barter. whereas we had shipped hundreds of thousands of tons india bought here. but should we  ask ourselves if perhaps we ourselves invited that very action by the delay on this bill. what else did we expect. did you expect anything other than implied criticism of our own delays. if delay was wrong. if we feel delay was  wrong. let us  be surprised. let us be adults and accept the consequences.
