. today marks the 15th anniversary of national sportsmanship day. which is celebrated on the first tuesday of each march. national sportsmanship day was the creation of the institute of international sport at the university of rhode island. and it is  the largest initiative of its kind in the world. on march 6. 1990. the institute celebrated the first national sportsmanship day in approximately 3.000 schools. by promoting sportsmanship through this ceremonial day over the ensuing 15 years. the institute has made a positive impact on the lives of hundreds of thousands of young studentathletes. the institute has received thousands of letters and emails commending its leadership in this area. national sportsmanship day also has spawned many local sportsmanship initiatives. led to the creation of an annual essay contest on sportsmanship in usa today. and inspired the celebration of sportsmanship days in foreign countries such as australia and bermuda. this year. through the institutes team sportsmanship initiative. groups of college athletes will visit their local elementary. middle. and high schools to further a dialogue among youth about sportsmanship and fair play. as evidenced by media reports on drug scandals and onfield fights. the promotion of sportsmanship among youngsters remains a useful and beneficial endeavor. i applaud this years participants in national sportsmanship day. and congratulate the institute for its ongoing work to instill the best of values in americas youth.
. today marks the 15th anniversary of national sportsmanship day. which is celebrated on the first tuesday of each march. national sportsmanship day was the creation of the institute of international sport at the university of rhode island. and it is  the largest initiative of its kind in the world. on march 6. 1990. the institute celebrated the first national sportsmanship day in approximately 3.000 schools. by promoting sportsmanship through this ceremonial day over the ensuing 15 years. the institute has made a positive impact on the lives of hundreds of thousands of young studentathletes. the institute has received thousands of letters and emails commending its leadership in this area. national sportsmanship day also has spawned many local sportsmanship initiatives. led to the creation of an annual essay contest on sportsmanship in usa today. and inspired the celebration of sportsmanship days in foreign countries such as australia and bermuda. this year. through the institutes team sportsmanship initiative. groups of college athletes will visit their local elementary. middle. and high schools to further a dialogue among youth about sportsmanship and fair play. as evidenced by media reports on drug scandals and onfield fights. the promotion of sportsmanship among youngsters remains a useful and beneficial endeavor. i applaud this years participants in national sportsmanship day. and congratulate the institute for its ongoing work to instill the best of values in americas youth.
 of brown university. in a recent commencement address at george washington university. he discussed in his wise and witty way the broader role of humanistic study in our society. he emphasizes the relevance of the humanities to the problems that we face in 20thcentury america and to their solution. as he says: the record of human aspiration is the very substance of the humanities. through their study we may learn why some people have sought high things. and others have . and how some brought themselves to. and others. lost. their aspirations. and he goes on to say: if humanists can learn to make their work relevant to these problems. and immedlate as well as retrospective. they will perforw cxi------635part 8 their greatest service .... the study must inform the forum. . i have read better statement of the very real and practical task of the humanities in the 20th century. and under unanimous consent i place the full text of dr. keeneys address in the record at the conclusion of my remarks. it is an eloquent and articulate explanation of the role of the humanities. the money authorized and appropriated for the arts and humanities is dwarfed by the billions spent on the material structure of our society. but the relatively modest sums we spend on the arts and humanities may give us some of the wisdom we need to guide the social and industrial juggernaut that blind techogy has created. we must avoid the road of selfdestruction by seeking the paths of wisdom. the address follows:
i would say the very nature of the foundation is a combination of the two. in the humanities there is an attempt to upgrade the study of the component disciplines and to support the student of the humanities so that he will have topflight humanities to study with and learn from. at the same time. the goal of both endowments is to involve the public in both the arts and the humanitieswhether through regional or touring theater groups or by encouraging programs of local historical societies.
i want to take a moment to discuss the substance of the smith amendment adopted today. and the helms amendment adopted yesterday. they are virtually identical. the amendments say that any local educational agency that carries out a program that has the effect of supporting or encouraging homosexuality shall lose its federal funding. this sounds simple egh. but in practice. i think the vagueness of the amendments wording could prove troublesome for schools. it is hard to define what "support" or "encourage" means. indeed. it would be possible that the following situations could cause a school to risk losing its funds for supporting or encouraging homosexuality: a -guidance counselor counseling and comforting a young teen who is confused and distressed about his or her sexuality. and who may be considering suicide. a teacher assigning works of shakespeare as a reading assignment. and in whose class arises a discussion of shakespeares life and times. a class discussion about "brideshead revisited." and some of the characters in which are homosexual. a school production of the play "the importance of being ernest" by oscar wilde. whose homosexuality was wellkn. i doubt that we want to prevent our schools from the above activities. we absolutely must make sure our teachers and guidance counselors are able to help any confused teensa group already highly susceptible to suicidal tendencies--when they need it. before they do themselves some harm. we need to make sure that important works of art and literature are  kept from the classroom just because of the sexual orientation of the author. or of the characters involved in the work. it may be that the helmssmith amendments are  meant to encompass the above situations. but it is by means clear. and if there is any debate about what the helmssmith amendments mean. then the matter will probably end up in court. and every dime our schools spend in court is one less dime that goes for textbooks. band equipment. sports activities. i feel very. very strongly that we must be careful to keep from causing needless litigation problems for the schools. lets let administrators and teachers get on with the task at hand: educating our children. lets  approve vague amendments. that create a risk for our schools of losing of all federal funds.
. i would like to commend all the students who participated in the rhode island finals of the 1995 national geography bee that took place at rhode island college the competition included eight preliminary rounds. the top 10 winners of the semifinals then competed in the final round. these students received a medallion from the rhode island social studies association for their performance. the third place winner was matthew lawrence from hugh b. gain junior high school. he received $50. a book from national geographic. and an inflatable globe. matthew price of riverside junior high school was the second place winner. he received 375. a book from national geographic. and an inflatable globe. the first place winner was mitchell malachowski of western hills junior high school. as well as receiving $100. an atlas. and an inflatable globe. he will compete in the national finals at national geographic headquarters here in washington. dc. his teacher. mr. william morris. will travel with him. western hills junior high school was presented with a plaque. even more important than the books and plaques that these students received. is the kledge of geography they obtained during preparations for the competition. as our world grows smaller through the advances in techogy. communications. and transportation. the study of geography becomes increasingly significant. this achievement is an exceptional feat. geography is a very important subject. all the participants have demonstrated exceptional kledge in the field. my heartiest congratulations to them all. i ask that a list of these students be printed in the record. the list follows:
. during the past 7 years since the enactment of public law 94142. the education for all handicapped children act. we have witnessed as never before. millions of disabled youngsters taking their places alongside their handicapped fellows in the mainstream of american society. longer are they confined in outoftheway places. their bodies. minds and talents left iged to wither.  these courageous youngsters. eager and capable to learn. sport the bright faces of selfesteem. they live at home. attend school andmost importantlyare giving it their all. it has been tough. doubt about it. these youngsters have had to work and work hard to overcome their disabilities. parents have unselfishly given of their time and money to see that their children take advantage of all opportunities given them. and. yes. dedicated professionalsphysical. occupational. and speech therapists among themhave teamed up with special education teachers and administrators to create the network of services necessary to get the job done. congress. too. has held the steady course. we have said loudly and clearly that we do  want to see the underpinnings of public law 94142 weakened in any way. we have extended the life of the law and in the most difficult of financial times we have found the dollars to sustain our commitment to disabled youngsters. . however. just at the time when virtually everyone agrees the big job is getting done and done well. the department of education dares to propose changes in the rules which govern the program.
obviously the remedies are inadequate. because hundreds of thousands of americans are denied their right to vote. the attorney general himself has asked for additional law. the president has asked for additional law. if once we take the position that all the statutes on the books are sufficient. what are we doing here. we are passing laws every day to deal with matters which appeal to us as requiring law. withstanding the fact that there is other law on the statute books. . i should like to include three cases relating to the idea that an individual who is qualified to vote only has to sue to get his right to vote. aher case is the united states v. raises (172 f. supp. 552). a case in which the civil rights act of 1957 itself was declared unconstitutional. in that case. four school teachers in the georgia school system. all graduates of georgia colleges. and one having a master of arts degree from new york university. were declared unable to pass the literacy tests of the state of georgia. that matter is before the supreme court of the united states. the third case-
madam president. a very distinguished organization called the citizens committee for a nuclear test ban. the principal actor in which is our longtime friend james wadsworth. former representative of the united states at the united nations. has obtained the support of college presidents. business leaders. scientists. and distinguished people in the arts for a fundamental statement of support. i ask unanimous consent that this statement. together with a list of its adherents. may be printed in the record.
i thank the senator from oregon. . we of the miity are most gratified that we were able to make contributions to this billand they are made by every member of the miity. as the senator from oregon has so generously said. i wish particularly to invite attention to the contribution made by the distinguished senator from vermont [mr. prouty--due to illness he was unable to join us in the conferenceon the matter of adding industrial arts to title iii of the national defense education act which is so important to the country. it is highly important that vie provide effective training in this field. we are coming more and more to the stage where the industrial arts will need to be operated by college graduates. it is estimated that as many as 25 percent. or double the present number of operatives in industry within the united states during the next decade. will have to be professionally trained. this will present great problems to our colleges. senator paoutys ideas. which will take effect next year. beginning in fiscal year 1968. will be of immeasurable help in assisting the country to meet that responsibility. i take great pleasure myself in the approval by the conference of the provision for loan cancellations for teachers of handicapped children which i sponsored and in which senator prouty joined. in this field there is a tremendous shortage of teachers. 300.000 teachers a year will be needed. yet only 12.500.a year are being graduated. this is a most humanitarian. constructive work. and we must encourage our young boys and girls to enter upon it. i also take great pleasure in the advancement and progress made by junior colleges. again with the tremendous help of the senator from oregon . we are gradually beginning to step up our participation in junior colleges with a 23percent contribution for next year and 24 percent the following year as contrasted with 22 percent of available funds this year. this program. too. is extremely important. because almost everyone in the country in the years ahead will need a college education of some kind in order to hold his own in ecoic competition. so the 2year junior and community college is extremely important to enable america to meet the challenge of providing higher education for all our children. matter what their ecoic status. the senator from california joined me in sponsoring this provision. i really believe that a most constructive bill has been fashioned under the generalship of senator morse. and that each of us who had the privilege to contribute to it has every reason for gratification at this stage of the proceedings. i join the senator from oregon in urging the senate to approve the conference report.
. as the senator said. while we deal with the affairs of mankind and the ecoy of the country. many courageous young hearts are broken by such conflicts which are completely beyond their reach. let alone beyond their comprehension. i do  believe the sports fans of this country will sit idly by as our outstanding prospects for the olympic games in october are used by these organizations to further their own selfish motives. yet. we are  only a few months away from the olympic trials. and only 10 months away from the the mexico city games. the time has come for us to put it on the line to the amateur athletic union. the national collegiate athletic association. and the u.s. track & field federation: either this bickering is ended once and for all by a willingness to accept the arbitration decision or we in the congress must go forward immediately to take away the jurisdiction of these agencies. leaving them with the authority only to fight with each other.
. that in respect of the theater activities. for example. in my own state of new york we have a gifted fellow by the name of joseph papp. who has gotten some help in having a traveling shakespeare company. an excellent company. go to high schools and to small centers never reached before by commercial endeavors. indeed. this way my whole hope in the many years i spent on the national endowment. that these developments of culture would be had where they had  been seen before. with thousands upon thousands of high school students of every conceivable class and grade attending these performances. could one say that this was for the benefit and the privilege of the wealthy and upper middle class.
