. i would like to join in the tributes to the able work of our chairman of the intelligence committee on which i have the privilege of serving. i also would like to pay tribute to the vice chairman of that committee. senaator goldwater. because between these two gentlemen they run the affairs of that committee with a very even hand. and i think we can assure the members of the senate and the publicatlarge that that committee is vigorously overseeing the intelligence community. seeing to it that both the rights of americans. that the senator from idaho was concerned about. are protected. but also seeing that we are receiving the best possible intelligence service that our nation can provide. so i would like to join in this tribute to the leaders of that committee and also to the chairman of the budget subcommittee on which i had the privilege of serving for a while. the junior senator from maine. i thank the chair.
it is my understanding that the majority leader would like to proceed to the conference report on statejustice. that would be fine by mne if it could be with the understanding that the conclusion. should that be the majority leaders intention. that i wvould be entitled to be recognized in order to fully protect my rights in connection with the motion to proceed on the tax bill.
it is my understanding that the majority leader would like to proceed to the conference report on statejustice. that would be fine by mne if it could be with the understanding that the conclusion. should that be the majority leaders intention. that i wvould be entitled to be recognized in order to fully protect my rights in connection with the motion to proceed on the tax bill.
 arthur. the arguments have been thoroughly vetted. representative flowers summarized the arguments against the lineitem veto as: first ". . . an indignant howl about our rights an interests" [in the legislative branch]. and second. "... those who feign mistrust of the executive. who fear too much oneman power. wisely. the bill before the senate today includes a sunset provision. if it turns out that this authority is abused by the chief executivewhich i do  fearthen congress can let the authority die. the point is. we have been debating this issue for at least 114 years. and the arguments pro and con have been debated ad nauseam. passage of this legislation will  solve our deficit problems. however. it will give the american people one more toolone more check against unnecessary spending. frankly. in my view. we need all the help we can get in that regard. so. i say: let us pass this conference report and get on to other business.
i thank the distinguished senator from virginia for his support in this matter as one who has led the fight for the individuals rights under our constitution over the years. but i want some action out of mr. simon. i have already read the letter from mr. alexander. who is sabotaging these efforts behind the scenes while espousing support in public. mr: simon gave testimony to the select committee back in may of 1974. he said. "yes. i believe we have to do something about irs confidentiality." yet  until august 1974 does a bill come out of treasury and then only as a counterthrust to the legislation which is already drafted and which we have passed upon twice. i am perfectly willing to. listen to peoples good intentions and words. but i think the record of abuse is such that it is incumbent upon all of us to act. to act intelligently and definitively. this is  the only matter that is going to come up in the months ahead. i have already mentioned two. access to our bank accounts. and the matter of access to our internal revenue service returns. there have been other widespread abuses throughout government as it relates to governments role visavis the individual american. this nation is  built on government for the masses. the greatness of our constitution. the greatness of our system. is that each individual is important. that is what gives to us a strength born of diversity rather than a dullness of mediocrity of sameness. it is to get back to the government that was always intended for this nation that i intend to vigorously pursue reform. otherwise people will say that watergate was  factfinding by the senate but rather "getting nixon." it was factfinding. that was our job.  to determine individual guilt or inence. but legislative factfinding. why factfinding. so we could legislate. . my colleagues. the time has come to legislate. in other words. our work did  cease last week. our work began. our legislative work to remedy the abuses that came to light as a matter of the watergate investigations. began. here we have the fist small steps and. right out of the box. we have those in the administration who are holdovers. scurrying around saying. "we are for reform." but doing everything they can to sabotage it. in that category i place both the secretary of the treasury and the commissioner of the internal revenue service. so far it has been the senate that has stood up and been counted. the house has afforded hing. i have great confidence in jerry ford. and actively solicit his support of sound legislative reform of the abuses of watergate.
i thank the distinguished senator from idaho. . i commend both the distinguished senator from idaho and the distinguished senator from texas for achieving today on the floor of the senate a first in the area of tax privacy. unlike a similar resolution in behalf of the watergate committee. which was sweeping and broad and enabled the committee to go after individual returns. this resolution incorporates the lessons that we learned through access. both of the legislative and the executive branches. to irs tax returns. i can begin to measure the ho i wish to bestow on my colleagues for using this occasion as an exercise in selfdiscipline. there has been action anywhere else in the government to insure the confidentiality of tax reforms. the whole issue of tax privacy still hangs in the air. we can make all the speeches we want to about the privacy of our constituents and the importance of privacy. but the senator from idaho and the senator from texas have done something. in connection with this resolution. whereby the committee. the senate. and the american people are assured that in the course of this investigation their privacy will be absolutely preserved. so i can begin to say how excited i am over what senator tower. senator church. and the others on their committee have done today. when i first went to the chairman about this resolution. and said i was most anxious to see to it that the data provided would be provided without names. then a very interesting point was raised-"what we •are trying to do is protect those people who may have been targets of illegal and unethical activity." so we agreed that the resolution should have the added dimension of being able to provide names without data. that. in essence. is the sense of what has been achieved in this resolution. and it has been well done. i think it is a tremendous first step forward on reform relative to restricting governmental access to individual tax returns. i am proud that it was a senate select committee which did it.
. i ask unanimous consent that a resolution to establish a timetable for senate consideration of and final action on legislation dealing with watergate reform. intelligence oversight and tax privacy be considered at this time by the senate.
. might the distinguished senator from connecticut i inquire of the majority and miity are adhered to. but we can do hing on leadqurer a t he r or. nt i is tr watergate reform and tax privacy legislation leaders as to whether or  it is their until those issues are reported out of comunderstanding. as it is my understand- mittee. it is our hope that• we will be able ing. that at 1 p.m. we shall. proceed to to dilpose of aul these matters well before the debate on this resolution. the fourth of july recess and we will jointly
i am sorry i can agree with that interpretation. certainly in the absence of the senior senator from th carolina we are lashed to the words which are in the report. and the report. it seems to me. makes it very clear that. as it says: at the present rate of expense. the proposed budget should permit the subcommittee. in addition to dealing with legislation referred to it. to continue or initiate work on the following subjects. it is very clear to me. at least. that the design of this request details what subjects will be considered. in addition to dealing with proposed legislation referred to the subcommittee. in regard to legislation. again. we get into the controversy as to what is referred to the subcommittee. when it is referred. and whether. even if it is referred. it will be considered. the important point is that this money is requested principally for study. but the studies do  include the study of the question of constitutional rights kn as civil rights. what am i trying to do about that. i am  trying to write in a charge or a direction to the subcommittee to consider that question. i am only trying to keep that door open by giving the majority of the subcommittee the right to have that subject studied. if it chooses to do so. it seems to me that this is an extremely mild approach to the problem. but at least it is something which might have some basis in the intention of the senate in voting this money.
. i will take the assurance of the majority leader and i will take the assurance of the chairman of the committee. because they are the ones who are vested with the authority. so far as the senator from nebraska is concerned. after all he has to rely upon what took place before. he does  run the subcommittee. and i would  wish to tax him with that responsibility or to ask of him anything which in my heart i knew he could  do or say. both the assurances by the majority leader and the chairman of the committee are satisfactory to me. they are. first. that bills referred to the judiciary committee will be automatically and promptly referred to the appropriate subcommittees. second. that the practice of the constitutional rights subcommittee will be to grant a hearing on referred bills on the request of the sponsor or the cosponsor. if i have those assurances. i will withdraw this amendment.
. i also ask unanimous consent on behalf of the senator from pennsylvania that. at its next printing. my name be added as a cosponsor of the bill to authorize the coinage of 50cent pieces in recognition of the outstanding services of the reverend dr. martin luther king. jr.. to the cause of the individual rights and the equality of men.
. today the senate has before it s. 3378. the developmentally disabled assistance and bill of rights act of 1974. i urge its favorable consideration by my colleagues. this measure has broad bipartisan support. and was unanimously reported from the labor and public welfare committee. title ii of s. 3378 is based upon s. 458. the bill of rights for the mentally retarded which i authored and introduced originally in the 92d congress with over 50 cosponsors. i am gratified that the same broad bipartisan support continues with respect to s. 3378 today. the purpose of title ii is to establish standards for residential and community facilities and agencies for the protection of the rights of those individuals needing services. and to develop alternative procedural and performance criteria that may be used by facilities to comply with standards of this title. it is organized as follows. part a sets forth general provisions for residential and community facilities and agencies serving mentally retarded and other developmentally disabled individuals. section 201: a definition section containing the necessary definition of terms used in title ii. the term "developmental disabilities" is again defined here. and is consistent with the definition in title i. also there is a definiton of "informed consent" which parallels that in the human experimentation act. section 202: establishes a national advisory council for residential and community facilities to review and recommend changes to the standards for facilities serving the mentally retarded and other individuals with developmental disabilities. effective 90 days after enactment. the secretary of hew shall appoint the council which shall consist of 15 members. such council shall be made up of members from appropriate public agencies providing services to individuals with developmental disabilities. professional and voluntary organizations representing people with developmental disabilities. and at least onethird of the council shall be consumers or the parents or guardians of individuals who are receiving services from publicly operated or publicly assisted residential and community facilities and agencies. it is the duty and function of the council to advise the secretary with respect to regulations promulgated under this title and on the standards set forth in parts c and d to study and evaluate the standards of parts c and d of this act and their effectiveness. conduct sight visits or studies and recommend changes in the standards. and to assist the secretary in developing specific performance criteria for use in the alternative standards procedure of part b of this title. the secretary shall appoint members to the council within 30 days of the effective date of establishing the council and shall fill all subsequent vacancies within 30 days of their occurrence. the council is authorized such sums as may be necessary for staffing and performance of duties in this section. section 203: assessing compliance with standards. this section sets forth the mechanism by which a state must provide assurance to the secretary that those facilities. both residential and community. must provide assurance for compliance with either the standards set forth in parts c and d of title ii. and the establishmentof a compliance plan. or that the residential or community facility or agency is meeting the requirements of part b of this title. this section makes the secretary responsible for insuring compliance with title ii. any state desiring to receive assistance under this title shall submit a state plan setting forth the schedule for compliance of standards established in parts * c arid d of title ii assuring reasonable state financial participation. demonstrating the need for continuing residential services. specifying how the state intends to evaluate and assess the compliance of residential and community facilities with the standards set forth in parts c and d of the title. provide for reviewing of this state plan by the state planning council. set forth a schedule of cost and demonstration procedures to assure that the primary emphasis on programs. relating to the mentally retarded and other developmentally disabled individuals will be to place these individuals in the least restrictive program and living environment commensurate with their capability. section 204: authorizes such sums as may be necessary to help existing residential and community facilities and agencies to comply with the standards set forth in this title. the section also establishes a federal share of 75 percent of the necessary cost determined by the secretary. section 205: maintenance of effort. this section sets forth provisions for the maintenance of effort by states in relations to all federal programs which have a bearing on those individuals in residential and community facilities and agencies to insure that the financial effort on the part of the state shall  be lessened with any increase in federal aid. this language was developed in conjunction with the office of management and budget and requires reports to the congress of compliance with this section. section 206: withholding of grants. this section provides that 5 years after the date of enactment of this title. residential or community facility or agency for individuals with developmental disabilities shall be eligible to receive payments either directly or indirectly under any federal law unless the facility meets the standards presented in parts c and d of this title or has demonstrated to the secretary for a reasonable period of time that it has implemented requirements of part b of this title. it provides- in the case of withholding of grants to these facilities that the individual on whose behalf the grant or payments are being made shall  lose his entitlement and that the federal government shall hold these funds in trust for that individual. section 207: evaluation and performance criteria. the section directs the secretary of hew to create an evaluation system of the performance criteria that is consumer oriented. such system shall be developed in consultation with the national council. and transmitted to the congress within 18 months of enactment of this title. $1.000.000 is authorized for this purpose in both fiscal year 1975 and fiscal year 1976. part b: alternative criteria for compliance in lieu of standards for residential and community facilities and agencies. provided in parts c and d of this title. section 210: the purpose of this section is to provide for an alternative means for residential and community facilities to comply with standards set forth in parts c and d of the title by the use of specified procedural criteria set for in this part. by compliance with certain minimum standards set forth in this part. and by additional compliance with specific performance criteria developed by the national council and the secretary and deemed necessary for the protection of the rights of individuals receiving services in residential and community facilities and agencies. section 211: individualized written habilitation plan. the secretary shall insure that an individualized written habilitation program is developed for every individual who is in or served by a residential facility. community facility. or agency for which standards have been established under this act. every plan shall be developed jointly by representatives of the facility or agency responsible for the developmentally disabled individual or his representative. such plans shall be reviewed periodically but at least annually. such plans shall include the statement of longterm habilitation goals for the individual. intermediate habilitation objectives. statement of specific service to be provided. dates for initiation and anticipated duration. objective criteria. and evaluation procedures. the plan is intended to assure the greatest latitude of choice for the individual and shall be written in language that is as understandable to all concerned as possible. under subsection f the"secretary is requiredto specify detailed performance criteria to further eivaluate the progress attained by individuals through the use of such habilitation plans. section 212: program coordination. every person served by an agency shall have a program coordinator who is responsible for implementing the persons individual written habilitation plan. it shall be the function of the coordinator to attend to the total spectrum of the persons needs and be the focal point of responsibility for the provision of service to that person. the personwhere practicableor his family shall participate in the selection of this coordinator. section 213:- protective and personal advocacy. under this section the secretary shall insure that provisions are made for the establishing of a system of protection and personal advisory service within each state to monitor programs and services to protect the human and legal rights of every developmentally disabled individual served by a residential or community facility or agency. such programs shall be independent of the agency providing direct service. the newly established agency shall set such an independent compliance mechanism which has authority to review all complaints regarding infringement of rights or denial of benefits. decisions of the independent compliance board shall be subject to appropriate judicial review. section 214: record requirements. this section requires facilities using procedure of part b to keep records that the secretary may deem appropriate to evaluate the effectiveness and compliance with this part and that such facilities shall review those individuals refused for service and the reasons for their refusal at least semiannually and that the information shall be reported to the secretary and the state. section 215: minimum standards for use with alternative procedures. this section sets forth provisions which shall be required when a residential or community facility or agency selects to use part b in lieu of the standards set forth in c and d. these minimum standards comprise basic necessities for the individual to develop without violation of his human or civil rights. these minimum standards set forth certain physical requirements for the facilities opting to use part b procedures and provides certain minimum protections of the human rights of the individual. part c: provides detailed minimum standards for residential facilities as developed by the major accrediting councils and associations in the field of care for the developmentally disabled. these are minimum standards guided by the principal of malization of persons with developmental disabilities which insure that persons receiving services from residential facilities are protected from violation of their human and civil rights. part d: provides detailed minimum standards for community -facilities and agencies serving persons with developmental disabilities. these are minimum standards. developed by the same groups which developed part c standards. are consistent with part c and likewiseare guided by the principle of malization of persons with developmental disabilities while insuring that the humai and civil rights of these persons are  violated when they receive services fiom community facilitie and agencies.
. i deeply feel that this is  only a very trying dispute between the house and the senate which has been settled. but a milestone in our legislation and a milestore in our history on womens rights and cn the fidelity of both houses of congress to their duty and to conscience. i believe the country owes a great debt to senators magnuson and brooke for the persistence which this has called for. it would have been easy egh to say. "well. it is only 1 year. we will try again next year." but they stuck to it and the senate stuck with them. it is a great victory for our country today. i congratulate both senators.
