i thank the gentleman from california. both our states have effective commissions against discrimination. it has been a privilege to serve with the gentleman and with members on both sides of the aisle who share this clear commitmentas i am sure the congress will by its vote todayto equal opportunity. this nation is engaged in a war on poverty. we are expending billions of dollars and countless manhours in an effort to train the underprivileged of our society to assume gainful and ightful employment. we will have perpetrated a morally reprehensible hoax if we have trained these americans merely to have them denied the basic human right to seek -and obtain employment on their own merits. . we can assure effective administrative enforcement of our policy of equal employment opportunity by passage of this legislation. we can afford to give less than a full measure of aid to those americans who are willing to help themselves but who have been denied that basic opportunity. i strongly urge members on both sides of -the aisle to support this legislation.
. the international crisis of these last months serves to emphasize the importance of our recognition of this week. which is captive nations week. by our observance in the united states. we show our support of the right of all people to pursue their political. ecoic. and cultural development as they deem best. this support will encourage and nurture the hope for freedom for those still subjected to the yoke of tyranny and enslavement that engulfs millions of people. it is fitting. therefore. that we in this country set aside at least one week each year to focus our attention on those people seeking to attain liberty and independence. their morale is their strongest weapon. and we. who often take for granted the rights of democracy. can reinforce this weapon by showing that their plight is recognized and their energies are still appreciated. through our observance of captive nations week. we can reaffirm our determination to support the establishment of democratic principles and eventual freedom for these subjugated people. coming so soon after the symbolic days of july 4. which we cherish in the united states. and july 14. bastille day. of great significance to france. captive nations week emphasizes even more our own commitment to democracy. and the concern which free people must feel for those who do  have it.
. i first want the record to showand i will allow the distinguished assistant miity leader to correct the record himselfthat the distinguished assistant miity leader is entirely within his rights to quote me and then comment upon my quotation. but please do  quote john f. kennedy and then say i called his words rubbish. that is the senators interpretation.  a matter of fact. and i want to record to show it. i remember after the end of the vietnam war there was a reception at the white house. it was a reception to which i was invited. i learned that there were several of my colleagues who had  been invited to that reception. and i inquired as to why. i found out that since i had supported the administration policy in south vietnam i was invited. those who had . including many of my colleagues on this side of the aisle. were excluded from that reception. which carried the title of "peace with ho." the implication was that those who did  support the administration either did  want peace or were dishoable men and women. that is the exact type of situation which is recurring . those who do  support these additional funds for cambodia or south vietnam are either dishoable or do  want to achieve peace.
yes. i shall refer to them later in connection with the importance of supervision of regional problems outside the boundaries of th: respective states. the representatives of these agencies themselves often derived from these hearings information which will help to coordinate their activities. the existing lack of complete information by some agencies about the activities of others and about the allover purposes of the united states government indicates that much benefit can be derived from closer contact among the civilian agencies and the armed forces. the state department. as the principal permanent organization in the field. is the one to take the lead in bringing about this coordination. (c) our field agencies frequently lacked information or records as to the investments of the united states. adequate evidence often was  readily accessible as to the rights of the united states to use the properties occupied by it and upon which large expenditures had been made primarily for military purposes. this is to be expected in the armed forces which have been primarily interested in temporary and tactical operations. they rarely are equipped with an understanding of local law or of all the legal rights and obligations incident to our use of facilities or land for military purposes. the state department. on the other hand. generally.has kledge of such local law. substantial benefits to the united states result from the joint consideration of these matters by representatives in the field of our armed forces and our state department. the more remote these former combat areas become from active military operations the more important it is that questions relating to the rights and obligations of the united states be turned over to permanent civilian agencies of our government. a step in this direction is the policy of turning over property finally judged to be surplus property for ultimate disposition through the foreign ecoic administration. a system of property records especially affecting real estate and fixed properties needs to be developed. files developed by the intelligence services of the army and navy and the office of strategic services should be preserved in the respective areas after the active armed forces have ceased to occupy them. these files should be placed under the supervision of the state department and some official in every case should be designated to take direct charge of such files and information on a permanent basis. the office of war information should be closely integrated with the state department with a view to developing the policies to be followed after the armed forces have moved on in the postwar period. if postwar activities are to be maintained. as they obviously should be. in some localities and  in others. steps should be taken promptly to select the areas in which informational activities are to be continued and to avoid any break in" the continuity of the services in those areas. one important need was recognized by dean james m. landis following his experience of the past year or more as the director of the american ecoic mission of the middle east with headquarters at cairo. he has emphasized the value of the regional handling of policies and ecoic activities in this area rather than the handling of them solely through our diplomatic missions to the separate countries. our security and ecoic interests demand such coordination on a regional basis. this need is emphasized by the policy recently developed by great britain of appointing a resident minister of cabinet rank who is in a position to coordinate british policies on a regional basis. dean landis. through the ecoic mission in the middle east. was able to render some such service. although this mission has been disbanded. it still is possible to coordinate our activities on a regional basis in this area through the state department.
. 1 year has passed since the united states. the soviet union. and other members of the nato and warsaw pacts signed the helsinki accord. kn formally as the final act of the conference on security and cooperation in europe. since then. there has been a considerable amount of concern in the west as to whether the signatory nations are living up to the promises they made. especially in the human rights area. as a result of this concern. congress earlier this year passed legislation introduced by congresswoman fenwick and me to establish a 15member commission to monitor compliance with the helsinki accord. the commission held its first preliminary meeting last week and it is hoped that the administration will decide soon to name its members to the group. newspaper articles printed on the anniversary of the august 1. 1975. signing of the helsinki accord indicate that there are valid reasons to doubt whether the humans rights sections of the agreement are being implemented. i ask unanimous consent that several articles on the issue be printed in the record.
. i congratulate all americans of romanian descent on the occasion of the 100th anniversary of the achievement of romanian independence and the founding of the independent kingdom of romania. on may 10. 1877. romania---along with her ally. russiafought for the independence it had already proclaimed from the ottoman empire and defeated the turks on the battlefield. the congress of berlin in 1878. confirmed romanian independence and on may 10. 1881. charles i was crowned the first king of romania. after world war ii. however. romania fell under the dominance of the soviet union. and so the country has once again lost her freedom. romania is one of the 35 participating countries in the helsinki agreement of 1975 and. as a member of the cornmission on security and cooperation in europeotherwise kn as the helsinki commissioni am particularly concerned with the problem of romanian implementation of their promises. especially in the area of human rights. in connection with this. i am heartened to hear that the manchester guardian .reports the romanian government has already released the writer. paul goma. and is going to grant amnesty to 28.000 people. including dissidents. to mark the 100th anniversay of romanian independence. i hope that this information is correct. last month. the senate. in showing its concern and friendship for the people of romania. approved legislation authorizing $20 million to assist victims of the recent earthquake in romania. once again. let me extend my best wishes today to all romanianamericans and let us all work together so that romanians. wherever they are. will be free to practice their religious. cultural. and political rights as they see fit.
. if we are going to discuss this tomorrow when there are more senators on the floor. i expect we might  engage in a very extended discussion at this point. but i would like to say that i think the main reasons for opposing this amendment are two. first. i do  think it is necessary. i think it is quite clear that our military people have a strong view. and we will quote chapter and verse from their testimony in the record tomorrow when we have collected it. which our staff will be busily engaged in doing tonight. to the effect that the way we prevent hostile ships going through the canal in time of war is to prevent them from gaining access to it while they are still in the open sea. where we have complete freedom to deal with them. and of course we will have. as we  have. adequate military power to take care of that job. that being so. this amendment falls in the area of things that maybe it would be nice to have for a person who had everything. to give them this. too. that sort of thing. we could go on with that kind of process indefinitely and we would never have a treaty. it seems to me that the arguments against the amendment. therefore. are just those. it is  necessary. it is  something we do  under any rights we have. it is just something that would make it impossible for this country to engage in negotiations for. and conclusions of treaties with. any other country. the senate can write the treaty. the senate can review a treaty which has been given tentative agreement by our government and the other contracting party or parties. if there are matters of great importance or consequence which are dealt with. as we see it. either improperly or in a negligent way. american interests. then we can and should either amend the treaties. if the fault can be corrected by an amendment. or reject the treaty. but we can dot every "i" and cross every "t" as if we were writing the treaty ourselves. we are  the lawyers for the state department. we are  even the lawyers in review of actions of the department. we are he_e as a body to deal with large and serious questions of policy. for that reason. it seems to me clear that amendment should be adopted by the senate which would be regarded as merely stating something our way when it is perfectly adequately covered in the treaty as presented to us. just for the sake of having our language and our gloss applied to it. all serious matters ought to be considered seriously. this does  represent a serious fault or indeed a fault at all. it is merely a matter of choice of how to express an agreement with aher country. i believe when we present to the senate tomorrow substantive evidence given by our military people. which i am sure will confirm what i have said in general terms. the senate will agree that this amendment ought  to be adopted
. the purpose of the bill is to authorize and direct the secretary of the army to relinquish restrictions on use and modify reserved rights of reentry in an undefined part of the former fort schuyler military reservation. a portion of which was conveyed to the state of new york pursuant to the act of september 5. 1950. and which is  being used for a maritime academy and for other defense uses. the bill enables the state of new york and the city of new york to proceed with a new bridge to link the boroughs of queens and the bronx. with some of the supports to be erected on a portion of the fort schuyler reservation. and with the bridge proper to pass over other parts of the installation.
i rise today. first to salute a miracle of american history. the most significant entry in the biography of dr. henry alfred kissinger are the words: born. may 27. 1923. furth. germany. naturalized u.s. citizen june 19. 1943. spartanburg. s.c.. when he was in the army. this is a first in history. whatever else it doesand i think henry kissinger will make a very distinguished and. i hope. a great secretary of state--it will inspire the aspirations of every person of miity ethnic origin in this country. whether religious. national. or in any other way. this ination stands in such magnificent juxtaposition to the repressions of the other superpower against intellectuals and miitiesparticularly the jewish miityit is a magnificxix1942part 24 cent testimonial to the fact that we mean what we say in this country and that we actually live up to our words. this could  have come about were  dr. kissinger a man of great character. extremely high intelligence. and possessed of the ideas and initiatives which our country admires. and which have won the confidence of presidents and the country. there were many imperfections which have been pointed out in the committee dealing with the wiretap issue which was by means a happy one for dr. kissinger. or ourselves. indeed. one of its silver linings is the fact that we have  resolved to dig into the question completely in a resolution which the committee adopted. sponsored by the distinguished senator from maine and myself. but what stands out are the words in the committee report: dr. kissinger is eminently qualified for the position to which he is inated. from the standpoint both of education and experience. withstanding our individual disagreementsincluding my own with him on the war powers act. and on the way in which we need to deal with the soviet union regarding oppression and repressionhe demonstrates a capacity and a conviction which impressed the committee well nigh unanimously. in that catecory i would even include the distinguished senator from south dakota . who certainly is distinguished in his own right and is obedient to his own conscience in terms of an appraisal of the man. s cabinetwilliam rogers.
i thank the senator. i doubt that we would find many senators. considering the senator from alabamas ability. who would think him outdistanced by the three of us. i think the senator is well able to hold his own. i point out to the senator that in his remarks he assumes two things which in my judgment are  true. one is that the only criterion under the reservation by which an extradition may be judged is the third item on page 2. lines 21 to 23 of the criteria. it reads: where the person whose surrender is sought would  be guaranteed all the basic rights of an accused under the united states constitution. i point out that the two others are equally applicable. one is where the united states is competent to prosecute and intends to exercise its jurisdiction. we have but to say so. the word "or" then appears. and it reads "or where the person whose surrender is sought has already been or is at the time of the request being prosecuted-" the other point i would like to leave with the senator is this: the fact is that our contention is--i believe it is valid. and i will undertake to prove it when i make my own speechthat the treaty does  require this reservation. that this reservation represents caution. endeavoring to satisfy the concerns .of some few members who may feel that the treaty is  adequate. and that the binding proof that the treaty is adequate--and i hope the senator will address himself to this questionis that an article of the treaty specifically provides for implementing legislation. this treaty is  operative until there is implementing domestic legislation. with that implementing legislation. attached to the draft which senator scott and i have introduced to this committee report. it is made crystal clear that unless we want to or unless we have entered into some other treaty for an international tribunal. requiring twothirds. we are  obliged to surrender anybody. any more than we are under this reservation. which simply locks it in. in so many words.
