subsequently said: . i understand the distinguished miity leader and other members of the senate this morning have already spoken of the execution of nagy. and i should like to add a few words. the execution of imre nagy by the communists is gory language for the world to read. it should serve as a bitter lesson to those especially in the newly established nations who may be attracted by the lure of communisms drumbeaters as an international brotherhood of the proletariat. exposing it for the cruel hoax it is. for mr. nagy. who was twice called to the premiership of his native hungary during the heyday of communist rule in 1953 and during the days when soviet repression took place in october and ember 1956 at the time of the revolt for hungarian freedom. was executed  because he turned his back on the doctrines of communism to which he had been devoted most of his life but because he did  turn his back on hungary and his people. indeed. the execution was compounded by betrayal of a safeconduct assurance as well. periodically. just as the world is distracted by sputniks or communist propaganda on nuclear testing the inner dynamics of the communist dictatorship produce an event evidencing again the cold. calculated soviet imperialism that has kept enslaved the peoples of the balkan and baltic satellites and other nations behind the iron curtain as well as the people of hungary. imre nagy and pal maleter were executed in secret in a communist land after a secret communist trial by a secret communist court for the supreme offense of anticommunism but for challenging soviet imperialism. for ourselves. too. and all the people in the free world there is a grim lesson in these events. considering the power and the ambit of authority of the soviet union it is absolutely essential that we continue to negotiate with them in respect of interchange of persons. arts and ideas. disarmament. peace. u. n.. and the causes of world tensions. but it reminds us again that the fundamental principle to be followed is the stepbystep concept of the original baruchhancock report on the control of atomic weapons developed in 1946. in short. each party takes a step forward and then aher step toward an agreed upon objectivesweeping and quick changes in this kind of a situation are unlikelywe need  only wisdom but fortitude. considering the stark and grim realities only confirmed by the hungarian executions. it is this course which continues to show the only real promise in a troubled world.
