. with the passing of warren lee pierson. america has lost one of its great business leaders. on a more personal e. my family. especially my father. has lost a firm and warmhearted friend. born in princeton. minn.. just before the turn of the century. warren pierson served first france and then the united states with great distinction during world war i. after the successftl practice of law. both indivdually and corporately. warren pierson then became active in the business world. his leadership of transworld airlines has marked him with ho as one of the creators of americas preeminent position in commercial aviation. under this guidance. transworld became the great global air carrier that it is today. at a time when so many americans seem to doubt themselves. or the capabilities of their nation. facts become the most valued guideposts. the fact is that american commercial aviation from its planes and their engines to its pilots to its corporations are the greatest in the world. a feat accomplished literally within my lifetime. that is why this tribute to a wonderful americanwarren pierson.
. due to the mideast crisis and the railroad resolution just passed. i was unable to attend the meeting of the political committee of the th atlantic assembly. which is the new name for the nato parliamentarians conference. on which i am a rapporteur on the political committee. the occupant of the chair at the present moment. the distinguished senator from indiana [mr. bayhi. is well acquainted with that organization. the committee saw fit. at my request. as i cabled them. to consider the middle east issue. i should like to cause to be read into the recordwhich i shall do the statement which the committee adopted. as it represents the european view of the distinguished parliamentarians and members of that committee. the statement is very brief and will take just a minute to read: the political committee of the th atlantic assembly. at which a draft report prepared by its rapporteur. senator jacob javits of new york. was considered today. issued the following statement: the committee ed with concern the grave developments in the middle east and expressed support for the united nations security council in its efforts to bring about a ceasefire leading to a just settlement of the problems involved there and eliminating all possible conflicts. including the acceptance of the right of israel to exist and have free international access to the strait of tiran
. in good conscience. identify with the position taken by senators fong. aiken. and stevenson with regard to this particular amendment. we went through this particular approach in the committee as well. it is clear that if we do  agree basically with the proposition that a sum of money of roughly $2.900 million should be devoted to foreign aid and that that is a fair application of our priorities. then. of course. we have an absolute right to find every way we can to cut it down. this is one way to do it. as the senator from hawaii has stated. it is an atom bomb placed in the bill. but it is a way to do it. and it is a perfectly proper way to do it. but if we are satisfied with the overall budgetary situation. in spite of all of our troubles. trying  to be hardhearted or to have the hard feelings of a rich man walking along the streets of the world. which is a lot poorer than we are then we have got to devote something to the cause of world relief and world assistance. all other developed nations who are far poorer than we are engaged in such programs. i k of hing that would commend itself to us for humanitarian action more than the dreadful tragedies which have afflicted those people of the indian subcontinentespecially in view of our own rather touchy relationshipin their efforts to disenthrall themselves from those who have been barbaric to them. to wit. the government and army of west pakistan. under these circumstances. one can speak of this in human and personal terms.
