i am sure of that. too. this whole program. some of which the senator from montana. as he truly says. has outlined too. adopts again the negotiating policy we have found best with the russiansjust as is advanced in the baruchhancock atomic weapons control planthe stepbystep approach by which each act done depends on the completion of the preceding one. it is very interesting that khrushchev rejected this idea in the speech which he made just the other day. in which. incidentally. he got himself further out on a limb in terms of the use of force. he said. in practical effect. that the russians have hing to negotiate. that they do  have any accommodation for the idea of stepbystep activity. that there is hing for them to negotiate. but i do  think that either the senator from montana or i or anyone else is confounded by that philosophy. that is the technique of putting up a tough front. an ungiving attitude. but i do  think that any of us can forget that w~hen we did a real good job on the berlin airlift. withstanding all the truculent statements which were made about the berlin airlift. the berlin airlift turned out to be successful. the russians quit when they knew they were licked licked in any military sense. but licked in the sense that they understood the support by the people and the antagonism of the people of the whole world. and the successful lapse of time in order to bring about both things. i think we ought to take a stern lesson from that when we are talking about the situation and the way in which it ought to be negotiated. the western powers have  been truculent. even about the impediments which might be placed in the way of access to west berlin after may 27. 1959. the suggestion is abroad that even the east german puppet government could. under proper circumstances be treated as the agent of the u.s.s.r.. also that united nations consideration will be sought before there is any serious countermove by the western powers against an effort to impede access to west berlin. and. finally. i think it is clearly implied that united kingdom. united states. and french countermoves will be in relation to the seriousness of the impediments put up to west berlin access. the president made that clear just yesterday. in answering the sweeping. dangerous statement of khrushchev. a statement which everyone understands. in which khrushchev said that if anyone should start shooting. it would mean the beginning of war. the president hastened to reassure hin---and there he was on solid ground as a great military commanderthat we do  intend to start shooting unless a situation which the russians create demands it. it seems clear that we will resist. but we are  threatening major war over mi difficulties. we will react strongly only if it is really absolutely essential.
