i hope the senator from nebraska will indulge me for a few minutes while i reply to his speech. king the senator from nebraska as i do. i feel that he would  have spoken unless he felt deeply and sincerely concerning what he said. that is all the more reason for  letting it go by without a reply. the distinguished senator is one republican. like myself. and it would be so easy to stand aside and say. "let it go. it is only one mans opinion. the opinion of a distinguished senator. colleague. and friend. why argue about it." but i think that would be a disservice to our party and to the nation. so i hope the senator from nebraska will indulge me while i reply. in the first place. i am a member of the republican party. too. i say. with some pardonable pride. that i received more votes in the last election than any other republican running for national political office in this country. i won new york by almost 1 million votes. new york is one of the most republican states in the nation. it has a republican majority in both houses of the legislature. it has a republican gover. it has two republican senators. gover rockefeller is the undisputed leader of his party in new york. there can be question about that. and that is a pretty good record for a republican who is being charged with trying to wreck his party. nexti would hope the senator from nebraska would really read and think through very carefully what gover rockefeller has saidgover rockefeller attacked republican. gover rockefellers statement is very different from what we have just heard. the speech we have just heard is a direct personal attack on the gover of the state of new york. but gover rockefeller picked out republican to attack as the wrecker of his party. i think that is a very material difference when one is talking about unity and the accommodation of party members to one ahers views. gover rockefeller did  attack conservatives. that is a fundamental point. i will  for a moment stand here and hear it said that gover rockefeller turned on the great majority of his party. gover rockefeller turned on the radical right. and they are  the great majority of his party. the great majority of his party does  believe. with the radical right. that earl warren should be impeached. that the income tax should be repealed. that the united states should kick the united nations out of its headquarters in new york. that we should end foreign aid. and that eisenhower is a neocommunist. i strongly maintain that any such statement does a grave disservice to the great majority of the republican party. the republican party may be conservative. and it may . i respect. as much as any other member of the senate. including the senator from nebraska. the conservatism of republicans. that is their duty and right. just as it is my duty and right to entertain any view that i maintain. but they are  the radical right whom i believe gover rockefeller properly denced as a danger to our party. was gover rockefeller the only person in the great expanse of our country who saw this danger coming upon the republican party.  on your life. the distinguished senior senator from california stood in the senate and made two magnificent speeches dencing the radical right and its infiltration of the republican party. as strong a conservative as any other member of the senate on this side of the aisle. senator milton young of th dakota. took the same position when he found his party being attacked in his own state by the radical right. if we need any more evidence. here in the current issue of a national magazine. look magazine. is an article entitled "the rampant right invades the gop." . i ask unanimous consent that the article may be printed as a part of my remarks.
