. it is a sad commentary on our free enterprise system that the federal government is. in effect. the hostage of a bankrupt companywhether it be a railroad or an aircraft manufacturer. the public interest requires that the railroad be kept operating. but i believe that the public interest also requires that a better method be found to avert such ecoic disasters in the future. moreover. it is essential railroad regulationsoften dating from the 1890sbe totally reviewed and that consideration be given to costs of rightsofway and signaling uniquely borne by railroads (but  by airlines and truckers) as well as the competitive future of railroads in our free enterprise transportation system. we need a new national transportation policy. the bill provides for up to $125 million in loan guarantee certificates subject to six strict criteria and only upon approval of the court. the united states and the taxpayer stand ahead of every other mortgage and indebtedness except statutory wages and rolling stock. i hope workers will support this bill as an emergency step mindful that we need new approaches urgently to save our railroads.
. i share the deep concern of the senator from missouri on the national ecoic situation as it appears to be in the forthcoming. at least foreseeable. future. as he mentioned. we have the crisis of the 10th largest corporation in the nation verging on bankruptcy and coming to the senate and the congress for substantial assistance. we have the other two major automobile manufacturers in the nation both suffering actual losses in the third quarter on their domestic production and but for their foreign sales. would have recorded a deficit. we have one of the great institutions of our nation. which we always looked upon as inviolate. as rich. as eternal reallythat is. the united states steel corp.-laying off thousands of workers. closing some 30 plants. and reviewing their operations in their other plants as they look toward the gloomy future and what they are going to do to reorganize that company into a profitable one once again. it seems to me that the subject we are discussing here today is. namely. $138 billion going to a very limited number of states and. indeed. 82 percent of it. as the distinguished senator from missouri has pointed out. going to some four states. with the entitlements that those states are going to have. i heard the senator from california state that they have concern about luring away other industries. i find that refreshing. although perhaps inconceivable. there is  a state i k of -in the nation that is  searching from other states for industry. commerce. whatever it might be that will help the revenues within that state.
 in tokyo. has concluded from his research that auto industry productivity in japan is 2% times greater than in the u.s. and still growing at 8% a year as the manufacturers automate. the u.s. industry should be able to narrow the gap with improvements in design. factory organization. and automation. japanese automakers building cars in the u.s. are tightlipped about their costsand the manufacturing techniques they are usingbut some of them. at least. appear to think they can compete with the home factories. one optimistic school of thought holds that u.s. automakers can do even better than the japanese if they try hard egh over a long egh period. a giant company like gm is slow to change. says david cole. director of automotive studies at the university of michigan. "but in a way that tremendous size is a real advantage." he argues. "they can use their operations as one emous laboratory. where hundreds of experiments are going on all the time. when all the best practices are consolidated. theyll have generated a new production system internally." cole thinks detroitss efforts can pay off in a costcompetitive small car by 1989. gm thinks so too. in an operation called project saturn. gm is "starting with a clean sheet of paper." as chairman roger b. smith puts it. to design a new generation of small cars that would be on the market before the end of the decade. gm will build the wedgeshaped saturn using large numbers of socalled intelligent robots that can do complex tasks. along with teams of workers responsible for whole subassemblies. many components. like frontend sections. will reach the final assembly line already made up into modules. chrysler claims to be embarked on a similar effortpresumably on a smaller scale. given its lesser resources. the end of the decade is an awful lot of breathing room for the industry to expect. but over the next five years several factors. political and ecoic. will work in detroits favor. in the near term it may well get an extension of the quotas. though perhaps with some annual growth rate for japanese imports. walter mondale has pledged to continue quotasprovided u.s. auto companies promise to reinvest their profits on american soil. the reagan administration has avoided taking any position on the matter. claiming that brocks freetrade talk reflects only his personal opinion. reagans campaign strategists cant help but ice that 74% of the electoral votes needed tp win the election are in industrial states. where protectionist feeling runs high. reagans reticence is more complicated. however. than mere electionyear fencestraddling. japan. because of its powerful farm lobby. is still virtually shutting out u.s. agricultural imports despite administration efforts to pry that market open even if quotas end next year. detroit is unlikely to return to its sickbed. one pleasant surpriseand a big part of the reason for the rapid runup in detroits earningshas been the return to popularity of the relatively big and luxurious car. demand for cadillacs. lincolns. oldsmobile cutlass supremes. and the like shifted into high gear as soon as oil prices began to drop two years ago: sales are  at two million a year. or about 25% of the market. one in detroit expects bigcar sales to accelerate forever. but its a heady ride while it lasts: profit margins range from $2.000 to $6.000 per car. in this segment of the market the japanese dont compete at all. "the u.s. is the only market in the world for these cars." es martin anderson. "it isnt practical for the japanese to build them in any volume." big cars arent the only ace detroit is holding. figuring that japanese import restraints have to end sometime. all three major auto companies have made plans either to build small cars overseas or import cars to sell under u.s. labels. or both. general motors has been the most aggressive. om  has a 34% equity in the japanese automaker isuzu. a 5% stake in suzuki. and 50% of south koreas daewoo. gm wants to start importing some 300.000 cars from asia as soon as quotas endwhich is why it is the only member of the big three saying the quotas should be scrapped. chrysler  gets about 8% of its sales from cars built by mitsubishi. a chrysler executive says that if quotas come off next year the percentage would more than double: the mitsubishi vehicles are more profitable than any small car chrysler builds at home. (at the same time. mitsubishi would probably try to build up its own dealer network in the u.s.) later this year chairman lee lacocca will have to decide where to invest more than $600 million to build a replacement for the aging onni/horizon line. if quotas look likely to end. chrysler officials say. the new car may be manufactured overseas. ford isnt talking. but the companys next small car could come from mazdaford owns 25%-or from ford assembly plants in mexico. "removing the japanese quota would affect gm. ford. and chrysler in different ways." says gary glaser. an auto analyst at the brokerage firm of sanford c. bernstein. "but its  at all clear that earnings at any of the companies would go down." one pothole mars the path of gm and ford. the federal law kn as cafe (for corporate average fuel ecoy) penalizes car companies whose autos dont on average meet a government standard of 27 mpg (to rise to 27.5 next year). once gm starts importing lots of small cars that arent included in the average. it could be left with a do. mestic fleet of large cars that cant make the grade. ford could )e in some trouble too if sales of its moneylosing subcompact escort fall after tile quotas demise. its ltds and lincolns are gasguzzlers by comparison. and even todays healthy escort sales are barely egh to keep the company above the standard. only chrysler is safe: it doesnt sell many big cars. martin anderson. who was an analyst at the national highway traffic safety administration when cafe was imposed on the country. calls it "the stupidest piece of public policy ive ever seen." it will punish carmakers for providing what consumers manifestly want: a mix of cheap small cars and comfortable big ones. anderson estimates that ford and gm could be liable for cafe fines of $300 million to $500 million in 1985but. he es. thats still a bargain compared with the bill for continuing to build small cars under detroits current cost structure. the most compelling reason for expecting more breathing room is that the japanese have gone into a deep think of their own about how the world auto market will play out over the next 20 years. in the short term japanese carmakers are feasting off the quotas. japans stagnant home market has been so torn by price wars that cars generally sell at or below cost.  so in the u.s.. where import restraintswith a fixed allotment of vehicles for each companyallow the automakers to avoid the risky business of fighting for market share and concentrate on making money. its nearly impossible to tell from public reports how much of the japanese auto companies profits come from the u.s.. but industry experts estimate the figure is about 80% for toyota and even more than that for nissan. they pont to subaru of america as an exanple of what quotas have done for the japanese. with world sales of $1 billion. tiny subaru sells only tow modest subcompact models in the u.s.-vans. sports cars. or fancy sedans. and. like its large compatriots. the company has enjoyed little increase in u.s. unit sales since quotas were slapped on. yet the companys earnings per share have zoomed from $1.79 five years ago to $8.15 last year. in 1984 analysis expect subarus pershare profits to reach $10. small wonder. then. that miti  says it would  object to seeing the quotas stay in place for aher year. apart from enjoying high profits in the short run. the japanese want to avoid stricter protectionist measures in the long run. one official told a tokyo newspaper recently that. even if restraints were officially removed. miti would  permit "a heavy rain of cars" on the u.s. "they would  want to exceed 20% of the u.s. market." or about the current japanese share. predicts maryann keller. an auto analyst at the new york money management firm vilaspischer & associates. "theyll aim for a tolerable level of animosity." but free markets are rough places that bureaucrats chronically misjudge. mitis influence over japanese manufacturers is  allpowerful. and the smaller companies that were awarded tiny quotas three years ago will doubtless be itching to get into the u.s. market in a bigger way. as they do so. detroitfreed from quotas itselfwill respond with imports from korea and elsewhere. one can be sure a pricecutting freeforall wouldnt erupt in the u.s. just as it has in japan. on the other hand. lower prices should expand the market. while opinions vary on how much the u.s. market can grow over the next few years. many industry experts contend that between one and two million american consumers who  buy used cars would buy a new small car if they could afford one. if thats the case. an influx of lowpriced small cars would lure those stickershocked shoppers back into the showrooms (relegating a proportional share of the rapidly aging usedcar fleet to the scrapyards). consumers would clearly benefit from such a ferociously free market. the u.s. industry. with its global resources. might even prosper. but how many cars are built in the u.s. will depend less on fiats from washington than on decisions made in dftroit. the industrys efforts to modernize will require a lot of help from the uaw. long a standardbearer for enlightened trade unionism but lately turned protectionist. the pressures on the leadership are terrible (fortune. april 16) and were worsened by the letthegoodtimesroll rewards the industry bestowed on management this spring.  the rank and file wants some goodies too. and the constracts to be negotiated this summer could be crucial for tile indmistry. quo as are a solethile thilng. in tile lolig run. jobs -an be preserved only by a competitive labor force.e
 in tokyo. has concluded from his research that auto industry productivity in japan is 2% times greater than in the u.s. and still growing at 8% a year as the manufacturers automate. the u.s. industry should be able to narrow the gap with improvements in design. factory organization. and automation. japanese automakers building cars in the u.s. are tightlipped about their costsand the manufacturing techniques they are usingbut some of them. at least. appear to think they can compete with the home factories. one optimistic school of thought holds that u.s. automakers can do even better than the japanese if they try hard egh over a long egh period. a giant company like gm is slow to change. says david cole. director of automotive studies at the university of michigan. "but in a way that tremendous size is a real advantage." he argues. "they can use their operations as one emous laboratory. where hundreds of experiments are going on all the time. when all the best practices are consolidated. theyll have generated a new production system internally." cole thinks detroitss efforts can pay off in a costcompetitive small car by 1989. gm thinks so too. in an operation called project saturn. gm is "starting with a clean sheet of paper." as chairman roger b. smith puts it. to design a new generation of small cars that would be on the market before the end of the decade. gm will build the wedgeshaped saturn using large numbers of socalled intelligent robots that can do complex tasks. along with teams of workers responsible for whole subassemblies. many components. like frontend sections. will reach the final assembly line already made up into modules. chrysler claims to be embarked on a similar effortpresumably on a smaller scale. given its lesser resources. the end of the decade is an awful lot of breathing room for the industry to expect. but over the next five years several factors. political and ecoic. will work in detroits favor. in the near term it may well get an extension of the quotas. though perhaps with some annual growth rate for japanese imports. walter mondale has pledged to continue quotasprovided u.s. auto companies promise to reinvest their profits on american soil. the reagan administration has avoided taking any position on the matter. claiming that brocks freetrade talk reflects only his personal opinion. reagans campaign strategists cant help but ice that 74% of the electoral votes needed tp win the election are in industrial states. where protectionist feeling runs high. reagans reticence is more complicated. however. than mere electionyear fencestraddling. japan. because of its powerful farm lobby. is still virtually shutting out u.s. agricultural imports despite administration efforts to pry that market open even if quotas end next year. detroit is unlikely to return to its sickbed. one pleasant surpriseand a big part of the reason for the rapid runup in detroits earningshas been the return to popularity of the relatively big and luxurious car. demand for cadillacs. lincolns. oldsmobile cutlass supremes. and the like shifted into high gear as soon as oil prices began to drop two years ago: sales are  at two million a year. or about 25% of the market. one in detroit expects bigcar sales to accelerate forever. but its a heady ride while it lasts: profit margins range from $2.000 to $6.000 per car. in this segment of the market the japanese dont compete at all. "the u.s. is the only market in the world for these cars." es martin anderson. "it isnt practical for the japanese to build them in any volume." big cars arent the only ace detroit is holding. figuring that japanese import restraints have to end sometime. all three major auto companies have made plans either to build small cars overseas or import cars to sell under u.s. labels. or both. general motors has been the most aggressive. om  has a 34% equity in the japanese automaker isuzu. a 5% stake in suzuki. and 50% of south koreas daewoo. gm wants to start importing some 300.000 cars from asia as soon as quotas endwhich is why it is the only member of the big three saying the quotas should be scrapped. chrysler  gets about 8% of its sales from cars built by mitsubishi. a chrysler executive says that if quotas come off next year the percentage would more than double: the mitsubishi vehicles are more profitable than any small car chrysler builds at home. (at the same time. mitsubishi would probably try to build up its own dealer network in the u.s.) later this year chairman lee lacocca will have to decide where to invest more than $600 million to build a replacement for the aging onni/horizon line. if quotas look likely to end. chrysler officials say. the new car may be manufactured overseas. ford isnt talking. but the companys next small car could come from mazdaford owns 25%-or from ford assembly plants in mexico. "removing the japanese quota would affect gm. ford. and chrysler in different ways." says gary glaser. an auto analyst at the brokerage firm of sanford c. bernstein. "but its  at all clear that earnings at any of the companies would go down." one pothole mars the path of gm and ford. the federal law kn as cafe (for corporate average fuel ecoy) penalizes car companies whose autos dont on average meet a government standard of 27 mpg (to rise to 27.5 next year). once gm starts importing lots of small cars that arent included in the average. it could be left with a do. mestic fleet of large cars that cant make the grade. ford could )e in some trouble too if sales of its moneylosing subcompact escort fall after tile quotas demise. its ltds and lincolns are gasguzzlers by comparison. and even todays healthy escort sales are barely egh to keep the company above the standard. only chrysler is safe: it doesnt sell many big cars. martin anderson. who was an analyst at the national highway traffic safety administration when cafe was imposed on the country. calls it "the stupidest piece of public policy ive ever seen." it will punish carmakers for providing what consumers manifestly want: a mix of cheap small cars and comfortable big ones. anderson estimates that ford and gm could be liable for cafe fines of $300 million to $500 million in 1985but. he es. thats still a bargain compared with the bill for continuing to build small cars under detroits current cost structure. the most compelling reason for expecting more breathing room is that the japanese have gone into a deep think of their own about how the world auto market will play out over the next 20 years. in the short term japanese carmakers are feasting off the quotas. japans stagnant home market has been so torn by price wars that cars generally sell at or below cost.  so in the u.s.. where import restraintswith a fixed allotment of vehicles for each companyallow the automakers to avoid the risky business of fighting for market share and concentrate on making money. its nearly impossible to tell from public reports how much of the japanese auto companies profits come from the u.s.. but industry experts estimate the figure is about 80% for toyota and even more than that for nissan. they pont to subaru of america as an exanple of what quotas have done for the japanese. with world sales of $1 billion. tiny subaru sells only tow modest subcompact models in the u.s.-vans. sports cars. or fancy sedans. and. like its large compatriots. the company has enjoyed little increase in u.s. unit sales since quotas were slapped on. yet the companys earnings per share have zoomed from $1.79 five years ago to $8.15 last year. in 1984 analysis expect subarus pershare profits to reach $10. small wonder. then. that miti  says it would  object to seeing the quotas stay in place for aher year. apart from enjoying high profits in the short run. the japanese want to avoid stricter protectionist measures in the long run. one official told a tokyo newspaper recently that. even if restraints were officially removed. miti would  permit "a heavy rain of cars" on the u.s. "they would  want to exceed 20% of the u.s. market." or about the current japanese share. predicts maryann keller. an auto analyst at the new york money management firm vilaspischer & associates. "theyll aim for a tolerable level of animosity." but free markets are rough places that bureaucrats chronically misjudge. mitis influence over japanese manufacturers is  allpowerful. and the smaller companies that were awarded tiny quotas three years ago will doubtless be itching to get into the u.s. market in a bigger way. as they do so. detroitfreed from quotas itselfwill respond with imports from korea and elsewhere. one can be sure a pricecutting freeforall wouldnt erupt in the u.s. just as it has in japan. on the other hand. lower prices should expand the market. while opinions vary on how much the u.s. market can grow over the next few years. many industry experts contend that between one and two million american consumers who  buy used cars would buy a new small car if they could afford one. if thats the case. an influx of lowpriced small cars would lure those stickershocked shoppers back into the showrooms (relegating a proportional share of the rapidly aging usedcar fleet to the scrapyards). consumers would clearly benefit from such a ferociously free market. the u.s. industry. with its global resources. might even prosper. but how many cars are built in the u.s. will depend less on fiats from washington than on decisions made in dftroit. the industrys efforts to modernize will require a lot of help from the uaw. long a standardbearer for enlightened trade unionism but lately turned protectionist. the pressures on the leadership are terrible (fortune. april 16) and were worsened by the letthegoodtimesroll rewards the industry bestowed on management this spring.  the rank and file wants some goodies too. and the constracts to be negotiated this summer could be crucial for tile indmistry. quo as are a solethile thilng. in tile lolig run. jobs -an be preserved only by a competitive labor force.e
. i took up the cudgels for this. and we prevailed twice on the floor. to the best of my memory. certainly. a little over a year ago on the floor of the senate we prevailed in eliminating the price supports for honey. the argument for these will be forcefully presented by the distinguished junior senator from colorado. all i want to say is that i think he is right on target. we have kn from the history of these price supports on honey. they all go to a very few rich honey producers. it is  the person that has a few bees. a few hives. that benefits. so. first of all. it is a subsidy for the rich. indeed. it has prompted a distortion of the honey sales in the united states. the price support is so high for honey that the flood of imports is coming into the united states to reach the market level. so we have an incongruous situation. the u.s. government buying honey. preserving it. keeping the price high for the price supports. and meanwhile a flood of imports to take care of the mal purchaser who wants to buy some honey. there is one other point. some will say that it is essential to have these price supports so we can have bees for pollination. that is sense. that argument holds water whatsoever. the pollination is done by those who transport bees around and has hing to do with those who benefit from the price supports on honey. so i congratulate our distinguished colleague and urge him on to success. thank you.
. i am pleased to join in support of the amendment  pending before the senate. it has been a long. long time12 years. to be exactsince the senate last debated product liability issues. and i pay tribute to my colleagues from wisconsin and missouri and the many others who kept working tirelessly and patiently on this matter. as an original cosponsor of the freestanding legislation from which this amendment is derived. and a cosponsor of the amendment itself. i believe that this legislation will bring some muchneeded uniformity to the product liability system. for the benefit of consumers and the wellbeing of our national ecoy. our current system just does  make sense. we have seen an explosion in the number of product liability cases in the past decade. and this increase has imposed heavy costsboth financial and socialon american consumers and the overall u.s. ecoy. if we want to maintain the united states comparatively high quality of life and our international competitiveness. we must inject a dose of common sense. of rationality. into the manner by which we guard against dangerous products. the significantjump in federal and state court product liability lawsuits has meant that companies are spending a considerable amount of time. money. and resources on defendingor being prepared to defendagainst lawsuits. and likewise. the cost of lawsuit insurance has gone up. the fact that these resources are being committed to lawsuitsor the possibility thereofis of obvious concern to manufacturers: they have choice but to spend moneys on legal actions and insurance. rather than on research and development of new products and product improvements. in turn. they fall behind in their ability to keep up with domestic and international competitors. and that decreasing competitiveness is bad news for our overall ecoy. how does this work. the lack of a uniform product liability standard translates into widespread uncertainty among businesses with regard to their liability exposure. such uncertainty prevents companies from making basic longrange business plans. and it breed excessive corporate timidity with regard to new initiatives. in turn. this allows foreign competitors a price and ination advantage in both u.s. and international markets. for the nations ecoy. the end result is less manufacturing. less productivity. less ination. and less longterm stability. is this the way we hope to ensure our national competitiveness into the next century. simply put. right  there are uniform rules to allow companies to assess the kind of liability risks they may face with certain of their products. who ks when some producteven if used in direct contradiction to product instructions. or if used in a situation where the company has controlmay be sued. i have a letter here from mine safety appliances co.. which has a factory in my home state. they e that they were sued in a case where a lumberman. wearing msas hard hat. was tragically killed when he was hit by a falling redwood tree weighing more than 4.000 pounds. the hard hat. which met ansi standards okd by osha. was deemed defective in this case. yet what headgear mfay 12. 19929 would  be defective when pitted against a giant redwood. since a company can accurately gauge which products may be subject to product liability lawsuits. many companies simply discontinue product ination research. or a promising new product line itself. there are several examples of inative american products that have been abandoned due to actual or perceived liability risks. monsanto co. dropped the planned production of a potential asbestos substitute. dyneet corp. stopped production of a helicopter clutch as a result of prohibitive insurance costs. dozens of companies in my own state of rhode island have written to me to confirm the stifling effect of our current system on their ability to develop and manufacture inative new products. a clear example of how liability uncertainty has decimated an industry is that of the experience of the u.s. general aviation industry. despite the fact that fatal accidents in general aviation have gone down and stayed down. claim and defense costs have shot up. and the cost to the industry is more than $200 million. these costswhich per plane  exceed the cost of manufacturing of certain aircrafthave been devastating for general aviation. aircraft manufacturers are spending thousands of dollars on legal defense costs instead of on new or perfecting techogies. cessna aircraft. piper aircraft. and beech aircraft have been scaling back or halting production of some aircraft. and that has caused employment to drop precipitously. and the cost of every new plane made by piper includes a full $75.000 in extra costs to help piper pay for liability insurance. but you might ask: why does this matter to the average american family. why does it matter to consumers that a manufacturer is putting its financial and human resources to work on legal cases and  on product development. why does it make any difference to families if businesses hesitate to develop new and promising products. answer. it matters a great deal. first of all. it matters when americans go to the store to buy goods for their family. the prices consumers pay for a product often can include a substantial safety tax that goes toward covering the manufacturers litigation costs. an even more basic and important product for everyday families: lederle laboratories the sole manufacturer of diptheria. pertussis. and tetanus [dptj vaccineshas bumped its price per vaccine from $2.80 to $11.40about a 400percent increase. why. to cover the legal costs associated with the vaccine. much of these safety taxes isnt even made up of legitimate payments to victims. but rather consists sclely of transaction costslegal costslawyers. that is worth emphasizing: the general accounting office calculates that of the estimated $120 billion in yearly ecoic costs associated with the tort system. at most 40 percent of these billions ends up going to those who were seriously and wrongfully injured. the remainder goes towho elsethe lawyers. second. it matters to american men and women in terms of simple job opportunity. companies that are busy paying for legal fees dont have the wherewithal or the inclination to expand production. that means expanded employment opportunities. indeed. many companies are doing just the opposite. and cutting back production. that means the loss of existing jobs. that is the last thing this nation needs right . finally. and this can be underestimated. americans and their families pay a great deal in terms of the worldren american ination and creativity that is lost. stifled. or paralyzed by corporate caution as a result of lawsuits. lawsuits. and more lawsuits. when u.s. companies hesitate to put their resources into a promising product development because of fears about potentially devastating liability. those new products may never be developed. as a result. americans lose the possibility of enjoying the ofttme significant social benefit of that product. we as a society lose an opportunity to improve the quality of ourand our childrenslives. the best example of this is that of childrens vaccinations. we are down to one companyin all of the united states--that will take on the task of producing dpt vaccines. and that is lederle. likewise. there is only one producer of the measles vaccine. and that company has stated that the product remains on the market  for ecoic reasons. but out of the companys sense of social responsibility. and vaccines are by means the only worthwhile consumer product  endangered by liability exposure. the list of other products and potential products is virtually too lengthy to name. a e about the injured party in product liability cases: those who believe that the current system justly and promptly compensates the victim and deters future malicious corporate behavior are sadly mistaken. persons who have been injured or hurt by defective products often do  reap the majority of the money expended in these cases. and if they do receive their rightful award. it is likely to be after literally years and years and years of waiting for the court battles to be resolved. one wants to curtail the ability of victims to recover deserved compensation. but the current system just doesnt deliver. we need reform. in sum. given the financial. competitive. and social costs of an overly unpredictable product liability system. i believe that some reform must take place. the difficulty lies in determining how we can assure that consumers are protected from corporate negligence and victims are fully compensated for their injuries. while ensuring that inent manufacturers can make longrange plans and are protected from frivolous or unwarranted lawsuits. in other words. we need to keep a deterrent value alive. but we have to curb some of the misusesor outright abusesin the system that is costing all of us dearly. the amendment before us incorporates both the overall liability bill and senator kassebaums general aviation liability bill . i believe that this omnibus amendment before us accomplishes the goal of fair and balanced reform. and i wholeheartedly support it. i compliment the tenacity of my colleagues senators kasten. danforth. and kassebaum. and i stand with them in their effort to get this measure enacted into law.
. i commend the senator from missouri for this amendment. it is an excellent one. what it will do is have a wetland of a larger size than would be under mal conditions. when they do damage to a wetland. they create a new wetland next to the highway. to have it in the socalled mitigation bank is a far superior way of operating. and i commend the senator. the amendment will improve the mitigation that is done to offset the loss and degradation of wetlands as a result of highway projects. we have suffered unacceptable wetlands lossesmore than half of the estimated 220 million acres that existed when the nation was founded have been lost. transportation has unintended but negative consequences on the nations wetlands. the original istea recognized this by establishing wetlands mitigation as an eligible expense of a states highway construction funds. mitigation banking is an inative concept that allows a person who wishes to fill a wetlands to compensate for that loss by obtaining credits representing positive wetlands function generated at a nearby site. it is the perfect example of a forwardlooking environmental policy that offers more bang for the buck. with respect to highway construction. mitigation banking offers several potential advantages over onsite. individual mitigation. a mitigation bank. unlike onsite mitigation. can consolidate wetlands compensation where it is most ecologically beneficial. moreover. mitigation banking helps to achieve the goal of "net loss" of the nations wetlands by providing additional opportunities to compensate for impacted wetlands. so i thank senators bond and breaux again for their work on this. we are prepared to accept the amendment.
i say to the distinguished senator that he is absolutely right. without the money. this bill isnt going to amount to much. so we treat the members of the finance committee and the chairman with great deference since he provides the wherewithal to make this whole program fly. the amendment they will present will extend the highway trust fund taxes for 6 years. it will extend the highway trust fund expenditure authority for 6 years. it creates a 15project pilot program dealing with taxexempt bonds for privatepublic partnerships. it has a whole series of provisions that have been worked out in the finance committee. it is crucial to this legislation. so once we get that dealt with. which i certainly hope wont take long. we can then move on to the banking committee amendment. i have just heard through the grapevine that the banking committee amendment. which deals with mass transit. will be ready tomorrow. but. as everyone ks. there is a cloture vote coming up at 5 or 5:30. it would seem to me that they should get that banking committee amendment in. or there will be all kinds of problems should cloture be invoked since that would  be germane to the bill.
. i commend the senator from missouri for this amendment. it is an excellent one. what it will do is have a wetland of a larger size than would be under mal conditions. when they do damage to a wetland. they create a new wetland next to the highway. to have it in the socalled mitigation bank is a far superior way of operating. and i commend the senator. the amendment will improve the mitigation that is done to offset the loss and degradation of wetlands as a result of highway projects. we have suffered unacceptable wetlands lossesmore than half of the estimated 220 million acres that existed when the nation was founded have been lost. transportation has unintended but negative consequences on the nations wetlands. the original istea recognized this by establishing wetlands mitigation as an eligible expense of a states highway construction funds. mitigation banking is an inative concept that allows a person who wishes to fill a wetlands to compensate for that loss by obtaining credits representing positive wetlands function generated at a nearby site. it is the perfect example of a forwardlooking environmental policy that offers more bang for the buck. with respect to highway construction. mitigation banking offers several potential advantages over onsite. individual mitigation. a mitigation bank. unlike onsite mitigation. can consolidate wetlands compensation where it is most ecologically beneficial. moreover. mitigation banking helps to achieve the goal of "net loss" of the nations wetlands by providing additional opportunities to compensate for impacted wetlands. so i thank senators bond and breaux again for their work on this. we are prepared to accept the amendment.
i say to the distinguished senator that he is absolutely right. without the money. this bill isnt going to amount to much. so we treat the members of the finance committee and the chairman with great deference since he provides the wherewithal to make this whole program fly. the amendment they will present will extend the highway trust fund taxes for 6 years. it will extend the highway trust fund expenditure authority for 6 years. it creates a 15project pilot program dealing with taxexempt bonds for privatepublic partnerships. it has a whole series of provisions that have been worked out in the finance committee. it is crucial to this legislation. so once we get that dealt with. which i certainly hope wont take long. we can then move on to the banking committee amendment. i have just heard through the grapevine that the banking committee amendment. which deals with mass transit. will be ready tomorrow. but. as everyone ks. there is a cloture vote coming up at 5 or 5:30. it would seem to me that they should get that banking committee amendment in. or there will be all kinds of problems should cloture be invoked since that would  be germane to the bill.
the senator from wisconsin remarked about the situation of twa with the cutbacks in equipment orders. clearly. twa understands. as does. i think. the american banking fraternity. that the airline industry is surfeited with equipment right .
. i rise in support of the amtrak legislation. and particularly. at the outset. to commend the senator from indiana. and indeed the entire commerce committee. for being the first to stand up with a forward look at what is required to produce a balanced transportation system in these united states. we have had a great deal of negative talk. some of it generated by myself and others. against the way funds are allocated in the united states for the various forms of transportation. specifically. i and others have criticized the highway trust fund as being a fund which puts too much emphasis on highways as a resolution to our transportation problem. the senator from indiana and the members of the commerce committee have come forth with a positive response by making a meaningful commitment in the area of rail transportation. the bill before us calls for some $420 million in possible funding270 million in cash and $150 million in loan guarantees$420 million compared to some $10 billion that will be spent on highways and $4 billion for airports. i also want to commend the senator from indiana. because the forward look which he and the members of his committee have given to rail transportation is  something new. it was almost a year ago that he and other senators pointed out that. the funding that was given to amtrak was woefully inadequate and doomed it to failure from the outset. in effect. what we did was set up a corporation to pass the debt from private hands to the taxpayers of this nation. and we did  give amtrak the wherewithal to create better service. better rightsofway. acquire new equipment. and do all the things necessary to brake the cycle of deficits which had become critical when the rails were in private hands. in effect. we said. "let us put it into a government corporation and then give it just egh money to cover operating deficits in the year ahead." originally the bill. which the senate is being asked to pass today. called for $170 million to be allocated to operating deficits incurred between  and july 1. 1973. certainly. that does  bespeak any great optimism in what is going to happen. but what the senator from indiana and his subcommittee and the commerce committee are doing in this bill is giving additional funds earmarked specifically for capital improvements. if you run the same trains over the same rightsofway in the same manner. you are going to end up with the same deficits. i do  think that is what the american people expected when amtrak was established. but. unfortunately. a fullpage advertisement in the newspaper and a highsounding name does  put one new car on the track. does  create one new rightofway. does  employ one new way of railroading. to do that requires money. so i think it important to point out that the efforts of the committee in this direction were  to provide just additional funding. i iced in the newspapers. after the commerce committee had reported the bill out of committee. that it was stated new funding had been added to the bill which had  been requested. let me point out that that was  what was important. we did  seek increased funding for its own sake. today marks a new day. a real departure in the thinking of this legislative body as to what our transportation system-
we could carry on this debate. i think the record of ripoffs insofar as the individuals and the corporate entities are concerned. as they relate to the railroad industry. is one of the saddest chapters in private enterprise in this country. all i k is that we are trying to maintain a viability to something that is essential to the ecoy. i would prefer that private enterprise stepped up and said. we will be glad to take over the penn central. and we would  have to lay out 1 cent of taxpayer funds. ody wants it. that is the difficulty. ody wants it.
i do  think the senator from indiana or the senator from connecticut has pretended this is anything other than what it is. which is that the u.s. government is going to get into the business of creating rail systems and having to support them. hopefully. we will  have to do it on a total basis such as in the case of highways. hopefully the healthy railroads will be able to stay that way. we do  want to get into it any more than we have to. but do we have to. the answer is yes. in regard to the $5 billion the distinguished senator from indiana mentioned as being the total costi think maybe he is low on that. we spent in the theast alone last year $4.5 billion on highways. that i think puts it into focus. yes.- $5 billion is a lot of money to anybody. but do we have to. does government. in order to create a complete and a satisfactory transportation system. have to involve itself in rails as indeed it has involved itself in highways. and the answer is yes. m. allen. well. i recall when this legislation was up back in 1973. the organizational merger or consolidation of these bankrupt railroads. there was a moratorium in there saying they would  abandon any of these lines. these competing and duplicating lines. for a period of 18 months. indicating they were trying to maintain the status quo that had brought them to bankruptcy. which did  seem to be very good legislation.
 i respond in the following: first of all. i think the senator from california puts his finger exactly on what the compromise with the house of representatives in conference was meant to achieve. and that is flexibility. very frankly. as one who believes in competition. i think the maximum number of people out there to provide the services is the best thing that could happen to small business. sometimes  all government advice is bad advice and  all business advice is good advice. or reverse that if you will. what we tried to achieve was to point the direction for the private sector. but clearly leave it that if it could come from the university sector or come from the government sector that was fine also. i do  think that i or the distinguished senator from wisconsin need any lectures on the fact that we are  for small business. that we want everything in the hands of the government. we are the ones who devote a good portion of our time here in the senate to small business and the private sector. we are on the committee. that is our job.  to go ahead and further the interest of government but to further the interest of the small businessman. when the senator goes ahead and glues it into the private sector. which is what he and those who are lobbying for this bill believe. that becomes a very unhealthy situation as far as lack of competition. the reason why this legislation was passed in the first instance was there was help coming to small businesses.  the private sector says. "we want to go ahead and do it." there  is some sort of vehicle available to do it. they did  do it when the help was needed. i stood on this floor and suoported the senators amendment. i think he is correct in stating what he did. that where services can be performed by private enterprise. they should be able to perform those services if they are capable of it and if they are warranted. if the circumstances so dictate. i want flexibility. the very term that the senator from california used. all that is done through the conference report. i think it is also important to point out that even though this was an important matter in conference. it was  the only matter in conference. when it was stated a little while ago that this was the only matter at issue. that was  a correct statement. a very large matter was at issue. that is. the handling of disaster loans. this matter resolved satisfactorily the concerns expressed by the senator from oklahoma and the senator from maine (mr. muskie) who were fighting for budgetary responsibility.
. i can think of finer example of the kind of ingenuity. perservance. dedication. and drive that make our small businesses great than the one presented by ruth cohen. where there were challenges. she met them with optimism. determination. and a practical tough mindedness. where there were trials. she handled them with a characteristic frankness and indefatigability. most important. she never quit. as i said at the beginning of my statement. i want to commend ruth and to congratulate her for being awarded this ho. and i also want to thank her for showing us all what the oldfashioned virtues of hard work and gutsy determination car accomplish. ruth cohens example should be an inspiration to us all. she is a credit to the small business community. to the state of connecticut. and is justly deserving of the title of "small business person of the year."
does the senator think it is the taxpayers responsibility to bail out a private business concern that has gotten into this situation. if  because of poor management. let us assume because of miscalculations of what the airline business would be in 1972. 1973. and 1974. the senator from georgia has already said it is an overcrowded market. and if it is an overcrowded market. why does lockheed want to come into such an already overcrowded market. can anyone predict that in the next year or 2 or 3 years the market is  going to be overcrowded. and what do we do in the interim. put the planes in mothballs.
. i rise today to speak in support of the conference report on h.r. 8835.  being considered by the senate. at the outset of these remarks. let me say that i support unequivocally the actions taken by the conferees. of which i was one. and i commend your banking committee chairman. senator proxmire. as well as the subcommittee chairman. senator biden. and the ranking miity member. senator garn for the leadership which they have so ably demonstrated with respect to this legislation. as ed in your banking committees report which accompanied h.r. 8835. the growth of personal property leasing by consumers has been rapid and substantial. this growth has resulted from the fact that many consumers have discovered. in recent years. that a lease provides an attractive alternative to traditional sales financing. the committee found. however. that while consumers have been obtaining full and complete information generally with respect to the cost of traditional sales financing because of the truthinlending act. cost and other disclosures in the leasing area have often been inadequate to fully inform consumers regarding the consequences of their actions. the need for adequate consumer lease disclosures became abundantly apparent to your banking committee during the course of its deliberations. in this respect. one of the forms of openend leases with which your committee was most concerned involved the socalled net or finance leaseas defined in section 57(c) of the internal revenue codewhich guarantees the lessor a specified return. or guarantees him in whole or in part against loss of income. indeed. this form of lease was highlighted in your committees report on h.r. 8835. and the conferees were equally concerned with the implications surrounding the use of such a lease. the net or finance lease is the most widely used form of lease pertaining to motor vehicles. under such a lease. the lessorordinarily a bank or automobile dealercontracts with a lessee that the lessee meet monthly rental payments which are designed both to reimburse the lessor for the reduction in market value of his vehiclethat is. depreciationand to provide him with a specified return. generally. the lessee may terminate such a lease after 1 year. with a rental adjustment thereafter designed to guarantee the lessor such specified return or to guarantee him in whole or in part against loss of income. at the termination of such a lease. the vehicle is sold. if the vehicle is sold for less than its depreciated value. as originally estimated. the lessee is responsible for reimbursing the lessor for the difference between this value and the sales price. conversely. if the vehicle is sold for more than such depreciated value. the lessee receives the excess as a retrospective adjustment in rent. most lessors offer this form of lease because the lessee or user holds possession and control of the leased vehicle and. through adequate or inadequate maintenance. has the power to enhance or reduce the value of such leased property. thus. the rental adjustment at the conclusion of the lease provides an incentive for the lessee or user adequately to maintain the vehicle in his possession. it is possible under such a lease arrangement. however. to set the periodic specified rents so low during the lease term that a substantial deficiency is destined to result. if so. and the lessee is  apprised of this distinct probability. the lessee will  be cognizant of the full extent of his lease obligations. accordingly. the disclosure provisions of the instant bill are designed to alleviate this situation. and provide consumers with the type of information which is necessary to make reasonable and intelligent decisions prior to undertaking lease commitments. for the foregoing reasons and others. i support the conference report as i supported the actions of your banking committee. moreover. i urge my colleagues in the senate to act favorably on the report at this time.
the committee amendments to the bill. as has just been stated. were agreed to on january 12. this bill relates to parking conditions. and provides authority for improving those conditions in the district of columbia. at -the preceding call of the calendar. when the bill was reached. objection was made by the junior senator from connecticut . but since then i have conferred with him in detail. he made several constructive suggestions and he has authorized me to state that he aproves the bill with certain amendments. which i will  send to the desk. these amendments also have been approved by the corporation counsel for the district of columbia. and are recommended by the chairman of the district committee and myself.
earlier this year. the u.s. railway associations preliminary systems plan for restructuring the railroads of the theast and midwest was made public. as farreaching as this plan is with its recommendations for establishment of conrail. its assessments of the billions of dollars needed to rehabilitate the bankrupt rail lines and its references to confac or some other governmental structure which would own the rightsofway and maintain the tracks and rail beds. i think part of the report was more significant than the section devoted to the branch lines. while conrail and confac are big concepts which may challenge us intellectually and philosophically. the fate of some 7.000 miles of branch lines touches all of us just a little differently. branch lines are a part of the commerce of our country. for example. here is a summary of the public response at a hearing in trenton on discontinuance of a portion of the high bridge branch which connects high bridge and ferremont junction. n.j.: thatcher glass of wharton was concerned about the circuitous routing its sand shipments would be forced to use without this line. the halecrest quarry. located on the mt. hope mineral rr which connects the cnj near wharton went into operation in ermber of 1974 and had shipped 125 carloads over the high bridge line by march of sears roebuck and company is planning a new distribution center which would generate 2.5003.000 piggyback loads and 500750 carloads per year. without rail service sears states that the facility will be built elsewhere. or from the public response on the plans to discontinue the pleasantville track which runs from pleasantville to mckee city: lumber distributers inc. at pleasantville reports 90 carloads per year in 1973. 100 in 1974 and expects 105 in 1975 ... atlantic plastic containers inc. would halt plans to operate its plant 24 hours a day which would have increased employment by 55 and traffic by 90 cars per year. sico steel corp. would cancel further plans to develop an industrial park. atlantic city electric co. receives transformers at mckee city whose height and weight characteristics necessitate continued rail service. i do  think these are unusual examples of how branch lines contribute to the ecoic health of our communities and directly and indirectly make coinmerce. particularly in the theast. what it is. believing in the importance of these branch lines. i am anxious to see them fairly evaluated. all of us k that there are some branch lines which should be discontinued. but when a decision is made which may lead to eventual discontinuance. it should be made on the basis of full and complete evidence. and i am convinced that there is egh difference between facts as presented at public hearings and data on which the preliminary systems plan was based to justify a review of the branch line proposals. for this reason. today i am introducing legislation to amend the regional rail reorganization act of 1973 so as to postpone for 2 years those decisions which would exclude certain local service rail lines from the rail system to be operated by consolidated rail corporation. local service lines which the u.s. railway association. in its final system plan. finds  required to provide rail service under the provisions of the act would be operated by conrail or aher designated carrier during the 2year interim period under 100 percent federal subsidy. during that period. the rail services planning office would conduct a study of each such local service line and would report its conclusions and recommendations to conrail. the bill also provides for the analysis and possible return to service of rail lines that are out of service upon the effective date of the final system plan or which nust be placed out of service subsequently because of natural disaster or failure to meet safety standards. at the end of the interim period. the conrail would submit to the congress a local service plan designating which of these lines should be retained in its system and which should be either abandoned or subsidized by state or local interests under the 70to30 matching grant subsidy program of the act. the congress would have the same opportunity to review the local service plan as it has with respect to the final system plan under the act as  written. following the 2year interim period. the subsidy program of title iv of the act would come into effect for an additional 2 years. s. 1946 be it enacted by the senate and house o/ representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled. that this act may be cited as the local rail service amendments of 1975. sec. 2 (a) the congress finds that(1) decisions which would result in the permanent loss of railroad facilities which may be necessary for the performance of transportation services essential to meet the needs of the united states today or in the future are of great concern to users of rail service. communities. those employed by railroads and by businesses dependent upon railroad service. and other concerned citizens. (2) the information currently available to the congress. the united states railway association. the rail services planning office and the consolidated rail corporation is  sufficient to permit the making of such decisions on an informed and rational basis. (3) further study and consideration must be given to the determination of which local services lines should be included or excluded from the restructured railroad system. (b) it is. therefore. declared to be the purpose of this act to establish procedures for reviewing localservice line decisions which will(1) give full and adequate consideration to the national goals specified in section 206(a) of the regional rail reorganization act of 1973. (2) permit branch line decisions which will be based on the consolidated rail corporations costs and operating characteristics. rather than those of a bankrupt carrier. (3) permit branch line decisions to reflect service frequency levels negotiated by users and carriers and  estimates by the bankrupt railroads of service frequencies in 1973. (4) require the corporation to establish branchspecific cost accounts for all lines. permitting more accurate cost estimates to be anticipated on lines for which subsidies will be offered. (5) permit determination of revenue received by the corporation rather than by a bankrnpt carrier for traffic generated on each line. (6) permit an objective analysis of overhead traffic which would use each branch line under the corporations actual operating pattern. (7) provide the states in the region. as defined in such act. with financial assistance cud additional time in which to perform the comprehensive analyses required to develop state rail plans. sec. 3. section 102 of the regional rail reorganization act of 1973 (45 u.s.c. 702) is amended(a) by striking out "and" at the end of paragraph (14). (b) by striking out the period at the end of paragraph (15) and inserting in lieu thereof ". and" and (c) by adding at the end thereof the following new paragraph: "(16) local service plan means the plan prepared and approved pursuant to section 307 of this act describing which of those lines  transferred to the corporation or to a profitable railroad pursuant to the final system plan should be so transferred." see. 4. section 203(a) of the regional rail reorganization act of 1973 (45 u.s.c. 713(a) ) is amended by striking out the last sentence thereof. sec. 5. section 205(d) (3) of the regional rail reorganization act of 1973 (45 u.s.c. 715(d) (3)) is amended by striking out " and" and by adding at the end thereof a period and the following: "within 90 days following the effective date of the final system plan. the office shall. if necessary. revise and republish the standards so that they contain regulations requiring the collection and publication by the corporation or other railroads providing interim service of information sufficient to permit an accurate determination of the revenues. costs. and operations of lightdensity rail lines as operating and ecoic units. and" see. 6. section 206 of the regional rall reorganization act of 1973 (45 u.s.c. 716) is amended by adding at the end thereof the following new paragraph:
. when congress returns from its august recess. it is going to face many hard decisions.  the least of these will be whether we want a revitalized rail system serving the theast and whether we are willing to pay the price for such a system. i am convinced that this country can do without railroads. what would our country be like if there were trains. if link of rails tied community to community. shipper to manufacturer. seller to purchaser. could we or should we sacrifice energyefficient railroads for trucks when we face and will face for years fuel shortages. i think . can we tolerate an action that would produce a decline in gross national product of $60 to $70 billion. it is unthinkable. but that would be the estimated result of a penncentral shutdown alone. are things really that serious. they are. the penncentral handles more than 20 percent of all freight cars loaded in the united states and interchanges approximately 1.5 million cars with railroads outside of the region. thus. if the eastern rail markets were cut off from the western and southern carriers. the ecoic effects would be devastating because a large portion of the solvent railroads revenues are derived from carloads originating with the bankrupt carriers in the theast. the problem is countrywide. the theast just happened to reach the crisis point first. since the passage of the regional rail reorganization act in 1974. the financial plight of the railroads in the region has deteriorated at an alarming pace. in the first quarter of 1975. the penn central. which owns approximately 80 percent of the lines in this area. posted operating losses of $128 million. compared to $68 million last year. during the same period the seven bankrupt carriers in the region lost $155 million. compared to $82 million the year before. the bankrupt railroads are losing approximately $1.5 million per daya rtaggering sum when one considers that these carriers have been relieved of the obligation to pay most fixed charges and taxes. the projections for the rest of this year are equally glum. for example. penn central reported an operating loss of $56.1 million for the month of aprila deficit almost three times larger than the $19.3 million loss reported for the same month last year. the first national city bank of new yorka major creditor of the penn central and thus by means an uninterested observer of these eventspredicts that combined operational losses for all of the bankupt lines in 1975 will exceed $440 million. citibank predicts that these operational losses will produce a total cash deficit for the bankrupts of $186 million by december 31. 1975. the carriers themselves have reported to the bankruptcy courts that they will experience a cash shortfall of $197 million by march of the financial deterioration of these railroads has been accompanied by an accelerating deterioration of the physical plant. the number of miles of line subject to "slow orders." which are directives of the federal railway administration to proceed at minimum speed because of unsafe track conditions. has increased from 2.876 miles in 1971 to 8.972 miles in march of 1974. similarly. the number of freight train derailments has more than doubled from 2.200 per year in 1972 to 5.100 in 1974. i have come to the conclusion that the only way the theast rail system can hope to cease perpetual dependence on the federal treasury is through a comprehensive. sustained program of rehabilitation. the program will  be cheap. both the u.s. railway association and the rail services planning office estimate that adequate rehabilitation will require $2 to $3 billion over a 10 year period in addition to the $1 billion already provided in the regional rail act. in my judgment. the federal government must supply these funds. private equity capital has  been raised by the eastern railroads. and the railroad industry as a whole. in many years. and with good reason. since 1960. the railroad industry has earned only a 2 to 3 percent return on net investment. private capital can be attracted in that environment and. given the deepening depression in the industry. may never be. where are we going to get the $2 to $3 billion required for rehabilitation in the theast. and where the tens of billions. just over the horizon. that will be required for adequate rail service nationwide. obviously there is place but the federal government. for the government to subsidize rail service involves departure in policy. federal subsidization of other than rail modes of transportation is long established. appendix h of the associations preliminary system plan for the theast railroads contains an excellent discussion of this matter. it shows that in 1972. railroads received less than 1 percent of federal subsidy expenditures for rightsofway. equipment. and operations. this is a startling fact considering that the railroads account for 39 percent of all intercity freightton miles. it is essential that congress reexamine federal subsidization policies towards all modes of transportation to place railroads on an equal footing with other forms of transportation in attracting private capital. it must be recognized that profitability is  the prime consideration and pursuit of that goal is pursuit of a willofthewisp. realistically. the prime purpose of the regional rail act is to assure the continuation and improvement of rail service. yet the railroads continue to urge reduction of rail service. in particular the abandonment of "branch lines". as a way to improve the profit picture. it makes sense to suggest that bankrupt lines can be made profitable by cutting back on services any more than you can keep slicing away a salami and still have a whole salami when you finish. in fact. what is a branch line to some is a main line to others. indeed it often is the ecoic lifeline of the communities and the businesses and industries it serves. the banner of branch line abandonment has. unfortunately in my view. been picked up by usra. in the preliminary system plan. the association recommended excluding 6.200 miles. or approximately 30 percent of the existing bankrupt lines. from the conrail system. stating that branch lines are a "significant" part of the financial problem of the bankrupts. usra went out on a very shaky limb to reach this conclusion. for the fact is that reliable data on the costs and revenues of operating branch lines do  exist. and i am concerned that at this stage we simply do  have reliable data on which to base permanent decisions for the continuation of vital rail service. in the state of new jersey. there was hardly a line recommended for exclusion by usra whose data was  significantly challenged by the local users of the service. as startling as it may seem. it is becoming increasingly clear that the bankrupt railroads simply do  keep accurate information on the costs and revenues of their branch line operations. the planning process has uncovered a genuine deficiency in railroad accounting procedures which deprives us of the information we need to make the national decisions. an analysis of the available facts indicates that the elimination of these lines would have little impact if any on the profitability of conrailthe new organization responsible for operating the reorganized system. usra had originally estimated that the operating losses for these branch lines were $38 million in 1973. but recalculations by the rail services planning office show the losses were probably only in the order of $17 million. since the operating losses for the bankrupt railroads in that year were $221 million. branch lines apparently are  the major drag on railroad finances. in the absence of complete and accurate information and because curtailment of service will eventually. in my view. defeat the object of the rail reorganization act. i have recently introduced a bill amending the regional rail reorganization act to provide for a 2year. 100percent federal subsidy of all branch lines  included in the conrail system while the rail services planning office conducts a study to determine the actual costs. revenues. and the importance to communities of branch line services. congress will then have the opportunity to reevaluate these valuable national assets on the basis of full and complete evidence. i sincerely hope that congress will pass this legislation so that debate can be focused on the real need of the bankrupt railroadsthe provision of adequate federal financing. how to invest this money will require us to consider a broad range of possibilities. the various options which have been suggested so far range from outright nationalization of the entire system to outright federal grants. in my view. it would be premature to favor any of these options until all of them have been fully and fairly presented to congress with a frank discussion of the pros and cons of each alternative. whatever choice congress makes. i believe strongly that it must provide a longterm program for the successful financing and operation of the theast rail system. hing less will do. interim or yeartoyear financing of the conrail system may be pennywise. but it would certainly be pound foolish. until we devise such a solution. there will be a continuing drain on the federal treasury that may precipiate a hasty nationalization of the entire theast system. i do  mean to imply that we should necessarily reject some form of nationalization as a concept. indeed. several bills already before congress call for such an approach. the "confac" ideagovernment ownership of rightsofwaywhich was briefly described in the preliminary system plan. has received a great deal of attention and must be fully reviewed. however. if we are to embrace some form of nationalization as the proper approach. let us do so rationally and intelligently. and  as a hurried response to a crisis situation precipitated by our own delay. the u.s. railway association will present its recommended solutions in a socalled "final system plan" to congress july 26. to be acceptable. i suggest that the final plan must contain a detailed: explanation of the full rehabilitation requirements of the conrail system and a. complete discussion of the various financing and operational alternatives for implementing a rehabilitation program. specifically. the pros and cons of confac and the rspo and shapp trust fund approaches should be discussed in detail. the plan should also contain a profitability analysis of yards. terminals. mainlines. and intermodal facilities so that we may determine which parts of the bankrupt system are most in need of rehabilitation or elimination. most importantly. congress must receive a full and intelligent analysis of alt issues in the final plan. we need comprehensiveness and candor to assist our deliberations. if the association presenta us with a full. complete and honest appraisal of the problems plaguing the. theast rail system. then the burden is clearly ours to devise an appropriate. solution. if it does . we should waste time in sending it back to the association with instructions to complete the job.
. i am sure we will all agree that in this chamber. republicans and democrats alike. we are first of all americans. and we can agree on one other point. that small business in this country. retailers. small manufacturers. and others similarly situated. are the vertebrae of this country.  only ecoically but socially. we can also agree that big business is entitled to just treatment equally with small business and that there should be unfairness to either. i would like to add also at the outset that i believe we should pass a bill curing the doubt left by the supreme court on the deliveredprice question. and that i would  oppose the conference report on the compromise made on this question. but i feel that i must vote to recommit this conference report. for this reason: i think it is fatally defective and runs exactly counter to what the house wanted in this section 3 with respect to meeting price competition. that means the meeting of competition as between any small retailer and any chain store or any small manufacturer and any big manufacturer. even if freight is absorbed. we are  in this section dealing with freight absorption as that is covered by section 2 of the bill. let me tell you why on section 3 this is  a compromise. there is man in the house i respect and have a greater affection for than the gentleman from new jersey . i agree with him on the law. but i disagree with him very strongly on the policy. this is  a compromise. it is a capitulation to those who want to see this particular standard of meeting price competition established by the robinsonpatman act much weakened. we are saying here that what we will prevent will be competition that creates mooly. that means that we are removing from the inhibition of the law any competition with any individual. even though the competition unreasonably restrains trade or willand i use the language that has been contended forwill substantially lessen competition. there is compromise in that. all we are doing is sweeping aside what was done by the robinsonpatman act and going back to the original sherman antitrust law. the conferees did  compromise in respect to section 3 on unreasonable restraint of trade. and they did  compromise on "will substantially lessen competition"-they capitulated.
under the same circumstances. first. i should like to answer the question of the senator from tennessee. in my judgment. the word "may" means that the department or agency concerned may either act by specific decision in each particular case. for each particular grant or program. or it may make a regulation or rule. which would then be applied by the subordinates in the agency according to law. that is the. only discretionary authority which is granted. in my judgment. addressing myself to the point that the senator from th carolina makes that this provision represents a vague standard. if it is a vague standard. the senator from th carolina should be delighted. because the courts would strike it down. if we were to enac. a bill with a vague standard. it would be unconstitutional. i do  believe it is a vague standard. i am prepared to support it on the basis of the many cases which define what discrimination means. in terms of applying the same state of circumstances to a man of one color as to a man of aher. "discrimination" is  a word confined to civil rights legislation. it occurs in antitrust legislation. the robinsonpatman act mentions "discrimination." it has been defined by the courts time and time again in dealing with that act. it does  seek to define discrimination. it does give some particularization. but it also uses the word "discrimination." so also do the interstate commerce act. 49 u.s.c. 316(d). and the federal aviation act. 49 u.s.c. 1314(b). it seems to me that there is a standard here. a standard which has been many times construed by the courts. it seems to me that if the senator is correct. and there is standard. he ought to be greatly pleased. because we would be enacting a statute which would  stand up for 5 minutes. the courts would throw it out. if there is a standard. the courts will sustain it. if there is standard. they will declare it unconstitutional.
. i send to the desk a bill to create a new yorkconnecticut rail authority to deal with the critical problem of continued commuter services on the bankrupt new york. new haven & hartford railroad. i ask unanimous consent that the bill may be referred to the committee on commerce. i wish to state for the record that my office has checked with the staffs of the committee on commerce and the committee on the judiciary. i understand that such referral is acceptable to those committees. so that all hearings on the new haven situation may occur in one committee. if the chairmen of either of the committees have any question about the request. i shall move to set aside the unanimousconsent agreement.
 the authority to require the same kind of reports. so that there may be followups on how the exemption from the antitrust law is being used. i am concerned that if we fail to do that. we will  have a followup and the program could get away from us. it seems to me that that should satisfy what i consider to be the legitimate field of the senator from th carolina. without at the same time leaving us vulnerable to the charge that we have launched an express vehicle without any opportunity of surveillance as to how it is working.
. i most respectfully differ with the distinguished senator from arkansas. and state that i reject that idea. the fact that a particular enterprise may induce american business to go into areas and participate in multilateral ventures and with local individuals or business firms. is the thing we want to encourage in the american ecoic position. big business is  going into developed countries because underdeveloped countries are  attractive. with the corporate set up there would be the ability to attract small businesses into a field in which they are   engaged. the total export in overseas investment business of the united states is  in the hands of only 5 percent of american business concerns. the other 95 percent are  interested or have  found the vehicle for the purpose. the effort here is to establish such a vehicle as we did with the exportimport bank. which was financed as we propose to finance the opic. its basic capital was first put up by the united states. that is the only way it was able to get off the ground. i share the senators hopeit has always been my dreamthat a great aid corporation would be established in this nation owned by investors. i think that was the dream of the father of the senator from massachusetts . that that would be the ideal way in which the heart. brains. and skill of america could contribute to developing the world.
. the initiator of this idea feels that if i offered an amendment to this effect it would be an unfriendly gesture. so. i will  do it. however. i express my honest opinion to him and compliment him on his fine initiative in which he was joined by the senator from oregon . i would hope. however. that these comments would be a prelude to an acceptance of an enlarged proposal. i have been working on a generic bill with regard to employee stock ownership. and based on my experience in regard to this matter. i think it unwise to lock the rail corporation into one option. for example. we can take the sears. roebuck profitsharing plan where the employees have benefited emonsly from the fund and have acquired control of the company. it is  a kelsotype of plan. it is a contributiontype plan in which the employers stock is acquired by the trust. there are other fine plans as well of the contribution type. the sun oil co. employee stock plan is a wellkn example as is the westinghouse employee stock purchase plan. i wish the record to show that i hope very much that when this legislation finally emerges. it will show the benefit of all the thinking on this subject and that the statute will give the rail corporation a number of options rather than confine them to one idea.
