. the thwest ruralite is published in my state of oregon principally for matters of interest to rural electric coops and users of public power in the thwest. its editor is hank alderman. in a recent issue. the editorial column was devoted to a commencement address given a year ago to a graduating high school class in mitchell. oreg. mr. alderman believed that that commencement address. delivered by roy nishi. was so appropriate for the fourth of july that he saved it for reprinting this year in the ruralite. i ask unanimous consent that mr. nishis remarks and with the introduction to them by mr. alderman be printed in the record. to be followed by a letter from a man who heard the mitchell commencement ceremony. mr. ned ton. of mitchell.
. as the 103d congress commences. i believe that it is appropriate to recognize two groups of youths for rhode island who have distinguished themselves as leaders in their communities. these young people have demonstrated their leadership abilities through their achievements in the girl scouts and boy scouts. since the early nineteen hundreds. the girl scouts and boy scouts have given thousands of youths each year the opportunity to make friends. explore new skills. and develop a sense of leadership. patriotism. selfreliance. and teamwork. the silver award and the gold award are the highest awards that can be attained by junior and high school girl scouts. these awards are the culmination of hard work in which they master new skills. explore career opportunities. act as leaders and mentors to younger scouts. and perform a service project in their community. likewise. the eagle scout award is the highest rank that a boy scout can attain. eagle scout candidates must demonstrate leadership in the form of a service project which is helpful to their religious institution. school. or community. the service project allows the scout to prove himself as a leader by planning. organizing. arranging. and executing its completion. it gives me great satisfaction to k that these young men and women have stepped forward early in their lives to act as role models for their peers. it is also appropriate for us to ackledge the families. scout leaders. and scouting organizations that have given generously of their time and energy in support of scouting. it is with great pride that i submit a list of the youngsters who have earned these awards. the list follows:
. it is with great pleasure that i today pay tribute to the accomplishments of the girl scouts and boy scouts from rhode island. once again from these fine organizations emerges an admirable group of young women and men who have distinguished themselves as leaders in their respective communities. since the beginning of this century. the girlscouts and boy scouts have provided thousands of youngsters each year with the opportunity to make friends. explore new ideas. and develop leadership skills. along with a sense of determination. selfreliance. and teamwork. the silver and gold awards represent the highest awards attainable by junior and high school girl scouts. these awards are presented only to those who possess the qualities that make our nation great. namely. commitment to excellence. hard work. and genuine love for community service. similarly. the eagle scout award is an extraordinary award with which only the finest boy scouts are hoed. to earn the awardthe highest advancement rank in scoutinga boy scout must demonstrate proficiency in the rigorous areas of leadership service. and outdoor skills. i am hoed to ask my colleagues to join me in congratulating the recipients of these awards. their activities are indeed worthy of praise. their leadership benefits our community greatly and serves as role models for their fellow peers. if this group is representative of our future governance there is doubt that our future will be in good hands. lastly. we must  forget the unsung heroes who continue to devote a large part of their lives to make all this possible. therefore. i salute the families. scout leaders. and scouting organizations that have given generously of their timd and energy in support of scouting. it is with great pride that i submit a list of the young women and men who have earned this award.
. i am pleased to recognize two outstanding groups of young leaders in the state of rhode island. these individuals of the girl scouts and boy scouts have exhibited grea% qualities such as leadership and hard work. since the beginning of the century. girl scouts and boy scouts have developed leadership skills in their members through determination. selfreliance. and teamwork. the silver and gold awards are the two highest hos that can be received by any girl scout. those who have received these awards have demonstrated excellence. hard work. and the desire to help in their community. likewise. the eagle scout is the highest award given to a boy scout. candidates must display leadership in outdoor skills and service projects helpful to their communities and religious and school institutions. i am proud to congratulate these re-. cipients of these distinguished awards. the young leaders pose as role models to their fellow peers. their skills learned through girl and boy scoutswill serve them well. i would also like to ackledge the recipients parents. their scout leaders. and scouting organizations. these selfless people have contributed their time and energy to the girl and boy scouts. therefore. with great ho i submit the list of young women and men who have earned these awards. the list follows: "
. there will be celebrations in czechoslovakia today. parades in the streets or fireworks in the sky. in the dark shadow of the soviet empire. the pebple continue to exist in subjugation. but as the world has learned and will learn again: with brutality comes resistance. with suffering comes aspiration and with ordeal comes strength. buried deep in the souls of czechoslovakians. the coal of freedom continues to burn. giving warmth to their hopes. here in the united states. all americans. czech. and of other descent. pause on this day to recognize those hopes and the force that keeps them alive. liberty can be shackled for-. ever. one day we shall celebrate the rebirth of a free czechoslovakian nation in a free europe in a free world.*
the second deals with vocational rehabilitation. and the third deals with lowincome energy assistance. it is my intention to discuss these amendments. spending only a few minutes on each. certainly anyone else desiring to speak can also do so. then i shall ask for the yeas and nays and when the yeas and nays occur that they occur back to back on these three amendments.
. i join my colleagues in wishing happy birthday to our miity leader. perhaps. bill. the happiest thing i can say about you on this occasion is that it is a surprise to learn that you are 50. your energy and your zest for life seem to make you perennially under 50. but. like all of us. you march on. we hope to even greater glory. although you have covered yourself with glory here. perhaps everyone. at a time like this. says what affects him most. i am most affected by our miity leaders sincerity. bill kland is one senator who believes in everything he does. if he does  believe something should be done. he does  do it. he is wrong sometimesat least some of us think sobut he is right most of the time. we always k bill kland speaks out of a deep conviction and a fundamental purpose in the role in which providence has placed him. good luck to you and your family. and we wish you all the good things in life. which you so well deserve.
. i wish to add to the statement of the senator from alabama . i. too. would want to be present at the subcommittee meeting and be sure my colleague from new hampshire is there. i hope that this enthusiasm and passion for the job will be translated into top performance. i think that this gentleman. when he hears or reads the proceedings of this aftern. will have learned something about what it takes to be the head of a corps and how intelligent one must be with respect to conduct becoming the head of a corps of this character. i find fault with my colleague. i hope we will temper our judgment with the fact that undoubtedly this is a man of deep commitment and let us at least say that we expect him to transmit that energy and devotion for the job and perhaps learn a good hard lesson from what the senator has said.
. in response to my request. new york state commissioner of education ewald b. nyquist has submitted to me a report on the impact of the fuel crisis on the states schools and new yorks effort in this crisis. commissioner nyquist points out that fuel conservation measures. necessitated by shortages. have resulted in reducing extracurricular and community activities in the schools. with respect to sharply rising fuel costs. the commissioner has observed mat even with fuel conservation measures resulting in 15- to 30percent savings in consumption. school districts are finding their fuel budgets completely inadequate to meet their needs. he concluded thatdeficit financing which must occur because of fuel oil increases as well as the cost increases in other commodities and services will be reflected in large tax rate increases for new school budgets this year. illustrative of these sharply increased fuel costs are the situations in new york city and buffalo. new york citys current years school budget figure for fuel oil is $9.5 million. due to price rises it is  estimated that the appropriation for 197475 will have to rise to almost twice that amount. $18 million. even in the face of cutbacks in consumption. in buffalo. where the weather is colder and the heating season longer. and thus the impact is greater. the price of  2 fuel oil has risen 70 percent from 18.7 to 31.9 cents. the cost of  6 fuel oil has risen even more precipitously from 12.15 cents at the start of the school year to a current price of 30.8 cents. an increase of 148 percent to date. it is estimated. for example. that the current years budget figure of $224.000 for just this grade of fuel oil will rise to $776.000 in the coming year. an increase of more than a half million dollars that could well be spent for direct educational needs such as textbooks and the hiring of teachers. a survey of 25 typical school districts throughout all parts of new york state indicates an estimated 80.6percent rise in fuel oil budgets for the coming year and an increase of 54.2 percent in gasoline budgets. primarily used for schoolbuses. i ask unanimous consent that the report which i received from commissioner nyquist be printed in the record as part of my remarks.
