. i rise today to intrbduce a bill to reauthorize funding for the john. h. chafee blackstone river valley national heritage .corridor. i am pleased to be joined by three of my colleagues. senators reed. kerry and kennedy. as original cosponsors of this legislation. representative patrick kennedy is joining this effort by introducing companion legislation in the house today. since the corridors inception on ember 10. 1986. the blackstone river valley has undergone a profound rebirth. the blackstone river. once polluted and neglected. has been transformed into an object- of tremendous community pride and national importance. historians recognize the valley of the blackstone river. gracefully winding through 24 communities in the states of massachusetts and rhode island. as the birthplace of the american industrial revolution. slater mill. founded by the textile maker samuel slater in the 1790s. was the first to adapt english machine techogy to cottonyard manufacturing powered by water wheels. the success of the slater mill heralded in americas first factorybased industry of mass production. with accompanying communities dedicated to the production of manufactured goods. gradually. this new "rhode island system of manufacturing" led to profound changes ecoically. socially and culturally across the new nation. this nationally significant story was all but forgotten when senator john h. chafee authored federal legislation to establish the blackstone river valley national heritage corridor with the purpose of preserving and interpreting for present and future generations the uniqueness and significant historical value of the blackstone valley. a corridor commission. consisting of federallyappointed local and state representatives from massachusetts and rhode island. was established to work in partnership with the national park service to carry out the mission of the blackstone corridor. for over 15 years. the corridor commission and its heritage partners have worked to instill a vision of community revitalization. historic preservation. and environmental protection in the blackstone corridor. the corridor is a truly unique national park area. for the federal government does  own or manage any of the land or resources within the system. yet. the blackstone corridor includes cities. towns. villages and almost 1 million people. and has become a model for other heritage corridors across the country. working in partnership with two state governments. dozens of local municipalities. businesses. profit historical and environmental organizations. educational institutions. and many private citizens. the corridor commission has instilled a sense of community and identity to the residents of the blackstone corridor. these partnerships have resulted in the reversal of a longstanding lack of investment in the valleys historic. cultural and natural resources. a valleywide identity program has placed over 200 educational signs across the corridor to guide visitors into the blackstone and its heritage sites. key historic districts and sites have been preserved through the assistance of the commission and its partners working to identify critical historic preservation funding and assistance. the water quality of the blackstone river has seen dramatic improvements through cooperative. communitydriven projects that have worked to ensure more consistent water flows. the protection of open space along the valley. the initiation of local river cleanups. and the remediation of toxic sites along the rivers banks. since 1986. congress has established three accounts for the management of the corridor: the operation account providing funding for national park service staff support. the technical assistance account to provide assistance to communities and corridor partners. and the development fund to provide construction funding for the implementation of interpretive programming. river restoration. historic preservation. tourism and ecoic development and educational activities within the corridor. a 10year plan. completed by the commission in 1998. outlines a strategy for the implementation of development funds by focusing on the "resource protection needs and projects critical to maintaining or interpreting the distinctive nature of the corridor." the legislation i am introducing today. along with senators reed. kerry. and kennedy. will reauthorize the development fund account to provide .$10 million in federal funding from fiscal years 2003 through 2006. this authorization is consistent with the blackstone corridors 10year plan guiding the corridors future development needs. development funding will be used to move forward with projects that include a bistate 45 mile long blackstone bikeway. construction of river access points for recreational and tourism opportunities. reation and reuse of historic structures and surrounding landscapes. and educational programs to raise the awareness of the corridors significance in the region. with over 15 years of success and a number of challenges lying ahead. we urge congress continued support for the john h. chafee blackstone river valley national heritage corridor. the blackstone corridor tells the story of the beginnings of americas movement into the industrial era. we must allow the telling of this story to continue. i ask by unanimous consent that the text of this bill be printed in the record.
. i rise today to intrbduce a bill to reauthorize funding for the john. h. chafee blackstone river valley national heritage .corridor. i am pleased to be joined by three of my colleagues. senators reed. kerry and kennedy. as original cosponsors of this legislation. representative patrick kennedy is joining this effort by introducing companion legislation in the house today. since the corridors inception on ember 10. 1986. the blackstone river valley has undergone a profound rebirth. the blackstone river. once polluted and neglected. has been transformed into an object- of tremendous community pride and national importance. historians recognize the valley of the blackstone river. gracefully winding through 24 communities in the states of massachusetts and rhode island. as the birthplace of the american industrial revolution. slater mill. founded by the textile maker samuel slater in the 1790s. was the first to adapt english machine techogy to cottonyard manufacturing powered by water wheels. the success of the slater mill heralded in americas first factorybased industry of mass production. with accompanying communities dedicated to the production of manufactured goods. gradually. this new "rhode island system of manufacturing" led to profound changes ecoically. socially and culturally across the new nation. this nationally significant story was all but forgotten when senator john h. chafee authored federal legislation to establish the blackstone river valley national heritage corridor with the purpose of preserving and interpreting for present and future generations the uniqueness and significant historical value of the blackstone valley. a corridor commission. consisting of federallyappointed local and state representatives from massachusetts and rhode island. was established to work in partnership with the national park service to carry out the mission of the blackstone corridor. for over 15 years. the corridor commission and its heritage partners have worked to instill a vision of community revitalization. historic preservation. and environmental protection in the blackstone corridor. the corridor is a truly unique national park area. for the federal government does  own or manage any of the land or resources within the system. yet. the blackstone corridor includes cities. towns. villages and almost 1 million people. and has become a model for other heritage corridors across the country. working in partnership with two state governments. dozens of local municipalities. businesses. profit historical and environmental organizations. educational institutions. and many private citizens. the corridor commission has instilled a sense of community and identity to the residents of the blackstone corridor. these partnerships have resulted in the reversal of a longstanding lack of investment in the valleys historic. cultural and natural resources. a valleywide identity program has placed over 200 educational signs across the corridor to guide visitors into the blackstone and its heritage sites. key historic districts and sites have been preserved through the assistance of the commission and its partners working to identify critical historic preservation funding and assistance. the water quality of the blackstone river has seen dramatic improvements through cooperative. communitydriven projects that have worked to ensure more consistent water flows. the protection of open space along the valley. the initiation of local river cleanups. and the remediation of toxic sites along the rivers banks. since 1986. congress has established three accounts for the management of the corridor: the operation account providing funding for national park service staff support. the technical assistance account to provide assistance to communities and corridor partners. and the development fund to provide construction funding for the implementation of interpretive programming. river restoration. historic preservation. tourism and ecoic development and educational activities within the corridor. a 10year plan. completed by the commission in 1998. outlines a strategy for the implementation of development funds by focusing on the "resource protection needs and projects critical to maintaining or interpreting the distinctive nature of the corridor." the legislation i am introducing today. along with senators reed. kerry. and kennedy. will reauthorize the development fund account to provide .$10 million in federal funding from fiscal years 2003 through 2006. this authorization is consistent with the blackstone corridors 10year plan guiding the corridors future development needs. development funding will be used to move forward with projects that include a bistate 45 mile long blackstone bikeway. construction of river access points for recreational and tourism opportunities. reation and reuse of historic structures and surrounding landscapes. and educational programs to raise the awareness of the corridors significance in the region. with over 15 years of success and a number of challenges lying ahead. we urge congress continued support for the john h. chafee blackstone river valley national heritage corridor. the blackstone corridor tells the story of the beginnings of americas movement into the industrial era. we must allow the telling of this story to continue. i ask by unanimous consent that the text of this bill be printed in the record.
. today marks the 40th anniversary of the declaration of the independence of the ukraine. and i wish to join my distinguished colleagues in the house in saluting these gallant people. on january 22. 1918. the government of ukraine issued a proclamation of independence. shortly thereafter. ukraine was invaded by the bolsheviks. and was incorporated into the communist union of soviet socialist republics. the iron curtain is drawn across the afflicted ukrainian nation. ukraine is a nation of 40 million. the largest russian nation behind the european iron curtainukraine stands as one of our most important and natural allies in the eventual defeat of soviet imperialism. for 37 years its people have been enslaved under the iron yoke of communism. they have endured mass murder. wholesale deportations. brutal torture in slave labor camps. the destruction of their churches. yet they have never abandoned hope of eventual liberation and the reestablishment of their land as a free. sovereign. and independent republic. ukrainian patriots have engaged in continuous and valiant underground resistance. the fight goes on today to regain their independence and free way of life. the lamp of freedom still burns in the hearts of its people. it will  be extinguished and will blaze again. proudly and fiercely when liberation has been won. this anniversary is an appropriate occasion to make kn to the courageous people of ukraine that we americans are wholeheartedly dedicated to the cause of human freedom. and once again express our determination never to rest until freedom is restored to people  living in communist captivity.
. 40 years ago the people of lithuania declared their independence. for the next 22 years. the young republic surged with joyous effort. and the liberated people accomplished more during that time than at any other generation in their histery. then the darkness came. first from one side and then from the other. until lithuania was forcibly taken over by the soviet union. . since then. more than 50 percent of the catholic clergy has been annihilated by the ruthless conquerors. there are holes in the iron curtaintiny though they may be. even though russia has launched a satellite. it can stifle the religious zeal and sturdy independence of the lithuanian people. they have outlived other tyrannies and their spirit will finally prevail over those who  oppress them. the news that leaks through to us tells us of brave resistance. the one thing that the communists fear above all else is the truth. they realize that if people get to k each other as fellow human beings. the fabric of lies upon which communism is built will topple like a house built on sand. the intercontinental ballistic missile. carrying a hydrogen bomb. could kill millions of people. but it is the truth that will finally win. and the truth put to work  could immobilize this hideous weapon of destruction and all others like it. eventually. the free peoples of the world will get their message through the iron curtain. even to the people of russia. and then they too will rise up against those who keep them in bondage. the light is dim in lithuaniabut it is still glowing. it glows in every lithuanian heart where the communists can reach it. it glows in their resistance. it glows as they think of the day when freedom will again be theirs. i extend congratulations to the lithuanian people on this anniversary of their independence day. let us also join them in more than words in their efforts to unloose the shackles of tyrants and reestablish their independence.
. in commemorating the 40th anniversary of the proclamation of independence of the byelorussian democratic republic. i bow my head in mixed sadness and shame. deep sympathy for those who have resisted and have died in a seemingly hopeless fight. but gave their all in a superhuman struggle to keep the fluttering spark of freedom glowing. even if dimly. behind the iron curtain. sadness and a feeling of guilt and shame as i join with many fellow americans. living in complete freedom and during a period of ample prosperity. trying to sound sincere in hoing the byelorussians and their counterparts behind the iron curtain. who live in subjugation bordering on modern slavery. as each year passes the suffering of freedom loving people under the kremlin heel goes on while some who mouth apparent sympathy and understanding. also speak of peaceful coexistence with the kremlin. in order to relieve world tension. they ask that we should give thought to dealing on a common level with belief in god. merged with atheism. that 48 states and its territories exemplifying the greatest freedoms of this world be represented in conferences with soviet puppets who have joined hands with the bloodyhanded masters in the kremlin. it was a great american who stated. "give me liberty or give me death." aher-"i regret that i have but one life to give for my country." as time passes such thoughts seem more expressive to the sacrifices made abroad in other lands rather than our own homeland. whose early history holds far more in common with our heroic and courageous freedom loving friends. than the craven phrases of "peaceful coexistence." that is becoming the chant that is music to the soviet puppets for whom we will forsake those whom we would say we are hoing today. i will try to lift my head by stating that maximum ecoic sanctions against soviet russia. red china and all puppet satellite governments be imposed. let us join in positive action rather than annual public utterances of sympathy and inaction. let those nations who call for sacrifices on the part of other less fortunate countries stand with us. let us  hold up our heads just long egh to be heard for a brief moment. let us hold it up in pride and keep it up with continued courage in action.
. it is with deep sincerity and full feeling of giving encouragement to the polish people that i join my distinguished colleagues in saluting those who must live for the present under an imposed communistic government though as a people their very existence is a repudiation of communistic ideology and their feelings toward communism can be best described by saying that they are suffering in the same fashion as we americans would if in their place. poland today may be a captive nation and an unwilling victim of ruthless communistic subjugation but there has never been any system devised by mankind that can reach beyond the physical being and hold in subjugation the spirit of his mortal body or that of his soul. while we may hesitate at the violent action necessary to tear down the iron curtain at present there should be reluctance to help in any other fashion that can be devised without aiding and abetting the communistic rulers of poland. outside the iron curtain we must oppose and prevent any moscowsponsored communistic domination of presently free and sovereign countries. we must in addition be unrelenting in our fight to release from communistic domination those nations that formerly enjoyed freedom and sovereignty. yes. let us bring cheer and continued hope to the polish people by words of encouragement but let us make them have real meaning by supporting them with deeds.
. i present and ask to have printed in the record. and appropriately referred. a certified copy of a resolution adopted in town meeting by the citizens of rochester. vt.. on march 2. 1937. relating to the proposed construction by the federal government of a floodcontrol dam at gaysville.
. the legislation we are considering is a further and most essential step in a longterm effort to promote the beneficial use of water and related land resources of the new england states. e of us who lived in new england in the middle 1930s will ever forget the horrorthe devastation of property and loss of lifeof the severe floods which ravaged our densely populated area. these calamities aroused the government to the need to control surface waters in the interest of the public welfare. consequently. congress. in 1936. authorized the corps of engineers to make intensive studies of flood control needs in the major river basins of the new england areaincluding the merrimack. which cuts through my fifth district of massachusetts. the connecticut. and the thames rivers. subsequently. comprehensive plans were developed for these major basins for flood control and related purposes. these plans are gradually being carried out by the construction of key reservoirs. levees. and channels. however. both federal and state agencies have long realized that the federal flood control program is only one aspect of the overall land and water problem facing the new england states. as a result. in 1950. the first interagency studies were authorized by congress for new england. the new englandnew york interagency committee is composed of the six new england states and new york. plus the departments of interior. commerce. labor. army. health. education. and welfare. and the federal power commission. the efforts of this committee culminated in a monumental 46volume report which took more than 4 years to develop. the report is an inventory of all pertinent water and land resources. identified problems and obstacles. and plans and programs for achieving full development of projects necessary for ecoic growth. we are  confronted with the problem of how to most effectively translate this great mass of data and plans into coordinated. positive accomplishments. with the exception of maine. the states concerned are relatively small in area and all of the major streams are interstate. consequently. it is important that the total federal. state. and community efforts be wisely integrated to achieve the best use and conservation of the water and land involved. it is apparent that there is a need for a formally established agency to supplant the existing loose committee system. in recognition of this need. the new england govers 2 years ago agreed unanimously to introduce enabling legislation to enter into an interstate compact creating a commission to carry on more effectively the work of federalstate coordination. it is this compactalready adopted by the states of new hampshire. connecticut. rhode island. and massachusettswhich  is presented. in h.r. 30. for our approval. article x of the compact provides that it shall become effective when enacted into law by any three of the concerned states and the federal government. thus. enactment of h.r. 30 by the congress will put the compact into effect. i am convinced that the commission will prove of substantial assistance in the intensive development and use of resources which will benefit  only our new england area. but the entire nation. and i ask your support of this enabling legislation.
. the commonwealth of massachusetts is proud of the part it played in the struggle of our nation for independence. many of the communities that are a part of what is  the fifth congressional district. which i have the ho to represent. witnessed the first revolutionary battles. in order that the battle sites might be preserved. the minuteman national historical park has been established in concord. lexington. and lincoln. mass.. the national park service has recommended an appropriation of $500.000 for fiscal year 1964 for land acquisition within the park and i am pleased to e that my colleagues on the house appropriations committee recognize the historical significance of the area and have approved the appropriation request for the bill which is before us today. i sincerely hope that my colleagues will support this program. approval of the appropriation request will allow the service to preserve the proper facilities for the visiting public in accord with mission 66 launched in 1956. as you k. this is the services longrange comprehensive national park protection and use program scheduled for completion in 1966. the golden anniversary of the establishment of the national park service. the service. with the help of congress. will be allowed to continue to make headway in preserving our nations great past.
 to proclaim the third week of each july captive nations week. why did congress take this action. does it  seem quixotic to talk of freedom for people imprisoned behind the iron curtain who live always under the gun of soviet military power. the answer lies in the nature of freedom itself. an elusive. demanding but. rarely abandoned goal. the spirit of freedom can and must be kept alive and rished. even and especially under severe duress. the nations  captive have kn freedom. they have strong historic and cultural ties to the west. captive nations week serves to remind the people of eastern europe that the west. and particularly this country. has  forgotten them  their desire to be free. its observance helps to keep alive the flame. of hope which may one day flare into a new blaze of freedom.
. that was the scene of many of the most momentous events in the early history of our country. we have commemorated many of those events by simple markers and memorials that serve as an inspiration to all who visit us. finally. it should be ed that the philippine government has already begun to make this an attractive historic site. certainly we would be remiss if we failed to contribute our share in peace for the commemoration of our part in the war. i commend the outstanding work of the gentleman from alabama [mr. seldeni and the gentleman from california in finding an appropriate solution to a problem that has faced us for some years and urge the adoption of this bill.
i wish to say once more to secretary udall and to mr. charles luce. the bonneville administrator. whose representations in this matter in the early part of the controversy were anything but in the public interest. that if they try it again in regard to any other matter involving the natural resources of the west. they will get the same opposition from the senior senator from oregon.
. tunisia celebrated on june 1. the 10th anniversary of her independence. this is indeed a happy and memorable occasion for the people of tunisia and for their distinguished and courageous leader. habib bourguiba. who led the struggle for independence. this small country in thern africa has extended an influence of moderation and stability beyond her borders far beyond that which would have been expected from a land possessing so few natural resources and a relatively small but energetic population. tunisia has made commendable progress during the past 10 years in her ecoic development. thanks to the foresight of her leaders she has eschewed the burdens of a military buildup and. instead. has concentrated on ecoic development within her own borders and cooperation with her neighbors of th africa. we are hopeful that other developing countries will emulate the outstanding example of tunisia which has ably demonstrated what can be accomplished in newly independent countries in collaboration with assistance from the west. conditions were imposed or strings attached to our assistance to tunisia. we would like to salute the decade of progress tunisia has just achieved. and also the decade of promise ahead. and to offer sincere best wishes and hearty congratulations on her independence day.
i would disagree with the gentleman in this respect. he said "every possible way." i do  believe that is accurate. i certainly do credit the president with the most conscientious efforts to achieve negotiations with th vietnam. but there is one way that has  been tried and that is the way we advocate. i believe it deserves the study of the administration and the* congress as an avenue which we hope will lead to an hoable conclusion. to an hoable peace.
 of the united states said: i am prepared to order a cessation of bombing against your country and stop further augmentation of the united states forces in south viet nam as soon as i am assured that infiltration into south viet nam by land or by sea has stopped. . in my view and in our view. the united states by this proposal offers too much and asks too much. it seems to me if we can do it step by step as we here propose. we are adopting a new approach which hopefully will lead to negotiations that we all hope and trust will lead to an hoable conclusion of hostilities.
i thank the distinguished gentleman from new york for his work in this regard. and i commend him for his significant contribution. . we are going to continue our efforts to sound the trumpets. to stimulate debate. to inspire discussion. because we think that the american people want and indeed deserve the debate that has been so long denied. we are going to continue our efforts to find an approachhopefully a new and imaginative approachwhich. perhaps. will lead us one step closer to the peace which every man of good will. matter what his nationality. searches for. we hope that our colleagues on both sides of the aisle will recognize the large task that we have laid out for ourselves. we hope they will recognize our humility in approaching such a massive undertaking and we hope that they will give to us and give to the nation their most conscientious. their most careful. their most honest judgment as to the course of action which our nation should follow.
 of the united states has undertaken to do this. and i was especially gratified with his anncement of the special mission which gover rockefeller will embark upon in the weeks ahead. i am convinced. . that by changing our approach to latin american affairs of years pastby listening rather than lecturingwe have a chance cxv560--part 7 to find the developmental mystique which has alluded the alliance for progress. as we are learning from our domestic experience. pride. confidence and selfreliance have more to do with development than the nature or even the quantum of external ecoic assistance. as we celebrate this pan american day. let us pledge ourselves to a new policy. the most positive policy. with the greatest significance for longterm development in latin americathat is. encouraging the latins themselves to take the lead in setting the tone for the next decade.
. due to a longstanding engagement away from the capitol. i was unable to be on the floor to vote in favor of the peace corps act. h.r. 11039. the peace corps is a vital part of our efforts and the goals of our foreign policy: a better and mutual understanding between the united states and the developing countries. a closer communication and basic rapport between peoples that can lead to greater cooperation. the support and participation of the american people in meeting the urgent and basic human problems which challenge the future of civilization. as a relatively young program. it has faced vastly complex and varied situations. it has undertaken a course virtually uncharted in our experience as a nation. without the benefit of past efforts or tradition. its achievements have been significant. and its continued strength and success will be indicative of our commitment to the principles of human equality. dignity. and peace.
s emous capacity for creative leadership in foreign affairs. leadership designed to lead us to a generation of peace. in my view his newestinitiative. like his earlier ones. commands the respect and support of all americans.
in connection with the question raised regarding messina. it is my understanding that the messina aluminum plant is still in operation. and is in fact producing a great deal of aluminum from time to time. but is  able to produce anything like what would be possible if the power development were available. in that connection i shall have more to say on this subject tomorrow.
the senator from new york would point out that it would  be on the same basis. because there would be requirement for the locks. the same need for construction which the seaway entails. what would be required would be a dam and the docks. and the removal of the several communities in the vicinity. in order to permit the damming process. i did  say the "damned" process. i have reference to damming.
my answer is that to the best of my recollection the legislature of the state of new york in 1931 did  go on record in favor of any seaway. the senator ks. as well as i. the wording in memorials and resolutions adopted by some of the state legislatures. i do  k how that resolution read. unless he happens to have a copy of it there. i do  think there is any way of deciding that question definitely between us. it is very technical. but i am sure that the legislature did  favor any seaway.
. the senator from new york thanks the senator from massachusetts for his courtesy in allowing him to appear in the discussion. i point out that there is hing which the distinguished s2nator from wisconsin just stated which was at all at variance with my previous remarks. they were to the effect that in sense. by the power authority act of 1931. did the state of new york go on record as favoring the seaway. that is the position i have taken right straight through. the senator speaks about improving commerce and navigation. of course. those matters have to be considered in the passage of an act of the kind to which i have referred. which has to do particularly with the improvement and development of power resources on the river. as i indicated. the shipping which was already using the channels. and which would use it. totaling. i believe. 9.000.000 tons at the present time. would have to be taken care of. if a dam of the size of that contemplated were actually built. naturally improved commerce and navigation have to be included in the whole project as contemplated. but that. as the act itself indicated from its very title. was  the primary purpose of the act. if the distinguished senator from wisconsin had been where he could have heard the debates going on at the time the act was passed he would have ascertained that what i am saying is the actual fact. i thank the senator from massachusetts for allowing me to interrupt him a second time.
..this property involves seventyfour tenthousandths of 1 acre. i think every member of the senate will appreciate that seventyfour tenthousandths of 1 acre is just slightly under threefourths of 1 percent of 1 acre. this land is the site of a monument kn as the father millet cross national monument. which was established at fort niagara state park in new york state a number of years ago. the legislation is being offered at the request of the national park service. it seems that the federal government does  have the facilities to take care of property in the middle of the park. and this property. which is located in the middle of the park. is being neglected. the state of new york would like to obtain control of it so it can see that it is properly cared for. the director of state parks of the state of new york himself has requested that this authorizing legislation be enacted in order to permit the state of new york properly to act.
i thank the gentleman.  that hing will happen in the near east that will seriously disturb the peace and threaten israel or bring on hostilities that could lead to a very serious conflagration and to a major war. it is my belief that this resolution and the action of the congress can here today and in the days ahead make a significant contribution to the cause of peace.
. the week of july 14. 1963. marked the fifth annual observance of captive nations week. the purpose of this observance was to commemorate the aspirations of all people for human dignity. freedom. and independence. the plight of those behind the iron curtain should be our continuing concern and their right of selfdetermination a matter for our constant support. captive nations week sought to emphasize that albania. bulgaria. czechoslovakia. estonia. hungary. latvia. lithuania. poland. and rumania do  have these basic rights of representative government. the same can be said of th korea. th vietnam. tibet. and  cuba. in the light of recent discussions of a aggression pact. it is particularly important that we do . directly or indirectly. tacitly or explicitly. freeze the status quo of eastern europe. any recognition of the east german regime would be repugnant to the right of selfdetermination and to u.s. policy supporting the reunification of germany under free elections. it is perhaps useful to recall. in the light of the current negotiations in process between the west and moscow. these words of the late john foster dulles. then secretary of state. from "principles and policies in a changing world." dated ember 18. 1958: there are some who seem to feel that. because international communism is a powerful and stubborn force. we should give way before it. hing could be more dangerous than to operate on the theory that. if hostile and evil. forces do  readily change. it is always we who must change to accommodate them. communism is stubborn for the wrong. let us be steadfast for the right. a capacity to change is indispensable. equally indispensable is the capacity to hold fast that which is good. but let us make our opposition  just a barren negative but a positive alternative. despotisms. with their iron discipline. their materialistic productions. their hard and glittering exterior. always seem to have the ad.vantage over democracies. which advertise their differences to all the world and which often appear as about to fall apart. the fact is that the despotisms are always weaker than they appear and the free nations are usually stronger than they seem. international communism has many elements of strength in its moithic. despotic. disciplined system. but it also has important weaknesses and confronts many dilemmas. there is hing inevitable about communism except that it. too. is bound to change. and secretary dulles was to state in an address "freedom. the predominant force." on january 14. 1959a faith from which we can well take fresh inspiration: as we look ahead. we see freedom as a predominant force. shaping our 20thcentury world. as americans. we have faith that the aspiration. deep within the soul of man. to live freely and with dignity in a just and peaceful world is stronger than all the material forces which the communists invoke as the pledge and promise of their power.
. americans over 45 comprise some 27 percent of the unemployed. their talents and experience can be put to productive use in our communities. those willing to work should  be discouraged because of potential discrimination on account of their age. i am hopeful that legislation to bar such discrimination will be enacted this year on a federal level. to supplement and shore up the 20 state laws  banning discrimination because of age. but hampered because of lack of funds and staff. i am hopeful that these two somewhat different approaches to the same problem will lead to bipartisan discussion on a high level that will result in meaningful. significant legislation. february 15. -1967
. in the death of konrad adenauer. germany has lost a great leader and europe a statesman of vision. der alte believed very deeply in a germany dedicated to humanity and deeply steeped in democratic values. all that the nazis stood for was repugnant to dr. adenauer. and through every act as chancellor he gave earnest to this by leading germany back from disgrace into a new era. he made it possible to start an effort of conciliation and conscience with israel through a program of restitution and reparations that was important. more than this. chancellor adenauer cared particularly about the young men and women of germany. and his hope in particular. i believe. was that they would turn to europe and to the democratic ideals for which he believed and for which so many europeans have stood. dr. adenauer as chancellor. in my judgment. will rank with monnet. schuman and de gasperi as one of the architects of a europe that is emerging. a europe dedicated to personal freedom and unity in the interest of all mankind. i believe all of us in this house can extend our deepest respects and condolences to all the people of germany. and i believe that chancellor adenauers example of conviction of principles will lead to a new era for germany and a brighter day for all of europe. this mornings new york times carries a tribute to dr. adenauer as the lead editorial. under unanimous consent. i am inserting the editorial in the record: [from the new york times. apr. 20. 1967]
. the speaker of the house. the majority and miity leaders of both houses. four additional congressional members. and nine independent members broadly representative of private industry. the academic and scientific communities. and the field of public affairs. in my judgment. it is important that the congress authorize sufficient initial appropriations for the operation and maintenance of the center to insure that the center will be well insulated from the vagaries of the annual appropriation process. the bill would authorize $15 million for site acquisition. planning. and construction of a building and facilities to house the center and an annual fund of $2 to $3 million for the maintenance and operation of the center. including compensation for the centers scholars. from an initial endowment of $100 million. the annualized figure represents less than onetenth of what we annually authorize and appropriate for department of defense outside research alone. the need for action is critical and clear. as illustrative of the dearth of sophisticated research in areas of vital concern. i might only e that the department of statecharged with the formulation and effectuation of our nations foreign policyexpended in fiscal year 1967 only $125.000 in its office of external research. . the challenge of the 21st century will be a difficult one for us to meet. we must be fully prepared to face and answer the hard questions which lie ahead. how can education of quality at all levelsespecially in colleges and universitiesbe made more responsive and available both to the needs of the student and to the community and the society as a whole. how shall we conserve our natural resources at a time when air and water pollution is fast outrunning our corrective measures. how shall we resolve the implications of a new generation of abm and icbm systems and yet work effectively toward detente and disarmament under effective international control. how shall we revitalize our blighted cities and urban areas. wherein some 80 percent of our citizens will soon be living. how shall we keep policies. options and initiatives in foreign affairs ahead of potential crises and responsive to change. in my judgment. it is about time that the congress assured itself of independent. competent. and effective research and policy formulation. in the executive branch. independent thought may be a rare commoditywith predetermined policy sometimes stifling potential creativity. with insufficient dissemination at times of major policy differences. or indeed of facts. the implications of which could lead to quite different policies. or perhaps even different goals. we in congress can afford less than independence of thought to aid us in our deliberations.
s environmental quality council and that the council and the department could together launch a coordinated attack on environmental problems. too often. we assume that the problem of feeding an additional 70 million persons per year is the only problem we face as the worlds population increases. in fact. it has been predicted that the shortage of mineral resources will become serious sooner than the food shortage. as the population of the united states increases and the standard of living in this country rises. the demand on our natural resourcescoal. mineral ores. even watermay outgrow our supply. it is possible. through modern agricultural techniques. to increase the productivity of our farmlands. but  even modern science can make it possible to dig coal or mine iron ore where the supply has been exhausted. before the supply of certain metals is actually exhausted. we will be forced to use lower and lower quality ores. as the refining process becomes more complicated. we will undoubtedly place increasing demands on our supply of water and energy fuels in our effort to extract the metals we need and then dispose of the resulting pollutants. clearly. we must begin planning. and acting.  if we are to prevent the creation of a vast garbage dump in america and restore the environment of this nation to the high quality we once enjoyed. if we are to accomplish our goals. consideration of all the problems involvedpopulation. natural resources. control of pollutionmust be the responsibility of one agency. i support this legislation enthusiastically. and i would hope that the committee on government operations and the congress will give it early consideration.
. i rise in support of the amendment to strike funds for the sst and to deal specifically with one point which the gentleman from illis raised. namely. the pollution of the environment. this is  to say that my objection to the sst is based solely on environmental considerations. although they are of great. and perhaps primary. importance. i also oppose the sst on the grounds of misplaced priorities: specifically. that it would benefit only a -small portion of our population. those engaged in overseas luxury travel. while it would adversely affect millions living near airports. suffering already from excessive air se. specifically. regarding the environment. i would like to call to the attention of the members the evidence and. indeed. the wisdom of dr. vincent schaefer. the director of the atmospheric sciences research center at the state university of new york at albany. dr. schaefer is one of the very few cloud physicists in the united states and. so far as i k. he has done more research than anyone in the world on the question of microscopic particulate matter and the effect on the troposphere and the stratosphere of these particles. specifically he has made the point that one of the greatest dangers of the sst is the possibility that the effluent from the sst engines will produce an increasing concentration of microscopic particles in the upper atmosphere which could modify the weather pattern of the globe. this particulate matter ranging in size from 0.05 to 0.2 microns in diameter. move at random. unaffected by gravity. in other words. dr. schaefer says: the bombardment of gaseous molecules play nearly as great a role in their motion as the force of gravity. they therefore remain suspended in the stratosphere where the sst is scheduled to fly. for long periods of time. unfortunately. there are obvious cleansing mechanisms in the stratosphere. since only the area up to about 40.000 feet. the lowest part of the stratosphere. is affected by precipitation. further. since the ssts particulates have little mass. the residue may remain for years. dr. schaefer concludes that a high concentration of such particles could cause such a reduction in the incoming solar radiation as to have weather modification effects all over the globe and lead in time to a new ice age. i would like to repeat that last point and to quote very precisely from dr. schaefers research. he says: a high concentration of very small particles in the stratosphere might cause such a reduction in the incoming solar radiation as to begin to have weather modification effects on a global scale. if this were to happen. a very large capital investment could be completely wasted. since further insult to the environment from this source would be intolerable since it would lead toward a new ice age. i repeatit would lead toward a new ice age.
. for this reason. i urge my colleagues to support my bill h.r. 15840.  being introduced for the establishment of a national memorial park at plymouth bay. mass. although we k the deeds of the brave pilgrims who in 1620 landed at plymouth rock. we have  yet. after almost 350 years. included the site of their landing in the national park system. plymouth rock should be a national memorial. and i am pleased to join my colleague. senator edward m. kennedy. of massachusetts. in sponsoring the establishment of the plymouth rock national memorial. his bill s. 3477 and mine are the same. the bill follows: h.r. 15840 be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled. that. for the purpose of commemorating the landing of the pilgrims in the new world at plymouth bay. massachusetts. in 1620. the secretary of the interior may acquire by gift. purchase with donated or appropriated funds. exchange. or otherwise.  to exceed fifteen acres of land (together with any buildings or other improvements thereon). and interests in land at plymouth harbor in the town of plymouth. massachusetts. for the purpose of establishing thereon a national memorial: provided. that property owned by the commonwealth of massachusetts may be acquired only with the consent of the owner. sec. 2. the property acquired pursuant to the first section of this act shall be established as the plymouth rock national memorial. and shall be administered by the secretary of the interior subject to the provisions of the act entitled "an act to establish a national park service. and for other purposes." approved august 25. 1916 (39 stat. 535). as amended and supplemented. and the act entitled "an act to provide for the preservation of historic american sites. buildings. objects. and antiquities of national significance. and for other purposes." approved august 21. 1935 (49 stat. 666). sec. 3. there are hereby authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this act.
. march 10 marks the eighth anniversary of the revolt in 1959 of the captive people of tibet against their red chinese oppressors. and it is for this reason that this day has been selected as the focal point for a reminder of the plight of the people of tibet. under the guise of bringing tibet back to its "motherland" the chinese dispatched their socalled peoples liberation army to tibet on october 7. 1950. and within a fortnight had conquered the country. it goes without saying that china was never the "motherland" of the tibetans. my interest in tibet stems from the time that i distributed a motion picture produced by lowell thomas and lowell thomas. jr.. entitled "out of this world to forbidden tibet." in that motion picture. in magnificent color. was told the history of tibet. an independent nation. its religion. its dalai lama. its panchen lama. and its customs. the potala palace. a shrine. and the tomb of successive reincarnations of the dalai lama. so well shown in all its glory in the motion picture. has since been desecrated. when on march 10. 1959. captive tibetans rebelled against the red chinese agressors. thousands of tibetans were massacred or imprisoned. this rebellion culminated in his. holiness. the dalai lamas flight to india with over 80.000 other tibetan refugees. the people of tibet have been deprived of their right to selfdetermination. which they enjoyed prior to chinas invasion of tibet in 1950. when the history of imperialism is considered. this subjugation by the red chinese of the free. defenseless. religious. and warlike tibetan people will lead in the role of infamy. in my district. at 333 avenue of the americas. is located the friends of tibet society. its cochairman. cynthia huyler. is my constituent. they are participating in this commemoration. which will be lead on the morrow in new york city by phintso thonden. who is ambassador of the office of tibet in new york city. his holiness. the dalai lama. continues in exile. and has a bureau in new delhi. india. on october 26. 1965. in new delhi. the dalai lama stated:
. those who consider fort k a reservoir. and those who are concerned with our balanceofpayments problem will find enlightenment on the gold crisis in the very interesting talk given by c. austin barker. of the firm of hornblower & weekshemphill. es at the pacificthwest metals and minerals conference earlier this year. the commercial and financial chronicle printed it on june 8. and i appreciate the fact that my constituent. joseph a. gimma. brought it to my attention so that i in turn could present it to my colleagues. mr. barkers "golden" discussion follows:
. i believe that the consolidated approach we have taken in this bill will greatly improve these programs for the elderly and allow many more older americans to lead more dignified and independent lives.
. i am pleased to cosponsor this bill which would designate the frederick law olmsted house in brookline. mass.. a national historic site. frederick law olmsted was the most famous american landscape architect in the 19th century. each day. millions of americans from coast to coast experience and enjoy his work. as architect in chief of the winning proposal to design central park in new york city. olmsted began a busy and productive career. among his works are the emerald necklace in boston. prospect. morn.ingside. and riverside parks in new york city. fairmount park in philadelphia. and belle isle park in detroit. the capitol grounds. right outside this chamber. are also olmsteds creation. olmsted played one of the leading roles in bringing the rural beauty and color of open spaces to the heart of our urban centers. using native shrubs and flowers. olmsted insured that residents of countless cities would  have to travel long distances to enjoy the beauty and tranquillity of a park. he keenly recognized the need for city dwellers to have open space. for gray concrete and red brick to be punctuated with green grass and trees. olmsteds work was  confined to city parks. the landscaped portions of yosemite and yellowstone national parks. as well as niagara falls were designed by this man and his firm. olmsteds career touched many professions. as a journalist. he wrote the classic study of slavery and the plantation system entitled. "the cotton kingdom: a travelers observation of cotton and slavery in the american slave states." during the civil war. he lent his services as head of the sanitary commission and made other contributions to army medical administration and public health. clearly. olmsted was dedicated to the preservation of his fellow man as well as the natural environment. the frederick law olmsted house in brookline. mass.. served as olmsteds house and office from 1895 through 1903. when he died. while his professional and personal papers have been donated to the library of congress. his major drawings. photographs and work materials are stored in his brookline house. this collection includes 150.000 drawings. 63.000 prints and photographs dating back to 1860. this extraordinary assemblage is still used as a reference by states and municipalities that wish to rehabilitate their landscapes. in addition. olmsteds papers are an important source of information about the history of environmental design. at the present time. the olmsted house is designated a national historic landmark. while this designation recognizes olmsteds contribution to american history. it does  allow the national park service to take the steps necessary to preserve olmsteds papers and drawings. by designating this site a national historic site. the park service will acquire and maintain the land and buildings. the value of his work will be preserved through time and be readily available to scholars. planners. students. and the public. each one of us who has enjoyed strolling through the capitol grounds or taken a walk through a national or urban park owes a great deal to the vision and artistry of frederick law olmsted. by designating his home a national historic site we will  only be paying tribute to his life but also insuring that future generations may learn from his wisdom and insight.* by. mr. jackson (by request):
. the facts do  bear that out. the architect of the capitol testified in 1974 that the rayburn building cost $60 a square foot. this building will cost in the area of $180 a square foot. is the argument that costs have gone up three times since 1974. that argument does  hold water. the next item is: "the house cost of $20 million." well. where do they get those statistics. they got them from the worlds most inaccurate authors of statistics. the office of the architect of the capitol. he has  been right in the figures he has put out since 1972. yet we are relying on those statistics to tell us that the house action cost us $20 million. anyone can look out his window. i am in the dirksen building. i can see that construction going on. there are people all over that building. and this proposal is from that source of bad information. the architect of the captiols bad estimates. they have  been right in any estimate. yet there is where they get their statistics of $20 million. obviously. i think that is wrong. just by looking we can see it is wrong. and we ought  to pay any attention to it. and. by the way. that is water over the dam anyway. let us take the situation we are in . finally. the argument about lack of space. we are so fraught with lack of space. we have been given plenty of space over the years. but we just gobble it up. and we will gobble up this additional space within a short time. i do  k what the proponents of the measure suggest is egh space for each staff member. i think we talked about osha estimates of 125 or 150 square feet. but we all k we will soon be right back where we are . i just do  understand the proponents argument that that situation will be taken care of with this new building.
. on april 30. the senate unanimously passed a joint resolution (s.j. res. 119) authorizing the vietnam veterans memorial fund inc. to erect a memorial to the more than 2.7 million veterans of the vietnam war. to be located here in the district of columbia. the memorial will commemorate the toils of the men and women who served in this nations longest and perhaps most anguishing war. i rise today to ask that a story. by syndicated columnist james j. kilpatrick. be reprinted in the record. i do so because. in this article. mr. kilpatrick recognizes the outstanding leadership provided by my good friend from maryland. senator mathias. in this worthy effort. senator mathias secured the prompt and unanimous cosponsorship of the senate for this measure. and i join in commending his hard work and dedication. many of my colleagues are also aware of the time and effort devoted by the distinguished senator from virginia. senator warner. he. like senator mathias. has taken the lead in activities to insure that the service and sacrifice of millions of americans be appropriately hoed through the construction of this memorial. i ask unanimous consent that the statement by mr. kilpatrick be printed in the record.
. most of the debate today has been concentrated on oil and gas leasing provisions. with very strong objections to the provisions included in this bill. we do  think that the differences are of any significance. but. etheless. this is an attempt to accommodate those who would object to our amendment. so. we made these changes to conform with the original committee bill. i agree with the senator from colorado. that i hope this amendment will be accepted to iron out any possible complaints.
it will take a minute to get that information. in answer to the question of the senator from michigan. i do make one point here. which has been overlooked. there is a lot of discussion on the floor that we are just leaving a great big ditch there of value to anybody. again. take a look and you will see that from columbus south has been completed and that the socalled ditch can be used. the locks and dams are there. they are  only there. at columbus. they are farther down. including in demopolis itself. where there is a lock and dam that has been constructed. so i wish we would  have any additional talk about just and empty ditch lying there. incomplete. in the event this project is terminated.
i k how the senator feels about that. lie has spoken on this subject before. i think he will find most of the americans that receive the benefits of this are serving in countries that are  terribly attractive countries from the point of view of living. i think the example of working in a foundry in wisconsin is really  a very good example. i worked in a foundry at home when i was going through college. it is everything the senator saidterribly hot. steamy. pouring that molten iron is hot work and dangerous work. but when that was over. i was in lovely rhode island. down at the beach. swilmming. with saturdays and weekends off.
. still reserving the right to object. i. for one. look forward to that clarification by the majority leader. because it seems to me that this can lead to untold problems. people may think of the ramifications of the vote they took that morning. or whenever it was. i did  k it went back 30 days. i should like to review my own record and take a look and see what i have done. we have had an awful lot of votes around here. in any event. i will  object. because i k how accommodating the senior senator from new york is on many things. can we look forward to this clarification fairly soon.
. i support the amendment to halt funding of the garrison diversion project until an accelerated study can be conducted to examine alternatives that will meet th dakotas water resource needs and that will resolve the international and environmental problems i have outlined.
. i would like to inquire of the distinguished floor manager of the bill. my friend from idaho. as to the level of funding for the national park service rivers and trails technical assistance prograin.
i thank the distinguished chairman of the interior appropriations committee.  only has he worked long and hard to bring this bill to the floor but also in his capacity as chairman of the energy and natural resources committee. i -would like to raise one other matter. when the house passed h.r. 3363. it contained a provision sponsored by congressman st grma114 from rhode island and congressman early from massachusetts which provided $100.000 for the national park service to study the blackstone rivers potential as a park. this provi-. sion is very important to me as well as my colleague. mr. pell. who has worked hard to secure funds for a study. the river area to be studied runs a distance of about 45 milesfrom worchester. mass.. to providence. r.i. this river has played a key role in the industrial development of the region and rhode island and massachusetts are working to establish parks along the waterway. it is a beautiful area rich in history and i believe it is well worth studying as potential parkland. i e however that funds for this study are  included in the senate bill.
your argument is well taken but i think this cooperation can occur without moving the program away from epa. i am willing to work with you to achieve it. my staff has been in contact with epa on this matter and they have expressed a strong willingness to enlist as assistance in carrying out monitoring and assessment activities. and. i am sure if they review the discussion we are  having. it will provide an added incentive for them to work more closely with a in the future. given our mutual interest in having epa utilize the services of a. may i suggest that in lieu of a mandatory transfer of the $4 million. we direct epa to transfer up to $4 million to a for monitoring and assessment activities and for reports to epa on the findings. funds transferred should be sufficient to provide establishment and operation of 60 to 80 water quality monitoring stations on the three bodies of water. quarterly sampling from a vessels. and an annual assessment of living resources in those waters. i understand a has the capacity to do this work inhouse. i believe such an approach will give epa the flexibility it needs in designing its program and will make a a partner in the process which will lead us to our common goalthe clean up of narragansett bay. long island sound. and buzzards bay.
. that is  happenstance. it happens because. first of all. there was a lot of work done in the subcommittee and the full committee by. most of all. the staff. steve shimberg and charlene sturbitts. who worked so hard in meeting with those who had problems and trying to iron them out. thus. we did  have amendments on which we had to vote in connection with this difficult piece of legislation. also. i want to thank phil cummings and kathy cudlipp for their help. we really are grateful. i think we have achieved a significant step forward today in the passage of this legislation.
. several recent articles in the new york times and the american metal market address the potential cost of copper quotas to consumers and copper fabricators. i ask that these articles be printed in the record. the articles follow: [from the new york times. june 2. 1984]
i express niy appreciation to the senator from new york. the senator from michigan. and the senator from minnesota. we also have a difficulty with the alaskan senators and we are also working on that. they are  available right  and it would be ourhope that we could arrive at some kind of a resolution of that in the morning as well. where is all of this going to lead us. obviously. it is our hope that we can get these matters squared away and we can then proceed to the consideration of the bill. and how rapidly we can dispose of it i do  kbut we certainly are trying to proceed as fast as we can. . i suggest the absence of a quorum.
. i assure the distinguished minirity leader that i am willing to give all possible consideration to adoption of the house remaining provision in conference. i can see the value in a program that will result in enhanced water quality as a benefit of mining abandoned sites.
over the last several weeks there have been articles in the washington post and the new york times on a number of problems facing the national park system. the biggest of these problems are external threats to park unitsthose activities which occur outside park boundries but nevertheless have adverse impacts on resources inside the park. these impacts often arise as a result of federally support projects and activities on contiguous federal lands. for example timber harvesting and oil and gas leasing on lands contiguous to yellowstone national park threaten the grizzly bear which often need habitat outside the parks boundries for its wellbeing. last year i introduced the wildlife and the parks act which was aimed at protecting native fish and wildlife species found within the various units of the park system. in june 1984. the subcommittee on environmental pollution held a hearing on this legislation and received testimony which confirms that threats to the parks are real and are a problem. concern over the future of the parks prompted the house to pass comprehensive park protection legislation in the last two congresses. as a result of this congressional interest the interior department has launched an initiative which wvould establish administrative procedures to resolve conflicts between parks and other federal landmanaging agencies. this certainly is a step in the right direction although the actual implementation of any new policy directives has yet to occur. history points out that previous wellintentioned efforts to protect the parks have been sidetracked. sixtysix years ago. in 1918. secretary of the interior franklin lane wrote in a letter setting forth the policy guidelines of the new park service: . in considering projects involving the establishment of new national parks or the extension of existing park areas by delimitation of national forests. you should observe what effect such delimitation would have on the administration of adjacent forest lands. and. wherever practicable. you should engage in an investigation of such park projects jointly with officers of -the forest service. in order that questions of national park and national forest policy as they affect the lands involved may be thoroughly understood. in .1964 secretary of the interior udall wrote to the director of the nps: in the development of these goals and procedures. i think it is important to emphasize that effective management of the national park system will  be achieved by programs that look only within the parks without respect to the pressures. the influences. and the needs beyond park boundaries . . . the concern of the national park service is the wilderness. the wildlife. the history. the recreational opportunities. etc.. within the areas of the system and the appropriate uses of these resources. the responsibilities of the service. however. can be solely within the boundaries of the areas it administers. secretary udalls advisory board on wildlife management said this about problems outside the parks: it would seem to us that the national park service might well take the lead in studying this problem and in formulating cooperative management plans with other agencies even though the management problem lies outside the park boundaries. in 1969 secretary hickel wrote the nps director: i am encouraged by the steps you have taken to plan jointly with other federal land managing agencies. the states and the private sector to share the recreation load in the vicinity of the areas of the national park system. i would like to see you. however. increase the emphasis on joint regional planning because in the long run the total environment in which the park is located depends on vigorous and coordinated action. there are serious gaps and inadequacies which must be remedied while opportunites still exist if the system is to fulfill the peoples need always to see and understand their heritage of history and the nafural world. you should continue your studies to identify gaps in the system and recommend to me areas that would fill them. it is my hope that we can make a significant contribution to rounding out more of the national park system in these next few years. in 1981 secretary watt wrote the nps directortwo recent developments have provided the service with the opportunity to reemphasize its basic responsibilities. first. the "state of the parks" analysis begun in 1980 should continue. and actions vigorously pursued to monitor. prevent. or mitigate significant threats. well. . here we are after 66 years and after all these directives we still havent resolved these problems. but one thing is certain: unless the appropriate federal agencies or the congress take swift action to eliminate threats to our national park system we risk losing some of our most treasured and spectacular natural. culture and historical resources. in setting up our park system. the united states provided a model for other nations to establish their own parks. we can be proud of our vision and foresight in setting aside these areas and  we must continue our efforts to ensure they will be protected for future generations. . in the coming months i will be working with my colleagues. the department of interior and other interested organizations to continue the development of strategies to protect our national parks. at this point. i ask that the newspaper articles be printed in the record. the articles follow. [from the washington post. june 23. 1985]
. these are important bills. companion measures have been introduced in the house and are being supported by the natural resources defense council. world wildlife fundunited states. national audubon society. national wildlife federation. sierra club. and environmental policy institute. i urge my colleagues in the senate to review these measures and to join us as cospollsors. prompt attention and hearings before the senate foreign relations committee would be extremely helpful.
 was absolutely correct in deciding what was right for the national ecoy and for the consumer. these quotas would cost consumers $14 billion in added shoe prices in the first 4 years. would hit low income consumers the hardest. and would cost up to $70.000 per year for each job saved. this bill would limit footwear imports to about 600 million pairs. raising shoe prices for imported shoes by 18.8 percent and for domestic shoes by 11.4 percent. why should consumers bear these costs for an industry which can even fulfill the quota allotted to it under this bill. u.s. production could  equal. at least in the early years of these quotas. the 40 percent market share setaside for it under the bill. the footwear industry must modernize. as the textile industry has done. and consolidate to overcome the advantage of lowwage foreign producers. but in a protected market. inefficient footwear producers have incentive to improve and efficient producers may relax their efforts. its one thing to enforce agreements we have from other countries relating to textile and apparel trade. and its quite aher to invite retaliation because of unilateral footwear quotas. such action does  make sense. the real losers will be american consumers. including rhode islanders who are struggling to make ends meet. even more unacceptable. this bill  contains an amendment intended to limit copper imports. metalworkers in my state depend for their livelihood on lowcost imported copper. restrictions on imported copper will eventually lead these metalworkers to the congress to ask for quotas. i can support this kind of wholesale protection and thus must vote against this bill.
. i thank the junior senator from louisiana for those kind remarks. because he has carried the lead oar in this matter. i wish to thank him very much for what he has done and for marshaling the forces. he has summoned up a very substantial.  only number of speakers for his amendment. but a very substantial total number of senators. i do  k how many in all. but i believe there were 47 that signed that letter to the armed services committee.
. this is an important bill. it is supported by numerous groups including the natural resources defense council. world wildlife fundu.s.. -national audubon society. national wildlife federation. sierra club. and environmental policy institute. senator roth. members of the foreign relations committee. -including the distinguished chairman. senator lugar. senators evans and pell. and -out .colleagues in -the house should all be congratulated for their efforts and for presenting us with the opportunity to enact this legislation.
 for signature. this bill provides national recognition to the blackstone river valley. the cradle of the american industrial revolution. i regret that the house of representatives did  agree to the full amount of funding the senate legislation had originally provided. the senate version of the bill provided for $500.000 for 5 years to establish a 19member commission. this amount was reduced to $250.000 by amendments adopted by the house of representatives. the purpose of this measure is to preserve for the benefit and inspiration of present and future generations the cultural. historical. recreational. and ecoic resources of the blackstone river valley corridor. this bill is  only important to the states of rhode island and massachusetts. but to the nation as well. the mills. villages. transportation networks. and social history of the settlers of the blackstone river valley tell the story of the industrialization of 18th and 19th century america. from the blackstone valley an appreciation of the larger national patterns of industrial development may be gained. - the blackstone valley illustrates several historical themes which are at present underrepresented in the national park system. three factors distinguish the blackstone valley from other industrial regions. the valley is the first industrial region in the united states. the first widespread use of waterpower for industry occurred along the blackstone river. and lastly. the rhode island system of manufacturing developed here. the water power potential of the river and its waterfalls played an important part in the development of the blackstone valley. in 1793. an event occurred that would change the history of america. in that year samuel slater constructed the first water powered mill in pawtucket along the banks of the blackstone. the american industrial revolution was born. as the industrial revolution took hold. entrepreneurs looked for ways to move their goods more cheaply. construction of the providence to worcester canal began in 1823 and was completed in 1828. the construction of the providence to worcester railroad along the river made the canal uncompetitive. and the blackstone canal quickly lost its prominence. however. the impact of the canal on the development of providence. worcester. and the towns and villages of the valley was considerable. in 1983. congress requested that the national park service assess the national significance of the blackstone river corridor. the national park service prepared a report. "conservation options." to address future options to conserve the blackstone valley corridor. the draft report suggests the development of an interstate heritage protection plan complemented by an expanded level of federal recognition. support. and technical assistance. the legislation takes account of the recommendations of the national park service. and builds upon the research and the efforts of the departments of environmental management in rhode island and massachusetts. the rhode island blackstone citizens advisory committee. and other interested parties. this bill provides national recognition for the corridor. lending distinction to this important project. this legislation will establish a commission to develop a unified historic preservation and interpretation plan for the corridor in rhode island and massachusetts. the commission will operate for 5 years and will assist in the marketing and implementation of the plan. for example. the commission will assist in the restoration of historic buildings. the preservation of the canal. or the reconstruction of the towpath. it will assist in the establishment. design. and maintenance of the visitors centers. the operating budget for the commission will  exceed $250.000 per year. the commission will be composed of 19 members. including the director of the national park service. the directors of the departments of environmental management of rhode island and massachusetts. the directors of the departments of ecoic development for the two states. four representatives of local government from each state appointed by their govers to represent local interests. and two individuals from each state to represent the states interest. national designation helps to assure that the cultural. historical. natural. and recreational resources of the corridor realize full potential. we can help to establish a legacy of the past as well as develop a vision for the future of the valley. with our assistance today the vision of a renewed blackstone valley and park will become a reality. i urge my colleagues to join with senator p z. and myself in supporting this important and worthwhile bill.
. i support the amendment to halt funding of the garrison diversion project until an accelerated study can be conducted to examine alternatives that will meet th dakotas water resource needs and that will resolve the international and environmental problems i have outlined.
. i would like to inquire of the distinguished floor manager of the bill. my friend from idaho. as to the level of funding for the national park service rivers and trails technical assistance prograin.
i thank the distinguished chairman of the interior appropriations committee.  only has he worked long and hard to bring this bill to the floor but also in his capacity as chairman of the energy and natural resources committee. i -would like to raise one other matter. when the house passed h.r. 3363. it contained a provision sponsored by congressman st grma114 from rhode island and congressman early from massachusetts which provided $100.000 for the national park service to study the blackstone rivers potential as a park. this provi-. sion is very important to me as well as my colleague. mr. pell. who has worked hard to secure funds for a study. the river area to be studied runs a distance of about 45 milesfrom worchester. mass.. to providence. r.i. this river has played a key role in the industrial development of the region and rhode island and massachusetts are working to establish parks along the waterway. it is a beautiful area rich in history and i believe it is well worth studying as potential parkland. i e however that funds for this study are  included in the senate bill.
your argument is well taken but i think this cooperation can occur without moving the program away from epa. i am willing to work with you to achieve it. my staff has been in contact with epa on this matter and they have expressed a strong willingness to enlist as assistance in carrying out monitoring and assessment activities. and. i am sure if they review the discussion we are  having. it will provide an added incentive for them to work more closely with a in the future. given our mutual interest in having epa utilize the services of a. may i suggest that in lieu of a mandatory transfer of the $4 million. we direct epa to transfer up to $4 million to a for monitoring and assessment activities and for reports to epa on the findings. funds transferred should be sufficient to provide establishment and operation of 60 to 80 water quality monitoring stations on the three bodies of water. quarterly sampling from a vessels. and an annual assessment of living resources in those waters. i understand a has the capacity to do this work inhouse. i believe such an approach will give epa the flexibility it needs in designing its program and will make a a partner in the process which will lead us to our common goalthe clean up of narragansett bay. long island sound. and buzzards bay.
. that is  happenstance. it happens because. first of all. there was a lot of work done in the subcommittee and the full committee by. most of all. the staff. steve shimberg and charlene sturbitts. who worked so hard in meeting with those who had problems and trying to iron them out. thus. we did  have amendments on which we had to vote in connection with this difficult piece of legislation. also. i want to thank phil cummings and kathy cudlipp for their help. we really are grateful. i think we have achieved a significant step forward today in the passage of this legislation.
. several recent articles in the new york times and the american metal market address the potential cost of copper quotas to consumers and copper fabricators. i ask that these articles be printed in the record. the articles follow: [from the new york times. june 2. 1984]
i express niy appreciation to the senator from new york. the senator from michigan. and the senator from minnesota. we also have a difficulty with the alaskan senators and we are also working on that. they are  available right  and it would be ourhope that we could arrive at some kind of a resolution of that in the morning as well. where is all of this going to lead us. obviously. it is our hope that we can get these matters squared away and we can then proceed to the consideration of the bill. and how rapidly we can dispose of it i do  kbut we certainly are trying to proceed as fast as we can. . i suggest the absence of a quorum.
. i assure the distinguished minirity leader that i am willing to give all possible consideration to adoption of the house remaining provision in conference. i can see the value in a program that will result in enhanced water quality as a benefit of mining abandoned sites.
over the last several weeks there have been articles in the washington post and the new york times on a number of problems facing the national park system. the biggest of these problems are external threats to park unitsthose activities which occur outside park boundries but nevertheless have adverse impacts on resources inside the park. these impacts often arise as a result of federally support projects and activities on contiguous federal lands. for example timber harvesting and oil and gas leasing on lands contiguous to yellowstone national park threaten the grizzly bear which often need habitat outside the parks boundries for its wellbeing. last year i introduced the wildlife and the parks act which was aimed at protecting native fish and wildlife species found within the various units of the park system. in june 1984. the subcommittee on environmental pollution held a hearing on this legislation and received testimony which confirms that threats to the parks are real and are a problem. concern over the future of the parks prompted the house to pass comprehensive park protection legislation in the last two congresses. as a result of this congressional interest the interior department has launched an initiative which wvould establish administrative procedures to resolve conflicts between parks and other federal landmanaging agencies. this certainly is a step in the right direction although the actual implementation of any new policy directives has yet to occur. history points out that previous wellintentioned efforts to protect the parks have been sidetracked. sixtysix years ago. in 1918. secretary of the interior franklin lane wrote in a letter setting forth the policy guidelines of the new park service: . in considering projects involving the establishment of new national parks or the extension of existing park areas by delimitation of national forests. you should observe what effect such delimitation would have on the administration of adjacent forest lands. and. wherever practicable. you should engage in an investigation of such park projects jointly with officers of -the forest service. in order that questions of national park and national forest policy as they affect the lands involved may be thoroughly understood. in .1964 secretary of the interior udall wrote to the director of the nps: in the development of these goals and procedures. i think it is important to emphasize that effective management of the national park system will  be achieved by programs that look only within the parks without respect to the pressures. the influences. and the needs beyond park boundaries . . . the concern of the national park service is the wilderness. the wildlife. the history. the recreational opportunities. etc.. within the areas of the system and the appropriate uses of these resources. the responsibilities of the service. however. can be solely within the boundaries of the areas it administers. secretary udalls advisory board on wildlife management said this about problems outside the parks: it would seem to us that the national park service might well take the lead in studying this problem and in formulating cooperative management plans with other agencies even though the management problem lies outside the park boundaries. in 1969 secretary hickel wrote the nps director: i am encouraged by the steps you have taken to plan jointly with other federal land managing agencies. the states and the private sector to share the recreation load in the vicinity of the areas of the national park system. i would like to see you. however. increase the emphasis on joint regional planning because in the long run the total environment in which the park is located depends on vigorous and coordinated action. there are serious gaps and inadequacies which must be remedied while opportunites still exist if the system is to fulfill the peoples need always to see and understand their heritage of history and the nafural world. you should continue your studies to identify gaps in the system and recommend to me areas that would fill them. it is my hope that we can make a significant contribution to rounding out more of the national park system in these next few years. in 1981 secretary watt wrote the nps directortwo recent developments have provided the service with the opportunity to reemphasize its basic responsibilities. first. the "state of the parks" analysis begun in 1980 should continue. and actions vigorously pursued to monitor. prevent. or mitigate significant threats. well. . here we are after 66 years and after all these directives we still havent resolved these problems. but one thing is certain: unless the appropriate federal agencies or the congress take swift action to eliminate threats to our national park system we risk losing some of our most treasured and spectacular natural. culture and historical resources. in setting up our park system. the united states provided a model for other nations to establish their own parks. we can be proud of our vision and foresight in setting aside these areas and  we must continue our efforts to ensure they will be protected for future generations. . in the coming months i will be working with my colleagues. the department of interior and other interested organizations to continue the development of strategies to protect our national parks. at this point. i ask that the newspaper articles be printed in the record. the articles follow. [from the washington post. june 23. 1985]
. these are important bills. companion measures have been introduced in the house and are being supported by the natural resources defense council. world wildlife fundunited states. national audubon society. national wildlife federation. sierra club. and environmental policy institute. i urge my colleagues in the senate to review these measures and to join us as cospollsors. prompt attention and hearings before the senate foreign relations committee would be extremely helpful.
 was absolutely correct in deciding what was right for the national ecoy and for the consumer. these quotas would cost consumers $14 billion in added shoe prices in the first 4 years. would hit low income consumers the hardest. and would cost up to $70.000 per year for each job saved. this bill would limit footwear imports to about 600 million pairs. raising shoe prices for imported shoes by 18.8 percent and for domestic shoes by 11.4 percent. why should consumers bear these costs for an industry which can even fulfill the quota allotted to it under this bill. u.s. production could  equal. at least in the early years of these quotas. the 40 percent market share setaside for it under the bill. the footwear industry must modernize. as the textile industry has done. and consolidate to overcome the advantage of lowwage foreign producers. but in a protected market. inefficient footwear producers have incentive to improve and efficient producers may relax their efforts. its one thing to enforce agreements we have from other countries relating to textile and apparel trade. and its quite aher to invite retaliation because of unilateral footwear quotas. such action does  make sense. the real losers will be american consumers. including rhode islanders who are struggling to make ends meet. even more unacceptable. this bill  contains an amendment intended to limit copper imports. metalworkers in my state depend for their livelihood on lowcost imported copper. restrictions on imported copper will eventually lead these metalworkers to the congress to ask for quotas. i can support this kind of wholesale protection and thus must vote against this bill.
. i thank the junior senator from louisiana for those kind remarks. because he has carried the lead oar in this matter. i wish to thank him very much for what he has done and for marshaling the forces. he has summoned up a very substantial.  only number of speakers for his amendment. but a very substantial total number of senators. i do  k how many in all. but i believe there were 47 that signed that letter to the armed services committee.
. this is an important bill. it is supported by numerous groups including the natural resources defense council. world wildlife fundu.s.. -national audubon society. national wildlife federation. sierra club. and environmental policy institute. senator roth. members of the foreign relations committee. -including the distinguished chairman. senator lugar. senators evans and pell. and -out .colleagues in -the house should all be congratulated for their efforts and for presenting us with the opportunity to enact this legislation.
 for signature. this bill provides national recognition to the blackstone river valley. the cradle of the american industrial revolution. i regret that the house of representatives did  agree to the full amount of funding the senate legislation had originally provided. the senate version of the bill provided for $500.000 for 5 years to establish a 19member commission. this amount was reduced to $250.000 by amendments adopted by the house of representatives. the purpose of this measure is to preserve for the benefit and inspiration of present and future generations the cultural. historical. recreational. and ecoic resources of the blackstone river valley corridor. this bill is  only important to the states of rhode island and massachusetts. but to the nation as well. the mills. villages. transportation networks. and social history of the settlers of the blackstone river valley tell the story of the industrialization of 18th and 19th century america. from the blackstone valley an appreciation of the larger national patterns of industrial development may be gained. - the blackstone valley illustrates several historical themes which are at present underrepresented in the national park system. three factors distinguish the blackstone valley from other industrial regions. the valley is the first industrial region in the united states. the first widespread use of waterpower for industry occurred along the blackstone river. and lastly. the rhode island system of manufacturing developed here. the water power potential of the river and its waterfalls played an important part in the development of the blackstone valley. in 1793. an event occurred that would change the history of america. in that year samuel slater constructed the first water powered mill in pawtucket along the banks of the blackstone. the american industrial revolution was born. as the industrial revolution took hold. entrepreneurs looked for ways to move their goods more cheaply. construction of the providence to worcester canal began in 1823 and was completed in 1828. the construction of the providence to worcester railroad along the river made the canal uncompetitive. and the blackstone canal quickly lost its prominence. however. the impact of the canal on the development of providence. worcester. and the towns and villages of the valley was considerable. in 1983. congress requested that the national park service assess the national significance of the blackstone river corridor. the national park service prepared a report. "conservation options." to address future options to conserve the blackstone valley corridor. the draft report suggests the development of an interstate heritage protection plan complemented by an expanded level of federal recognition. support. and technical assistance. the legislation takes account of the recommendations of the national park service. and builds upon the research and the efforts of the departments of environmental management in rhode island and massachusetts. the rhode island blackstone citizens advisory committee. and other interested parties. this bill provides national recognition for the corridor. lending distinction to this important project. this legislation will establish a commission to develop a unified historic preservation and interpretation plan for the corridor in rhode island and massachusetts. the commission will operate for 5 years and will assist in the marketing and implementation of the plan. for example. the commission will assist in the restoration of historic buildings. the preservation of the canal. or the reconstruction of the towpath. it will assist in the establishment. design. and maintenance of the visitors centers. the operating budget for the commission will  exceed $250.000 per year. the commission will be composed of 19 members. including the director of the national park service. the directors of the departments of environmental management of rhode island and massachusetts. the directors of the departments of ecoic development for the two states. four representatives of local government from each state appointed by their govers to represent local interests. and two individuals from each state to represent the states interest. national designation helps to assure that the cultural. historical. natural. and recreational resources of the corridor realize full potential. we can help to establish a legacy of the past as well as develop a vision for the future of the valley. with our assistance today the vision of a renewed blackstone valley and park will become a reality. i urge my colleagues to join with senator p z. and myself in supporting this important and worthwhile bill.
 last ember. authorizes the national park service to join a cooperative effort of rhode island and massachusetts to showcase the history and culture of 46 miles of the blackstone river between worcester. ma and slaters mill in pawtucket. ri. the blackstone river valley is the birthplace of the american industrial revolution. this is where we fought an ecoic battle that changed the world. in order for a commission to be established and get on with the important work of planning the corridor. i would ask the distinguished floor manager if he would give me an assurance that when the supplemental appropriations bill is in conference. that he would consider acceding to the house regarding the blackstone river valley national heritage corridor.
. we are trying to get all the principals involved. we are waiting for the junior senator from idaho. it is our view if we could get him herehe is on his waywe would then be able to iron out perhaps an. amendment that he would have and thus move very quickly to the passage of this. that is what we are trying to do.
. i have a letter here dated april 6. 1987. from dr. margaret kripke. who is chairman of the department of immuogy at the university of texas. and it is addressed to dr. david gibbons. who is the deputy associate director for natural resources at omb. i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record.
. on february 19. 1987. i introduced legislation to implement the provisions of annex v to the international convention for the prevention of pollution from ships. the bill. s. 560. would make it illegal for ships operating in the united states to intentionally dump plastic garbage. recently. my distinguished colleague from delaware. senator roth. and i wrote to senator pell. chairman of the committee on foreign relations and to senator helms. ranking miity member on the committee urging them to give prompt attention to ratification of this important treaty. i ask at this time that both the letter and senator helms response be included in the record following these remarks. marpol annex v relates to the dumping of all plastics and other types of garbage. the annex contains three provisions. the first prohibits the discharge of all plastics in any ocean. prohibited dumping of other floating garbage closer than 25 miles from the nearest shoreline is the second stipulation. third. annex v designates certain "special areas" where dumping is allowed. these areas currently include the black. red. baltic. and mediterranean seas and the persian/oman gulf. to go into effect. annex v must be ratified by a minimum of 15 countries representing at least 50 percent of the worlds shipping tonnage. twelve months after this requirement is met. the act will go into effect. presently. 27 countries. representiig 41.08 percent of the worlds shipping tonnage. are signatories to annex v. ratification by the united states would increase tonnage by 4 percent. other countries are expected to follow our lead and ratify annex v. annex v was sent from the white house to the u.s. senate in february 1987 for ratification. it is currently awaiting action by the foreign relations committee. i hope that the foreign relations committee will take favorable action on our request and quickly ratify annex v.
. today i am joining with senator durenberger to introduce legislation in the senate to protect our children from the adverse health effects of lead poisoning. we have kn since the time of the romans that lead is a dangerous poison. yet here we are. in 1988. confronting the problem of lead entering our drinking water supply from lead pipes and lead in drinking water coolera. this is  a problem. like radon. which we have little control over. this is a problem we have created ourselves by using lead in places where it actually come5 in contact with our drinking water. last december i testified before the house subcommittee on health and the environment on the general problem of lead in drinking water. in particular the hearing focused on the suspicion that lead in certain water coolers could pose a health hazard. well this is longer a suspicion. i am shocked to learn that twothirds. 8 out of 12. of the halsey taylor water coolers tested by the environmental protection agency contained leadlined tanks. water from one of these tanks contained lead levels 100 times greater than the epa proposed standard. it is frightening to think that an unkn number of these tanks could be dispensing water at this very moment to an unsuspecting schoolage child. the problem takes on even more urgency when you stop to think about the water use patterns in schools. water will often sit in water coolers during school periods. or overnight. or even over weekends and vacations. this allows the lead time to leach into. the water at alarmingly high concentrations. insult was added to injury when. in response to a congressional inquiry. halsey taylor indicated that it "never designed or manufactured a water cooler that used a leadlined or lead tank." unfortunately independent testing has proven this statement wrong.  congress and the executive branch must act quickly to protect public health. especially the health of our children. from this threat. the legislation we are introducing today will require epa to ban the *manufacture or sale of drinking water coolers containing lead which comes in contact with drinking water supplies. and will initiate a federal program to help schools identify and replace water coolers containing lead. it will also authorize a federal program to help schools across the country evaluate the lead contamination levels of their tap water. and to assist schools in taking actions to lower lead levels. we can continue to expose our children to unacceptably high levels of lead. there is doubt in the medical community that lead. even at relatively low doses. causes impaired intellectual development. i am hopeful that our colleagues in both houses of congress will act swiftly to enact this legislation designed to protect our young from the insidious effects of lead polsoning.e by mr. trible (for himself.
. let me point out that when this bill was first introduced it contained a title dealing with insurance and compensation .issues. this section would have created a workmans compensation type of system for fishing vessel crewmen. which would have replaced the current inefficient. inequitable system of litigation we have today in the fishing industry. however. due to a successful lobbying effort by the trial lawyers association. who managed to defeat this bill on the floor of the house last year. and the inability of the lawyers and the fishermen to agree on an acceptable scheme. this section has been removed. regrettably. i hope that my colleagues in the senate will follow the lead of the house of representatives. and act quickly to give final approval to this legislation. we must  allow more lives to be needlessly lost at sea.
 in 1986. authorizes the national park service to join a cooperative effort of rhode island and massachusetts to showcase the history and culture of 46 miles of the blackstone river between worchester. ma. and slaters mill in pawtucket. ri. the blackstone river valley is the birthplace of the american industrial revolution. this is where we fought an ecoic battle that changed the world. in order for the commission to continue the important work of planning the corridor. i would ask the distinguished floor managers if they would give us an assurance that when the interior appropriations bill is in conference. that they will consider acceding to the house regarding the blackstone river valley national heritage corridor.
. if i might just take 1 minute. i also thank the distinguished senator from idaho for his contributions. anytime the senator from idaho is involved in a piroblem. he gives it a lot of thought and careful attention. and we have grown to recognize that over many years. it has been my privilege to have worked with him on matters where we have  been in agreement. but there is question but that he has analyzed the problem and many is the time that we have been able to iron out our differences. i have learned from experience that when the senior senator from idaho rises to discuss any of these environmental matters. he has given them a lot of thought and has a major contribution to make. so i thank him for his contributions.
. h.r. 2119. a bill to exchange lands in madison county. il. was introduced in the house of representatives by congressman jrry costello of illis on april 26. 1989. and was approved by voice vote on may 11. senator simon introduced companion legislation. s. 961. on may 10. 1989. h.r. 2119 would authorize the united states to convey its interest in a parcel of land acquired in connection with the construction of the melvin price lock and dam on the mississippi river at alton. il. to thp blue tee corp. in exchange for the conveyance to the united states of the corporations interest in aher parcel of land in the same locality. the land swap will allow the city of alton to relocate the blue tee corp.s scrap steel operation and facilitate the development of a small boating dock and marina when the pool behind the lock and dam is raised. i have three amendments to offer. the first would merely provide that the federal land be transferred to the united states of america rather than to the secretary of the army. the second amendment would add a new section to the bill and is designed to ensure that the federal government receives the full value for the federal property involved in the transaction. the final amendment underscores the intentions of congressman costello and senator simon that the federal government incur costs in the land transaction. i would like to thank the distinguished chairman of the committee on environment and public works. senator burdick. and senator simon for helping to move this bill through the senate and urge its adoption as amended.* taxaide
. americas clean water foundation is working with the congress. the administration. and some 60 national water related organizations to rekindle this nations grassroots commitment to clean water. in passing this resolution. we in the congress will help the foundation launch its 3 year campaign to commemorate the 20th anniversary of the clean water act. nearly two decades have passed since we. the members of congress. enacted the federal water pollution control act amendments of 1972. since that time. we have made tremendous progress. even so. water protection is a dynamic process requiring the continual vigilance of the amercan public. much has been accomplished and much remains to be done. over two decades we have addressed discreet sources of pollution coming from municipalities and industrial sites. . we must focus on point sources. toxics pollution. stormwater ruf. and pollution in our oceann. bays. and estuaries. to me. . the commemoration of two decades of water pollution control in this country is a testament to all we have tried to achieve and i rise in strong support of this important resolution. as a founding member of the board of govers. i congratulate americas clean water foundation for its willingness to take the lead in bringing the message of clean water to the attention of every american citizen.
. this is a big and complex bill. my colleagues and i have worked on it for several months and believe that it is a good bill. but it can be made better and will doubtless change some through hearings and markups. we look forward to hearing from other senators and from the wide variety of interests affected by the legislation. and we look forward to reporting to the senate a tough. realistic bill that will lead to the first comprehensive clean air legislation enacted since 1977.
i am informed that when it is issued as a penalty. that is right. but many of the courts have done exactly what i said: pursuant to the arguments of the citizen. and in this case. the citizens quite frequently -are the environmental defense fund. the natural resources defense counell or the wilderness society. they have adopted the mitigation proposals that i mentioned earlier.
. i would  only like to thank the senators that i mentioned previously. plus the distinghshed senators from mississippi. but also to thank their staffs. this has been an elaborate matter that we have been working on starting last thursday. extending into friday. i k that the staffs were here yesterday. sunday. trying to iron out this understanding and agreement with the absolutely forthright cooperation of the corps of engineers representatives and the epa. there were very helpful. i think it is worthwhile mentioning  only that those in the administration were so forthright and of such great assistance but also the staffs of the senators from arkansas. louisiana. and mississippi.
i have a question to the distinguished chairman of the armed services committee. whom i ice is on the floor. and the question is as follows. i have listened carefully both to him and the distinguished ranking member. everybody in this chamber ks the affection and regard i have for both of those distinguished senators. my question is: why does my colleague  accept the amendment. both of my colleagues have said they may be on a course that could lead to a change in the abm treaty. but that is  the purpose of my colleagues efforts here. i think it is also fair to recognize that among his legions of supporters on this floor there are those who cheerfully would break that treaty. and we recognize that. but i do  include the distinguished chairman of the committee in that group. so i can understand why he. as manager. does  accept the amendment.
. i am proud to be a sponsor. along with senators deconcini. burdick. and others. of the morris k. udall scholarship and excellence in national environmental policy act. i can think of member of congress more deserving of this tribute than mo udall. he was an environmentalist before it was fashionable. his list of accomplishments on behalf of the environment and the 0reservation of natural resources is too long to enumerate. as chairman of the interior committee in the house of representatives. he infused an environmental ethic into our . policies governing our national parks. mining and mineral exploration. government land. and indian tribes. the alaska lands act and comprehensive laws governing strip mining stand as major accomplishments in the career of one of the most productive legislators of our time. the senator from arizona should be commended for crafting this legislation. i am hopeful that all of my colleagues will join with us in hoing mo udall with this fitting tribute. to his 30 years of service to the nation.
madam president. i think it is regrettable that the rhetoric we have heard from the democrats this aftern has been that same old "trash the u.s.." same old "trash the president of the u.s." somehow the suggestion is that the europeans are doing everything right and we are doing everything wrong. madam president. let us take a look at the record. about the europeans. the europeans that are held up as our models. let us talk cfcs. we ended aerosol propellents that used cfcs in the mid1970s and the europeans are just getting to it . we are far ahead of the europeans in all cfc controls. the united states is way ahead of the montreal protocol. for example. let us look at unleaded gasoline. in the 1970s. in the mid1970s. in the united states we mandated catalytic converters on all new automobiles. of course. when you have a catalytic converter you can use leaded gasoline. that was a phaseout of lead in the gasoline. something we have accepted for years. indeed. the emissions of lead in our atmosphere from automobiles - has declined by 98 percent as a result of the action we took in the mid1970s. what about the europeans. well. in the european community they are starting mandatory catalytic converters on january 1. 1993. they have  even reached it yet. i do  think we ought to hold up the europeans as models to us all the time. madam president. as was mentioned previously. the president of the united states has been scolded for  going to rio. so today he annced he is going to rio. and he is scolded. he is scolded because -he is going to rio. and indeed i understand there were some remarks on the floor earlier that it is so late that they ought to hold back any funds that he might expend for going to rio. i think we ought to celebrate. madam president. the president of the united states going to rio. i think personally it is wonderful. i am delighted. i all along hoped that he would go. i urged him to go and today he annced he is going. and i think that is splendid. just as the united states did with cfcs. just as the united states did with cleaner automobiles. just as the united states did with the clean air act. we have to assure the united states leads in controlling climate change in the world. that means we have to lead in the reduction of greenhouse gases such as com. and methane and others. how are we going to do it. one approach is just to trash the president and denigrate him. say hing can be done until ember. he is doing it all wrong. he is appealing to all the wrong elements in our society. i do  believe in that approach. may 1_4 1992 i think what we ought to do ourselves is get into harness. all of us as individual citizens of the world. as well as elected representatives in this body. act as leaders and demonstrate to the administration that we are ready to go and we welcome the presidents full participation. madam president. i am confident we will receive that full participation and full support. there is a big challenge out there. it is  going to be done by divisive comments. comments that compare us unfavorably with everybody else in the world and say we are doing everything wrong. we are doing plenty right. madam president. in connection with the environment.  what we have to do is buckle down. all of us say we can do better. and if we think the president is  being forceful or aggressive egh. then say so to him. urge his participation. and indicate that we are ready to go with it. i thank the chair.
. i would like to thank my colleague. senator cran8ton. who has long been concerned with the issue of lead poisoning. for working with those of us on the environmental committee. and for ac commodating so many of our concerns in title x. i would also like to thank my colleague on the environmental committee. senator rzm. who for 3 years has tirelessly fought for legislation to reduce exposure to lead. i look forward to seeing the results from this significant new program.
the flood control project for ste. genevieve presents a truly unique situation deserving of a unique legislative response. i will work with the senator from missouri to deal with the costsharing issue before he retires from the senate.
. today i am introducing legislation to grant temporary duty suspensions for the importation of several chemical products. these products are colorants that are used in the coating. ink. and plastic industries. and they are particularly important because they are used to replace colorants that use heavy- metals such as lead and cadmium. duty is placed on foreign products in order to prevent harm to u.s. companies producing the same product. however. in this case. e of the colorants in question is produced in the united states. that means that the granting of these duty suspensions should  affect any domestic chemical industry. that also means that these particular duties serve solely as an added cost to those u.s. companies who need the products and must purchase them from foreign firms. we have one such company in my state. and it employs some 850 persons in a town with a population of just 31.000. making it the major employer. in this difficult ecoic time. the significant cost of these duties can be passed on to the companys customers. that means the company. faced with losing customers or cutting back internally. has choice but to cut back to the bone internally. this kind of cost reduction effort inevitably threatens jobs. enactment of these duty suspensions will ensure that our domestic coating. ink. and plastics industry compete fairly with foreign competitors. our foreign competitors do  have to pay the extra costs imposed by these duties. by paying these duties. our industry is placed at a competitive disadvantage. the bill i am introducing today would grant duty suspensions through december 31. 1998. it is my hope that congress soon will move to enact comprehensive duty suspension legislation that will include these provisions. i ask unanimous consent that the legislation be printed in the record.
here is the problem. thereis question but what the case the senator from arizona presented in connection with ales is an appealing one and of deep concern. but we do  k what the cases are from the other states. we have here an amendment for water infrastructure from senator grassley. from senator coverdell. from senator hatfield. from senator domenici. from senators stevens and murkowski. from senator pressler. from senators bennett and hatch. and others. and aher. senator chafee. actually. . so it seems to me what we have to do is put these in some kind of priority. i mean the case that the senator- from arizona made is an appealing one. butis that of greater importance for this limited amount of money that the appropriations committee has appropriated last year. dependent upon the authorization. than these others. i think in fairness to these others who have held back. we have to in some fashion weigh them. it may well be that the senator from arizona will have the lead role. but we do  k. so. as i understand what the senator from arizona is suggesting. that while we have  actually appropriated  actually required that .the appropriations take place. we have passed it over to the epa. but my experience around here is that most of the senators do  want to have these decisions to remain in the epa. what is the epa going to have before it. if this is all we pass today in connection with this bill and the others hold off. then that is all epa has before it. i think it is better. in fairness to the others who may have powerful cases and may . to at least have a chance to hear them out and do it in an orderly fashion as we try to do when we come up with the clean water act. so for those reasons i join with the manager of the bill. and oppose the amendment by the senator from arizona.
let me say briefly. this. in my state i have always been a supporter of the bottle bill. but then it turns out that in ourrecycling efforts. the thing that makes the recycling effort go is the fact that the recycling center is able to earn money from the aluminum cans. it is the big money earner for the recycling center and helps carry everything else. - so in our state. we will  want a bottle bill where you would make a deposit and bring it back to the central place and get your refund because that would deprive our recycling cetters of this constant flow of very valuable income. but that may be a unique situation.
. this legislation is vitally important for countless states and communities across the country. for ecoic and lifesafety reasons. we must maintain our harbors. ports and inland waterways. our flood control levees and shorelines. and the environment. despite the fact that this package represents a 4year backlog of project authorizations. it is consistent with the overall funding levels authorized in previous water resources measures. i urge my colleagues to support the bill.
i would say to both senators from wisconsin that i share their concern about the contaminated sediment problems in the fox river. i agree that there does appear to be an urgent need for cleanup. further. i would agree that a consensusbased process for remediation should be encouraged. and may lead to a more timely remediation.
 clinton. as i say. we authorize it for $1 billion. hopefully with an appropriation this year of $725 million. that. is the first big thing. the second is that each state adopts what they call a capacity development strategy. to help these small systems. a state strategy might include what the state decides when they ask. what can we do to help each of these small communities. it is  always necessarily money for investment. sometimes it is money for training the operators in these small communities. or technical assistance on how do you develop a new safer water supply. it may be the ground water in the present area is contaminated but there may be other sources. deep wells or whatever it might be. that could produce new and safer water. so we are relying on the states to take the lead in designing this capacity enhancement strategy. what are some of the other things that can be done under this bill. the states are authorized to grant variances to small systems that can comply with the stiff requirements you impose on the big cities where they can afford it. a portion of the srf funds may be set aside for technical assistance. as i mentioned before. the cost of training operators. and the states may reduce the monitoring requirements. there is point in testing constantly for a substance that never occurs in a certain section of the country. why make the small systems constantly go through that monitoring for a contaminant that is  found in that section of the nation. as i mentioned before. when we brought this bill before the senate it passed 99 to hing. the house. in many provisions. included our language word for word. for example. in the standard setting. the standard setting is based upon science and techogy that i believe makes much more sense than the existing situation. for some contaminants. this approach to standard setting can impose large costs nationwide while producing only small gains. so we believe the science approach that we provided will reduce those large investments that have to be made. so. i believe we have here an excellent piece of legislation. again. i congratulate my colleagues.
. this legislation is vitally important for countless states and communities across the country. for ecoic and lifesafety reasons. we must maintain our harbors. ports and inland waterways. flood control levees. shorelines. and. the environment. despite the fact that this package represents a 4year backlog of project authorizations. it is consistent with the overall funding levels authorized in previous water resources measures. i urge my colleagues to support the conference report mr. presi-. dent. i would like to pay tribute to just a handful of the many individuals responsible for this important legislation. first. i would like to thank senators warner. smith. baucus. and moynihan for their hard. work as conferees. likewise. we could  have reached agreement this year without the efforts of house transportation and in-
yes. the intent here is to ensure that the costs associated with the variable flood control operation of folsom dam and reservoir be shared between the federal project sponsor and the federal government. the cost of the provision of interim flood protection to the citizens of sacramento is to. be shared.
. this legislation is vitally important for countless states and communities across the country. for ecoic and lifesafety reasons. we must maintain our harbors. ports and inland waterways. our flood control levees and shorelines. and the environment. i strongly urge adoption of the underlying bill and managers amendment.
. this legislation is vitally important for countless states and communities across the country. for ecoic and lifesafety reasons. we must maintain our harbors. ports and inland waterways. our flood control levees and shorelines. and the environment. i strongly urge adoption of the underlying bill and managers amendment.
. i am proud to follow the lead of my friend and colleague. tom meskill. in cosponsoring house joint resolution 455. during the past several years. there has been a concerted effort to accentuate the technical in our laws. while trying to obscure the fundamental reasons for our present greatness as a nation. i do  believe that the united states of america could have ever achieved its present position in the world were it  for the belief of its people in a supreme being. certainly. there had to be on occasion after occasion. an "added ingredient" other than our numbers which enabled us to prevail in the face of what must have seemed at any given time as insurmountable odds. in this regard. i am  only referring to our victories on the battlefield. but also our victories in attaining a better life for our citizens in what historically can be categorized as an extraordinarily short period of time. i attribute our good fortune as a nation as much to religionall religionsas i do to the laws that have been conceived by men. to me it is coincidence that as we have drawn farther away from accepting the viability of gods word as applied to daily problems. we have also lost much of our idealism and that national programs have emphasized the negative rather than the positive. i hope we. as a nation. will always live the dreams of a brave. idealistic nation whose citizens are dedicated to making gods word a reality in todays universe.
i gather from the senators comments that he is reinforcing the point i am trying to make. which is that he recognizes full well the responsibilities upon this body to share in such commitments as could lead this country into war.
. i rise in opposition to the amendment of the senator from texas. and i might say there is man for whom i have a greater respect in the majority of instances. although with this particular amendment he and his colleagues have gone far afield. let me state at the outset. so that my remarks are evaluated in the proper reference frame. or what  would be called "truth in packaging." that i represent the state of connecticut. where a good portion of this nations submarines are made. people can then take that input in deciding whether i speak on the basis of principle or in a parochial sense. i speak as a matter of principle on this matter as these are comments i made before becoming a senator. i am a firm believer in a first rate submarine capability. what is so dangerous about this amendment is that it attacks a concept that is being attacked in many areasspecifically. the concept of leadtime. what i find objectionable in this amendment is attacking a concept that in many instances the public does  understand. let me see if i can bring home what we are talking about here. just before i came to the floor i had the opportunity to sit down and speak with a group of young people from the state of connecticut. and one of them asked me what the united states would have going for itself in the way of achievements in the 1970s. i said. "we are going to have hing." hing because. indeed. the shape of the 1970s was determined by the budget cuts of 1967. 1968. and 1969. that is what lead time means. you do  get tomorrow what you pay for today in this highly technical and complex area of military hardware. from start to finish is calculated  in years.  days. i think the nasa example is a good one. we will have hing in the way of achievements in the 1970s because of the budgets of the late 1960s. as i have said. lead time is the easiest concept to attack because the public has a difficult time grasping its effect. as far as i am concerned. i think it highly imprudent to go ahead and plan out our submarine capabilities so that a new program does  really commence until our present capability is obsolescent. i would like a little breathing space. even under the accelerated program. the trident capability will  be in any sort of meaningful position until the early 1980s. while in fact we will be obsolescent with our polarisposeidon fleet at the end of the 1970s. i iced a statement was made in the memorandum of senators tower. ervin. sthurmond. and fannin that: we can protect against the unkn. but we can protect against the kn fact that polarisposeidon will enter the phase of obsolescence in 1979 and trident will  appear in significant quantities until the mld1980s. i think that tells the story pretty well. i think it absolutely essential. that before we reach obsolescence we have a second capability that will take us into the 1980s and beyond. i would like to comment. if i may. on several of the statements made in the memorandum-
yes. very briefly. the job of leadership is to lead and  to mislead. inequality of educational opportunity is illegal. here we have an amendment of 10 senators. representing great power. do they take a solution to that illegality to their bosom and press for it.  they blame the courts. do you k what this is. do you k what i am going to call this type of legislation. this is a probusing amendment because it is wasting our time and our power rather than using it to solve situations of inequality. this is probusing because it does  do the job that is our job. specifically as leaders of this nation to legislate against inequality of educational opportunity. this amendment is a smokescreen. it shifts the focus of responsibility. there is an illegality. it is our job to resolve it.  to point our fingers at the courts. i will vote against this probusing amendment.
. i believe that time has  altered the course of action we must take. the united states has more to gain in overall ocean interests than any other nation by the successful negotiation of a comprehensive law. of the sea treaty. we can afford to give up the negotiating process  in spite of the setbacks we have experienced recently with. respect to deep seabed mining. neither can we afford to continue to discourage the progress of our deep seabed mining industry. time has shown that the industry is  only anxious and determined to move ahead with their exploratory efforts. but they have already expended considerable effort in doing so.  is the time for us to assure the orderly development of the deep seabed mining industry and. the ecoic potential of these resources more importantly. to assure the protection of the environment in which it will be taking place. the environmental effects of deep seabed mining are only poorly understood at this point. without acceleration of the environmental assessment programs and proper regulation of the industry. development of deep seabed mining is likely to take place with little regard for the environment. the bill i am introducing today considers all of these aspects. first. it is internationalistic. it is transitional and expresses support for the successful conclusion of a law of the sea agreement. at the same time. however. it indicates what the bottom line for the united states should be in that agreement with respect to deep seabed mining. it makes claims of extraterritorial sovereignty and clearly states that until a new agreement is reached. such mining activities are entirely legal as freedom of the high seas. the bill also prohibits commercial recovery before january 1980. second. it establishes a regulatory system for the orderly development of the deep seabed mining industry applicable to u.s. citizens. and recognizing similar activities by reciprocating states. third. it provides for the acceleration of environmental assessment programs and regulation of mining activities for protection of the environment. fourth. it establishes a risksharing program which provides minimal compensation for some investment losses that may be caused by the future agreement of the united states to a new international regime. it also establishes a program to explore additional sources of financing and insurance for losses beyond those covered by the program. i believe that the time has come for us to move ahead on deep seabed mining legislation. such action is necessary  only for protection of the environment and the orderly development of a new industry. but it will also provide a stronger negotiating position for our delegation to the law of the sea conference. by demonstrating to the ideologists in the developing world that the united states is determined to move ahead with or without them. and that in order for them to share in the benefits of the common heritage of mankind. their cooperation will be necessary. i welcome the participation of my colleagues in exploring the avenues i have suggested in this bill as well as any others they may envision. i urge them also to recognize the importance of moving ahead on this legislation . i ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill along with a sectionbysection analysis be printed in the record.
and granted we did this in full kledge that we were trying to give a policy direction which the administration and mr. hall of eda were failing to give. so. to come  to the floor and say what we did was wrong or that we somehow had gotten our figures screwed up. we did . we very well knew what we were doing. we very well knew the gap that was there and we were trying to fill it. i k there are 38 senators who wanted their weather stations restored. and they got their weather stations restored. we do  see these weather stations on the list because there are 38 senators who are involved. . if we want to prepare a cut list where everyone would be affected. then believe me senators would  vote for a rothtype amendment. or touch those subjects either one ks about or those that are  politically popular at the time. this is one of the most important initiatives i think to come forth from our committee. if the administration abandons it and mr. hall abandons it. it was because of the fact that they had a pride of authorship in their own endeavors and knew how short they were in that area and did  in any way want to go ahead and follow the lead of the senate.  just of our committee but of the full senate.
let me just give two examples. even though i am  a scientist. this man at my right taught me a lot. having spent his life in the oceans. he is a great expert. we have seen what happens to wild fowl when oil gets over it. it dies. the ocean down there is different from that up here. that something special will  happen there. let me give an example to prove my point. because of the popularity of the caribbean and the islands down there. we have americans trooping down there. building houses on all these various islands. many of these islands have coral reefs around them. those reefs are dead today. within a matter of a few years. the reason why they are dead is that as the houses are built on these islands. the trees and the grass is removed and we get a silting action of just dirtjust dirtwashing into the sea. that dirt washes in. covers over the coral. suffocates it. and it is gone. it is dead in a matter of years. i think i am correct. roughly. in laymans terms. in what i have described here. it dies. it is gone. and that is the same as the ocean. that is exactly the same to the ocean as a forest fire is to land. we eliminate the habitat for the wildlife. i can believe. when we take the amount of oil that is spilling in the gulf of mexico today. it is  suffocating everything that lives below it. it is one thing to go ahead and contain it in a matter of days or weeks to a narrow area. but this has  spread hundreds and hundreds of miles and continues to do so. if we do  do anything else. i think. at least. let me have the government admit it is  capped. let me have the government of mexico admit it is  capped. and then proceed from there.
if someone wants to get him here to the floor. he was the one who sat here and took the lead on this issue. i just feel if we are going to have any semblance of order and. i might add. faith in each others word. then i would expect that we would follow the procedure agreed upon. i do  think anyone would deny it. on either side of the issue. that that was what was agreed upon.
. we accept the amendment. we can take it to conference. this amendment merely preserves the status quo whereby 30 job corps centers will remain operated by the u.s. forest service and u.s. park service. there is change in the job corps appropriation. i recommend adoption of the amendment.
. we accept the amendment. we can take it to conference. this amendment merely preserves the status quo whereby 30 job corps centers will remain operated by the u.s. forest service and u.s. park service. there is change in the job corps appropriation. i recommend adoption of the amendment.
i agree with my colleague. to suddenly change the present standards would seriously disrupt this industry and lead to the potential closing of many facilities nationwide. i ask the distinguished chairman his thoughts on this important matter.
. i rise today to ho the late senator henry m. jackson with whom i was privileged to serve with. the dedication of the th cascades national park is a fitting gesture of our respect for him. this tribute i am sure would have been very meaningful to him as i am sure it is to his family. scoop jackson was a staunch supporter of the national park system and to the protection of our nations great natural resources. june .9. 1987 senator 3ackson was a dedicated man. in congress. he was kn  by a single characterization. but one who got actively involved wherever he felt he was needed. scoop jackson was a true american. we would do well to remember his contributions to this country by this dedication.
. i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the entire university of connecticut basketball team. last night. in a muchdeserved victory. the huskies downed the buckeyes of ohio state 7267 to win their first national invitational tournament championship. trailing in the second half. the huskies of connecticut fought back. displaying the neversaydie spirit they have played with all season. and eventually prevailed over a tough big ten opponent. junior guard phil gamble had a seasonhigh 25 points to lead uconn. he had seen some tough times with this team in the past few years. but he never gave up. the same goes for the entire team. coach jim calhoun gave them hope and confidence. and one on this uconn team quit. cliff robinson had a fantastic season controlling the boards and leading the team in scoring. as did phil gamble and tate george at the guard position. connecticut natives steve pkiell and murray williams. from bristol and torrington respectively. did a great job. king. depriest. mccloud. ursery. ecoou. kibbe. simmons. spradling. the entire team. and. of course. coach calhoun and his assistants. dickenman. leitao. woodward. millerthey all deserve congratulations. they lost several tight big east games this season. many people counted them out. but the huskies played with spirit and put it all together to win the nit. i think it is a fitting and wellearned ending to their season. and it lays the foundation for even better things to come next year and beyond for the uconn basketball program. connecticut salutes the huskies on their 1988 nit championship. and the entire university for standing behind this program.e
. when we speak with sorrow and regret of the passing of our late colleague. senator robert f. kennedy. our grief mirrors that of the nation and the world. his vitality and vigor. his enthusiasm and concern. his sensitivity and compassion for the poor and underprivileged. were his most apparent public qualities. millions loved and admired him. for in these ways he represented the best that is america. we who were privileged to serve with him suffer his passing most keenly. for with his death. congress was deprived of a distinguished champion in the cause of human rights. it is given to us to mourn. but also to serve. it is given to us to bear the loss. but also to share the burden. it is given to us to lead where he had led. to fulfill the promise to the underprivileged. to spur the conscience and the imagination of a people too long dormant to the feelings of their fellow men. to his family and his multitude of friends. we extend our sympathy and our continuing support. to the millions who never knew him. but loved him for his vision and shared with him their dreams. we promise our commitment and our help. and we must dedicate ourselves anew to carry forward the ideals of brotherhood and service to man which robert kennedy so ably advanced.
. the stubborn refusal of the nfl and the th vietnamese to release any information on american prisoners of war. their refusal to permit the exchange of communication between these prisoners and their families. their refusal to release the prisoners themselves. are selfdefeating actions. military advantage is gained. either in vietnam or in regard to public pressure in the united states. propaganda advantage accrues to them in terms of world opinion. the release of american prisoners of war. or at a minimum the release of accurate information about them. would cost the vietcong and th vietnamese hing. yet it would be seen in this country and around the world as progress in an area which for too long has shown few gains. such a step would strengthen the humanities which bring even adversaries together.  is the time for the other side to make a real contribution to peace. i call upon them to consider. in this holiday season. the significance of such a course of action. i call upon them to weigh the costs and the advantages involved. i call upon them to take that action which can. more than any other single step. indicate a willingness on their part to seek a negotiated solution to the issues which presently divide us. the joy which release of american prisoners would bring in this holiday season would be unbounded. the larger significance of their action would also be heeded. and could lead to even larger steps toward a peace of reconciliation and reconstruction.
. additional support for the recommittal of the ination of judge g. harrold carswell has recently come from the editor of the christian science monitor. in a lead editorial last thursday. entitled "thinking again on judge carswell." mr. erwin canham reviewed a number of the questions which have come to light since the hearings were concluded. and urged that the ination "should be taken out of the full senates hands and be put back where it can be studied as thoughtfully as such a major appointment must be." in aher column entitled "respect for the court." mr. canham stressed the need for placing a sensitive man of higher caliber on the court. i concur in mr. canhams views. and ask unanimous consent that the text of these excellent remarks be printed in the record.
. attachment to historic sites is deeply engrained in the human experience. but here. it seems. is the urge to preserve more actively pursued than among the good people of boston. where else could a copper teakettle win a victory over urban renewal. the growth of history and tradition. the creation of national legends. continue to fascinate us all. but i believe that the effort to preserve our landmarks and our customs can prove to be equally fascinating. for this reason i ask unanimous consent that two brief articles pertaining to the preservation of historic boston landmarks be printed in the record.
. one of the most perceptive articles of our generation was published last thursday in the boston globe. written by mrs. marian can schlesinger. and entitled "a 1945 memoryand the lesson." it defines with clarity and poignancy the central fact and lesson of our age. we have lived so long with nuclear threats and theories that most of us have almost forgotten how we felt when it all began. it does us good. sometimes. to recall that simpler age when. matter what happened. we could say "life must go on"-and we knew it would. nuclear power. as mrs. schlesinger points out. has changed all that. we are cxvi1759part 21  responsible  only for our own lives. but for the lives of all mankind. our science and our techogy have forced us to face the central fact of maturitythat in our relations with other people there is winning or losing in any absolute sense. the "victor" must heed the needs of the vanquished. the strong must help the weak. nuclear power. if we can refrain from using it for selfdestruction. may yet lead us into a new and more relevant morality. that is the central theme of this thoughtful article. i ask unanimous consent that the article be printed in the record.
. i have today forwarded to senator mcclellan. chairman of the subcommittee on state. justice. commerce. and the judiciary appropriations. of the committee on appropriations. a report of my findings on immigration problems in the commonwealth of massachusetts. the -problems revealed in my report may well be typical of the problems in other states and it is my hope that this report will lead to effective remedies to what appears to be a national problem. to provide my colleagues with an opportunity to review this report. and i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record. there being objection. the items were ordered to be printed in the record. as follows:
. it is with deep regret that i learned of the loss of one of americas most inspirational educators and molders of men. frank l. boyden. who for 66 years served as headmaster of deerfield academy. died wednesday in his home in deerfield. frank boyden was a big man. though he stood only 5 feet tall. and he guided three generations of deerfield boys through adolescence and on to distinguished service in every imaginable calling. he had originally planned to enter the law. and went to deerfield as headmaster in 1902 for a year in order to save money to enter law school. but his stewardship of deerfield continued until his retirement in 1968. and in spirit it shall continue for as long as the academy endures. when frank boyden arrived at deerfield shortly after the turn of the century. the fate of the academy was much in doubt. with only 14 students and a meager endowment. franks task was immense. at first he drove around the countryside seeking to enroll students. but it was  long before deerfield was able to choose from among the top students in the country. as headmaster. frank boyden ruled with a warm heart. rather than an iron hand. for years his office was in the front corridor of the academys main building. and he was always available to his students to whom he provided constant and individual assistance. the story is told that when someone donated money for a new office. he declined to use the desk that faced the campus and instead used a chair near the dooras close as he could get to the corridor--so that he could see the students as they went by. and students never failed to come to him. whether in their triumphs or troubles. under his tutelage. there developed some of our nations finest leaders in the 20th century. while he remained a modest man. others would  let him escape the acclaim he deserved. his fellow educators recognized his brilliance and compassion. and 23 colleges and universities awarded him hoary degrees. but i am sure. to frank boyden. the greatest reward was the success and happiness of those whom he nurtured and guided to maturity. frank boydens legacy will endure for ages because it is embodied in the thoughts and deeds of thousands of deerfield graduates who are leaders in their fields of endeavor. to them. i offer my condolences for the loss of a mentor without parallel. to his widow. helen. and his two sons. john and theodore boyden. his daughter. elizabeth boyden. and his grandchildren. i offer my deepest sympathy in their loss of a wonderful husband. father. and grandfather. i ask unanimous consent that an article about frank boyden. published in the boston globe of april 26. 1972. be printed in the record.
. i am introducing today with senator kennedy a bill to provide for the establishment of the lowell historic canal district national cultural park. the creation of this urban national park in lowell. mass.. would represent an inative means of grappling with the problems  uncommon to cities which have a rich historical tradition. but a declining industrial base. an identical bill was introduced in the house by former representative f. bradford morse and has been cosponsored by each of the representatives in the massachusetts delegation. representative morse conducted a thorough study before submitting this proposal. working closely with lowell community leaders. these efforts were undertaken at a time when he knew that he would soon be leaving the congress to become the undersecretary general of the united nations. the energy which he devoted to this project is evidence of the deep concern and commitment which congressman morse had to the fifth congressional district which he served so well for 12 years. this legislation proposes that the historic mill section of lowell be included within the national park system. for more than two centuries the mill region of lowell has attracted individuals of disparate cultural background. and has formed a community with strong ecoic and social fiber. the industrial section of the city is tied together by more than 5 miles of canals. locks. and gatehouses that once powered the most productive textile mills in the united states. regrettably. however. many of these structures have deteriorated as the mills have closed and the ecoy of the area has changed. lowell. as a result. is grappling with the difficult task of constructing a new ecoic and cultural base from the remains of the past. this bill to establish a national cultural park represents a creative approach to the revival of the lowell ecoy which builds on. rather than disturbing. its rich tradition. the program includes proposals for the restoration and beautification of the canal system. the reactivation of one of the mills. complete with 18th century looms. techogical exhibits and museums. and the recreation of any early settlement and/or indian village. under the interior departments new program to bring parks "closer to the people." the national park service has annced criteria for the preservation of national cultural sites and ways of life. the proposed parks are judged on factors such as the significance of the park to the heritage of the united states. as well as the sites suitability to the preservation and interpretation of american history. an important element of the criteria is that it involves undue intrusion or disruption to the city. i firmly believe that the plan for the lowell cultural park fully meets these criteria. and would provide an exciting opportunity to develop an urban national park. i ask unanimous consent that an editorial from the lowell sun. supporting the proposal. be printed at this point in the record.
. i am gratified that the appropriations committee accepted my amendment to modify the appropriation for the department of transportation in order to permit the utilization of any type of passenger or baggage screening device. as passed by the house of representatives. the bill permitted solely the acquisition of active metal detection devices. there is question that the strongest possible steps must be taken immediately to cease the shocking wave of hijackings and other acts of violence on airplanes. the problem has clearly grown beyond the ability of the airlines to remedy on their own. what is needed is more government assistance to insure adequate security. the department of transportation reports that. as of june 5. 1972. there have been 147 hijacking attempts in the united states since the introduction of commercial aviation. however. 113 of these. or nearly 80 percent. have taken place during the last 3 years. and almost twothirds of them have been successful. secretary of transportation john volpe has annced that once the department receives funding he is prepared to move immediately to install magnetometers in commercial airports across the country. according to faa administrator john shaffer. 350 magnetometers are already installed at our nations airports. approval of this legislation should permit the installation of at least 800 more. these devices are used principally to detect metal objects containing iron which are carried on board by passengers. their installation will represent a significant step forward in reducing the incidents of air piracy. however. it will. in sense. eliminate the possibility of further air tragedy. for example. the magnetometer will  be able to detect dangerous devices which have iron content. among the weapons which have been used by hijackers that could  be detected by magnetometers are grenades. certain other explosives. razor blades. and tear gas. in addition. there is plan to use magnetometers for inspecting the contents of baggage. we need only recall the tragic slaughter at the tel aviv airport to remind ourselves that a madman can easily place his weapon in a suitcase and open fire when he arrives at the terminal. regrettably. we can prevent each and every hijacking. many of these incidents have been brazenly carried out by individuals without the use of any weapon. but i strongly believe that the government should be able to use every means necessary to prevent these tragic affairs. several federal agencies are already using xray screening devices to inspect the contents of goods in transit. the postal service and the customs bureau are among the agencies using these advanced systems for rapid inspection of parcels and baggage. a preliminary report by faa researchers indicates that these screening devices "can make a definite contribution" to airplane safety. i hope that the members of the house will agree to this amendment. and that the administration will explore every possible means of restoring safety and sanity to our nations air travel.
. i suggest that. under the interior departments program to bring the parks "closer to the people." the city of lowell more than meets the national park services criteria for the preservation of national cultural sites and ways of life. proposals are judged on factors such as the significance of the parks to the heritage of the united states. as well as the sites suitability to the preservation and interpretation of american history. and. most importantly. a proposed park should  cause undue intrusion or disruption to the city. the possibility of an urban national park is indeed exciting. last may. i read into the record an editorial from the lowell sun which captured the enthusiasm throughout lowell for this project. i share their enthusiasm and i hope the congress will bestow upon this great city the unique and challenging ho of developing an urban national park. i ask unanimous consent that the bill be printed in the record.
. few federal projects can boast such broad benefits at such a low cost. the corps of engineers deserves our praise for this excellent piece of work. all of us in the commonwealth are indebted to them for their ination in coming to grips with the terribly serious problem of flood control in the watershed area. the fact that their report was endorsed by the state. by the departments of interior. agriculture. and transportation. and by the environmental protection agency.  to mention the sierra club. the masachusetts audubon society. citizens advisory committee and the charles river watershed association speaks for itself. this project. 8 years in the making. unanimously approved by all involved. is  becoming a reality. both the commonwealth and the nation will be better for it.
i thank the senator. i thank the distinguished senator from michigan and the distinguished senator from minnesota . for never have either of them failed to take a stand on the moral issues of the day. i think that is important. that is why we are elected. i do  think we are elected merely to mouth the sentiments that we read in the polls that are taken. i believe we have responsibility to lead and to inform and to educate the public. i certainly do  think my senate seat is worth a compromise of my principles on any moral issue facing this nation. i would rather give up my senate seat than to compromise those principles. we thought that we did  have time to get into all the issues involved in the amendment  before the senate. we thought it best to appeal to the few senators who are here listening to this debatea very important debate. i should sayon the basis of constitutionality. legality. and morality. but i just want to discuss a matter that is still left in this amendmentmost of the objectionable matters are still left in this amendmentand that pertains-
. i have doubt that the bill we offer today will be the subject of further scrutiny. for instance the department of interior has been quite active in helping us devise a proper federal role in this matter. we welcome their efforts for they will doubt lead to further strengthening of our initiative. but. i believe that the bill which we introduce today sets forth the format by which we can best insure the nantucket sound islands preservation and protection from the kind of unchecked development which threatens so many of our nations scenic and historic islands. i look forward to its early enactment.
i have the greatest respect for the senator from utah. nevertheless. i am a little bit confused as to his reasoning. he said that we should go ahead with the r. & d. and yet we should do testing. the real nub of this issue is that the r. & d.. by itself. will be provocative and destabilizing because prudent soviet planners. once they perceive we are moving ahead with r. & d. on qualitative improvements that will give us an efficient and impressive counrtersilo capability. will have to assume we will deploy such a capability. thus. by r. & d. we will set in motion the processes that lead to an acceleration of the arms race and a lowering of the nuclear threshold. the soviet union will have added incentive to improve their accuracy and. more dangerously. to move toward a "launch on warning" triggering posture that will dramatically increase the risk of nuclear war. and. according to the logic i have heard here today. we should follow suit. what an unnecessary and costly error. i hope the senator from utah understands my arguments because. as the senator from new hampshire said earlier. the name of the game is protecting the survivability of our deterrent  threatening that of our adversary.
the chief problem is that the dam will  do the job it has been claimed that it will do. that is the whole reason for this amendment. i wish that there were more time to debate it. we had only 20 minutes. 10 minutes to a side. we are  getting what we are paying for in this dickeylincoln dam. and it would be a great mistake for us to build it. it will  give us employment. it will  get electricity at a cheap cost for the people of new england. and i think it is farcial to proceed with this illconceived. massive project. .
i hope the senator from florida will read the language of the eagleton amendment. if he is concerned about bureaucracy. the language of the eagleton amendment is as follows: sec. 205. federal officer or agency shall approve any financial assistance for the construction of any building in an area of a state unless that officer or agency determines that the building does or will meet the minimum standards promulgated pursuant to section 204 of this title. take an individual owner in an area which does  have uniform standards. that individual homeowner says: "but i meet the requirements. i have insulation. i qualify." that means that to be sure va or fha is going to have to go out and check each house. case by case. that would require inspectors. i believe that this amendment. itself. would lead to creation of a bureaucracy the likes of which we have never kn. if the senator from florida is concerned about bureaucracy. under the eagleton amendment there would be a far greater bureaucracy. i do  believe that the bill. as presently written. will create any further bureaucracy to administrate this particular legislation.
we are saying it differently. we are saying that the appropriations committee does have the authority and that before they approve it. there is valid. binding contract. that is the difference. we ought to iron out this disagreement before we go further. that is the whole problem. if there is control by the appropriations process essential. then both the senator from wisconsin and i would support your amendment. we both serve on the appropriations committee. as does the distinguished senator from florida. we think there should be control by the appropriations committee. we think that under section 208 we preserve that control and the senator says we do .
. the latest initiatives of the administration on the middle east have certainly comolicated an already complex situation. the question that recurs again and again upon a reading of the joint statement is why this particular step. the congress and the american people have a right to a detailed answer to this question. i fear we may have embarked upon a course of action fraught with danger.  only for our traditional ally in the midle eastisraelbut also for the arab countries and ourselves. the creation of excessive expectations in the arab world that can be fulfilled without the united states dishoing its values and commitments can only lead to arab disillusionment with the united. states. this. in turn. will increase the incentives for mischief from those in the middle east and elsewhere whose goals are far different than that of peaceful and productive relations between israel and her arab neighbors. the united states inevitably would be increasingly drawn into such a worsening situation. i do  defer to anyone in the desire for peace between israeli and arab. each has much to offer the other. but i am convinced that the only peace agreement that will last is one that they hammer out together. one imposed from without will  be able to withstand the inevitable frictions that will characterize the middle east situation for many years to come. the administration claims it is  seeking an imposed settlement. its latest actions raise serious questions as to the sincerity of its claim.
would be found in violation of the fifth amendment of the constitution. under cooper vs. aaron. 358 u.s. 1. a 1958 case. third. the severe limitation which the eagletonbiden language places on hews discretion will ultimately lead to more.  less. busing. for it will certainly lead to greater litigation and contention over the issue. and it will almost certainly precipitate more use of the courts. as the only remaining recourse to vindicate the rights of students trapped in stillsegregated communities and illequipped educational ghettos. . i urge my colleagues to join me in separating substance from procedure. i urge my colleagues to consider the dangers inherent in our rush to judgment and legislation without benefit of dispassionate consideration. and whatever your views on the substantive merits of the eagletonbiden amendment. i urge you to consider the dangerous precedent we are here establishing. by attaching a rider of this import on an appropriations measure. and by so sharply limiting agency discretion. i therefore ask my colleagues to support mv motion to strike section 209 from this bill. let those who wish fashion a piece of substantive legislation to accomplish these debated ends. submitting it to the appropriate senate bodies for study. and then to the senate collectively for deliberation and disposition.
is it the gentlemans understanding that the allocations of tin are exclusively for cans and other similar materials and that the manufacturing industry that uses tin for wire has been denied any allocation of that time.
i wish to refer to the sixth paragraph of the statement of the managers. where the following statement is made: it is intended that in the exercise oi the distribution and use controls under this legislation. fair and equitable allocations shall be made. the gentleman will recall that i appeared before the committee in connection with the difficulties of steelwire users of tin. and the chairman and the members of the committee were most courteous in their consideration of the problem facing that segment of industry. is my interpretation correct that the managers intended to indicate that fair and equitable allocations should apply to the users of tin in the steelwire industry.
. i want to speak in support of the amendment offered by the gentleman from massachusetts and to read for your information certain pertinent paragraphs of the engineering and mining journal for october 1949. referring to this particular bill. s. 2105. it says: government subsidization is obviously the antithesis and murderer of private enterprise. on what grounds. then. can the mining industry believe in the one and also accept the doubtful aid of the other. further on. it says: the bill is hastily written and contains too much of the imagination of the proposed administrators to represent a portion of the industry proper. finally it says: despite the changes which were written in the other body. s. 2105 still offers a threat rather than a benefit to the miners. it is a hastily and loosely drawn piece of legislation. it lacks the support even of the industry elements who would receive its subsidy. and its justification as in the national interest is doubtful where doubt should exist. in terms of the authority with which that particular publication speaks. it occurs to me that certainly the very least we could do is to write in the amendment offered by the gentleman from massachusetts.
 we can take constructive action  by adopting the amendment and the committee amendment as amended. i doubt if there could be a more convincing argument for home rule for the district than the confused situation existing in the district as to daylightsaving time. surely few would care to argue that the district commissioners would  have acted on this matter in due time. if they had had the authority to do so. i hope that all this may lead to an early opportunity to vote on homerule legislation. i urge our colleagues on the district committee to consider seriously the result of the vote today. irrespective of their views on home rule. and i k they are sincerely held. i am certain that they want to be fair.  only to the hundreds of thousands of americans living in the district and paying their share of the burden of heavy taxation. but also to their colleagues here who want an opportunity to express their convictions on home rule.
 said in his magnificent address in april. surely. the overwhelming majority of the american people want to do everything possible to further the efforts of their government toward achieving complete disarmament with safeguards to protect their security and that of all other nations and they realize that a great deal of the tremendous expenditures  flowing into armaments all over the world could be used for more constructive and essential purposes if we could only have an effective peace. i want to emphasize that the resolutions can possibly be properly construed as indicating any lack of effort on the part of this government  or in the past toward that end. rather. they seek to give added impetus to those efforts. which i think. is particularly appropriate at this time in view of the developments throughout the countries behind the iron curtain.
. 37 years ago today the valiant peoples of lithuania proclaimed their independence. within that period of time. they have twice been under the domination of ruthless invaders and even  they are struggling to throw off the cloak of tyranny imposed by the soviets. the indomitable spirit of this freedomloving country will continue to survive. and i am confident lithuania. together with the many other countries behind the iron curtain. will one day again live and work under her flag of freedom.
. the commonwealth of masgachusetts. the county and local governments as well as the american red cross and many other agencies and groups made magnificent contributions toward the relief of the suffering and the repair of the extensive damage. but it seemed obvious to me that remedial legislation to cover the possibility of any future disaster should be promptly considered at this session of congress and i am confident that the whole subject matter will receive the earliest possible consideration by the congressional committees concerned and by congress as a whole. one of the most immediate and useful projects which can be considered is the matter of an adequate floodcontrol system for the new england area. this has been the subject of study by the corps of engineers and the results will be presented as soon as possible. in the meantime. we do have the advantage of a comprehensive report after a survey of the new englandnew york region. this was undertaken under the flood control act of 1950public law  516. 81st congress. it consists of some 46 volumes. was completed by the new englandnew york interagency committee and submitted under date of march 15. 1955. among other recommendations. it proposes a comprehensive plan for the connecticut river basin consisting of local protection works and the construction of 21 additional flood control reservoirs to supplement the five such reservoirs already completed and in operation. one of these proposed reservoirs is kn as the littleville reservoir and would be located on the westfield river which is a tributary of the connecticut river. communities. utilities. and individuals in both massachusetts and connecticut in the region affected by the flow of water from the westfield river suffered substantial damage as a result of the floods of august and october 1955. at my request. the new england division of the united states corps of engineers furnished me with its estimate of the reduction of damages during these floods if the littleville project had been constructed and in operation at that time. their report to me is as follows: august 1955. along westfield river in massachusetts ----- $2.500. 000 october 1955. along westfield river at westfield. mass ------ 115. 000 total --------------------2.615.000 august 1955. along connecticut river below entrance of westfield river. in massachusetts_ october 1955. along connecticut river below entrance of west1.735.000 field river. in massachusetts.- 50. 000 total -------------------- 1.785.000 august 1955. along connecticut river in connecticut --------- 3.265.000 october 1955. along connecticut river in connecticut --------- 415.000 total -------------------- 3.680. 000 or. a total estimated reductionin massachusetts -------------- $4.400. 000 in connecticut ----------------3.680.000 total -------------------- 8. 080. 000 i have been advised that the estimated cost of this project at the 1955 price level is $5.500.000. when these two factors of a cost of $5.500.000 and an estimated loss of $8.080.000 in these floods alone are weighed. the urgency of this project is apparent beyond any question. a considerable amount of other pertinent data is available and will be presented to the proper congressional committees in connection with the consideration of this project. at this time. i have introduced a bill to authorize the appropriation of funds for the preparation of plans in order to construct this littleville reservoir. i believe that the basic facts which i am  submitting amply justify favorable action by the congressional committees and by congress at the earliest possible date during this session. i am glad to add that my colleague the gentleman from massachusetts . portions of whose district would be clearly benefited by the construction of this reservoir. plans to introduce. subsequently. a similar resolution and that he has supported effectively every effort to provide this realistic means of immediate relief to western massachusetts. i have also appreciated the generous and wholehearted support extended by the officers of the state and local governments in both massachusetts and connecticut. i urge immediate consideration of this resolution as a practical. reasonable. and constructive action on the part of congress. fully merited upon all the facts which have been developed. i am  including a copy of this resolution: h. r. 8132 a bill authorizing the preparation of detailed plans for the littleville reservoir on the middle branch of the westfield river in massachusetts be it enacted. etc.. that the appropriation of funds for the preparation of detailed plans for the littleville dam and reservoir on the middle branch of the westfield river in massachusetts. is hereby authorized. provided. that the work shall be carried out substantially in accordance with the plan set forth in the report of the new englandnew york interagency committee. dated march 15. 1955. and on file in the office of the chief of engineers. provided further. that in the preparation of the detailed plans hereby authorized. the chief of engineers is authorized and directed to make such modifications as he may deem warranted as a result of the hurricane floods of 1955.
that was my next question. then those who will be the conferees will stand by the house version. so that there may be question in the minds of my constituents who are concerned about it. may i address the same question and receive this double assurance. am i correct in understanding that the echo dam feature is out of the bill. as recommended by your committee and that the conferees. so far as the chairman can guarantee it to us. and i realize that it can be an absolute guaranty. will stand by the version as recommended by the committee eliminating that feature.
a part of these funds will contribute toward the construction of access roads. and the federal government will also contribute some. because they will have to relieve the congestion at the several bottlenecks at the entrances to each of the three principal bridges which lead into virginia.
i do  k about mr. churchills thought because i am  prepared to identify it as such. but i am prepared to say that there has been a natural trend. particularly strong during the last 20 years. since the last war. and up to this time. of the decentralization of some international problems. based upon improved activity and greater transportation and communication facilities. which. in a natural way. may very well lead to a partial solution of the great difficulty of attempting to handle the entire world through one organization. in that there lies great hope. and there certainly could be hing to conflict with that natural trend in any resolution we might adopt at this time which would enable the solution to adapt itself. as i am trying to argue. to conditions of the times. which may be somewhat different from what they have been at other times. that may very well be. certainly the pan american union will continue to exercise its functions. probably in central europe there might arise at some time a different type of problems. but with regionalized authority and an overall organization there may be a substantial guaranty of peace for years to come.
i should like fo say a word in support of this amendment. inasmuch as the chairman of the committee primarily involved has approved it. as a member of that committee i also approve of it. it seems to me that it is a perfectly sound and simple rule of practice. to the substance of which objection has beenraised by any of the senators who have discussed it. it seems to me that the committee to which this resolution refers is a good committee to take the lead in establishing this general practice. if the amendment were to be referred to the committee on rules for consideration. i believe their recommendation would be favorable. but that it would be difficult to get a meeting of the committee either to consider -it or to report it promptly. the proposal contained in this amendment is simple. and should recommend itself to the common sense of the senate. i. believe that the senator from new york . in accepting it. has done the thing that common sense dictates and i hope the amendment will be agreed to. and become a matter of general practice. i believe that this is the appropriate committee with which to start and this is a good time to act.
. therefore. on that first point. i wish clearly to bring out that. so far as there being need for a steam plant to firm the supply of power or to contribute firmness to the rates. the local company has offered and continues to offer to make firm any power which the bureau may sell to public agencies. and to do so at a cost greater than if such power were made firm by a government project steam plant. the second point: is there a need for the transmission line. here the testimony is clear. i summarize it. and then shall read it. the local company offers to take the power at the shasta dam and to deliver equivalent power at the other end of the system over its lines. of course allowing for line losses. without the necessity of building a new set of transmission lines by the government down through the territory which the company is already serving.
i think that that would readily lead into a situation where you put the whole machinery into operation 6f invoking a peaceful settlement before you get into a settlement by force. i quote in this connection from paragraph 4 of article 2 which says: all members shall refrain in their international relations from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any state. or in any other manner inconsistent with the purposes of th3 united nations. a nation will come close to getting into an international conflict if it enters upon one side or the other of a revolutionary conflict.
what i desire to inquire about is m very important point. perhaps the crux of the issue. in that it seems to me that if we take the course which i think would lead us into many uncertainties. the course recommended by. the senator. it could  be for any other reason than the one he urges. the question as to whether it. is in fact true that our present system has led us to become unduly subservient to pressure groups is a most important question. frankly. i do  believe it has. i do  wish in any way to be a cause of embarrassment to the senator from south dakota or to other proponents of the resolution. but every time i hear this argument urged. i like to inquire who are these groups and what decisions have been made erroneously under pressure from these groups. do they exist. or is it a vague fear which has substance in fact. so. if the senator will do so. i wish he would be quite specific. because whether we should take this action or  depends on the strength of the argument he makes on this point and upon the question of whether. in fact. it has a substantial basis.
the secretary of agriculture states that the administration supports this measure. i support it. as i am sure the greater majority of senators on both sides of the aisle do. this is  an easy question to decide. every time we aid countries behind the iron curtain there is some danger that we may. in a way. be strengthening the hold of the communists upon those countries. still. as the senator from vermont has. in his very simple but eloquent way pointed out. there is also the necessity of making it possible for those countries and their people to have some hope that eventually they may be able to loosen themselves and come out from under. i. for one. shall support the proposal to give the president of the united states a chance to use his discretion. only he can use it. because only he ks the details and the facts in any particular situation to offer this kind of help which. in my judgment. is urgently needed.
i join senators who have spoken. particularly the senator from wyoming in an expression of gratification for the work of the senator from tennessee in taking the lead in the movement about which he has spoken. i also join the senator from tennessee and my other colleagues in what they have said about the product of the atlantic convention. the leadership of christian herter and william clayton has been outstanding in this regard. as one of the sponsors of the resolution and one who had high hopes for it. i may say that the results up to this time have more than justified our expectations. i am deeply grateful to the senators who participated.
 from the general public among those in private life who are specially qualified by training and experience to contribute to the solution of problems of public administration or the functioning of legislative bodies. to my mind. that method of procedure would be far more effective. yesterday the senator from oregon -and i am glad to see him again in his seat. as he almost always is. being one of the most faithful members of this bodysuggested that a commission composed of outside members would .be a very valuable thing because it could c j287 hold the mirror up to us much more effectively. i agree. that is why. in part. i proposed that a commission be appointed to which 6 members of the 12member commission would be outsiders in private life. in addition to coming forth with sound recommendations because of a more objective look at this body and our sister body at the other end of the capitol. such a body composed of distinguished outsiders as well as distinguished members of the congress would so far as their recommendations were concerned. carry additional prestige which would be helpful in making effective whatever recommendations were then made. the rules committee. in its wisdom. decided  to accept the proposal. in which i was joined on at least one occasion in the past by the senator from pennsylvania. but recommended the resolution which the senator from oklahoma had proposed.  only to limit the inquiry to a committee of members of congress. but also sharply limiting the scope of the recommendations which that committee might make as a result of its inquiries. if we are  to take the best course. at least we should take the second best course. and  the least best course. and that is what the failure of the clarkcase amendment would lead us into doing. i do  see the senator from oklahoma in the chamber. i invite the attention of senators to the fact that in my bill. setting up a hoovertype commission for the study of congressional procedures and practices. i listed 12 matters to be studied and reported upon. i should like to present very briefly these matters. because for the most part i am afraid that they would be excluded from recommendations whether or  they might be considered by the committee in respect to the clarkcase amendment. one of those was the scheduling of measures for consideration and action. aher was the structure. staffing. and operation of congressional committees. the third was the workload of the congress and the committees. the fourth was congressional rules and floor proceduresobviously within the specific prohibition of the committees activities. so far as the committees recommendations are concerned. i may say to the senator from oklahoma that i am reading over the 12 items which appear on page 4 of the hearings which are included for specific consideration. or would have been by the bill i introduced for a hoovertype commission to investigate congressional practices and procedures. i have listed the first four of those. and suggested that. so far as i can see. under the terms ofthe resolution as it stands and before the adoption of the clarkcase amendment. the committee proposed under the senators resolution would  permit recommendations on these particular matters.
. with america embarked on a campaign to preserve its natural beauty. it is ironic that one of our scenic treasures should be in danger of serious damage or worse. yet this is the case with the grand canyon of the colorado. kn the world over for its spectacular beauty. if legislation. presently pending before the congress. is enacted. power dams would be constructed above and below the grand canyon national park on the colorado river. while there is some dispute over the exact impact of this project on the national park itself. it seems clear that the majestic scenery in the area of the dams. and indeed the living river. would be drastically altered. this is a very complex matter. involving the critical water needs of central arizona as well as the need to protect our diminishing natural resources. the pros and cons of the dispute were incisively presented in a recent article by william v. shan. a member of the editorial board of the new york times. i ask unanimous consent that this article be printed in the record.
 is pressing a campaign to preserve natural beauty. congress is being asked to approve a plan that would destroy a great part and radically change what remained of the grand canyon of the colorado. a canyon which t.r. described as absolutely unparalleled throughout the rest of the world. under the pending proposal. the colorado river would be dammed at points thmarble gorgeand possibly southbridge canyo the grand canyon national park and national monument. the length of the grand canyon national monument and 13 miles of the national park would be flooded behind bridge canyon dam. the marble gorge dam would create a lake 300 feet deep behind it and would inundate 50 miles of the upper grand canyon. these dams would be constructed for the ultimate purpose of bringing water into arid central arizona. the dams themselves will  produce a drop of water for that region. or for any other region. rather. electricity to be generated by the impounded water will be sold at a profit to help pay for diverting water from somewhere else into the phoenixtucson area. in other words. the dams are a financing gimmick aptly described by the bureau of reclamation as "cash registers." to provide this financing device. the grand canyon would be sacrificed. for myselfand i believe most americans feel the same wayi would rather pay the additional taxes that would be required to fund the water diversion project than to sell what i regard as the birthright of our people for a mess of pottage. moreover. there is already serious doubt that the project will be as profitable financially as its proponents claim. if that should turn out to be the case. we will end up paying for much of it anyway through subsidies to make up the loss. despite what many believe. the damage caused by the dams would  be localized. this is because the 280milelong canyon is a physical entity. the creation of a freeflowing river. with the installation of two dams. or even one. this natural process would be seriously impaired. perhaps even halted. as some conservationists have put it. a living laboratory of stream erosion would be turned into a static museum piece. there are many strong reasons for opposing the shackling of the colorado with additional dams. foremost among these. of course. is the irreparable damage to a national treasure. experts in conservation point out that the dams would actually waste water through evaporation and seepage in a watershort region. that techogical advances in power generation may offer. in a few years. cheaper power than the dams would ever produce. and that permission to invade one national park undoubtedly would be used as a precedent for invading others. over and beyond all the techogical. ecoic. and legal reasons for opposing the dams is the unassailable fact that a unique wonder of nature would be destroyed for all time. has  the time come to distinguish between an exploitable natural resource and a resource immune from exploitation. the grand canyon shouldit mustfall into the latter category. for unless we can make the canyon forever inviolable. how can we hope to protect any of our parks. beaches. wildlife refuges. and the like. the natural beauty of our land. in fact our whole environment. is an irreplaceable asset. if we want to preserve it. we must bend ourselves to the task. mindful of the disciplines that may be required. congress. of course. has recognized that water supply and distribution is a national.  merely a local or state problem. just this year the senate passed a bill creating a national water commission which would make a 5year study of the nations water problems. but we can meet this problem. as we can meet all of our problems. without despoiling our other natural resources. in the case of the grand canyon of the colorado. theodore roosevelt told the nation how to treat this natural phee and congress should follow his advice: "what you can do is to keep it for your children. your childrens children. and for all who come after you. as one of the great sights which every american if he can travel at all should see. we have gotten past the stage. my fellow citizens. when we are to be pardoned if we treat any part of our country as something to be skinned for two or three years for the use of the present generation. whether it is the forest. the water. the scenery. whatever it is. handle it so that your childrens children will get the benefit of it." and i repeat t.r.s words: leave it as it is. you can improve on it. the ages have been at work on it. and man can only mar it."
. at the same time. a most interesting editorial from the june 22 editions of the rocky mountain news. denver. colo.. has come to my attention. this editorial provides a number of sound reasons for opposing the proposed grand canyon dams and i ask unanimous consent that it. too. be placed in the record.
. the grand canyon of the colorado has been called the grand canyon of arizona. since it is located there. it has been called. as fittingly. the "grand canyon of the urban east." since we residents of the megalopolis draw from its assurance that the natural world still exists with its capacity to awe and instruct us. yet it is even more than this. it is quite probably the most famous natural attraction on our planet. and it has been called the most revealing geological display on earth. many people who k the grand canyon are surprised to learn that less than onethird of it is included within the existing grand canyon national park. and less than half of it is within the park and the adjacent national monument. outside the arbitrarily drawn boundaries of the park and monument are more than 50 miles of the upper canyon. including marble gorge. and nearly 100 miles of the lower canyon. including lower granite gorge. yet. even within the existing park and national monument. natural values they were designed to protect would be destroyed by hydroelectric dam and reservoir projects proposed for marble gorge and for bridge canyon. downstream from the national park. in legislation considered last year by the house. these dams were to have been built as part of the central arizona project. a water development program for the phoenix and tucson areas. which is the subject of the bill the senate is considering today. happily. dams in the grand canyon are included inthe cap bill  before the senate. but unfortunately there .is assurance there will . be a reneiked push for them. indeed. there is ample indication that there will be. thus. until all of the grand canyon is reliably protected. all of it will remain in jeopardy. such protection is the object of my bill. s. 1686. which would extend the park to include all 280 miles of the grand canyon. from lee ferry to grand wash cliffs. s. 1004 does  provide the protection i believe essential. i should like. therefore. to address some questions on this point to the senator from washington. who has worked so hard and so well on -this legislation. i ask these questions in a spirit of cooperation. so that we can move from this bill to speedy protection of all of the grand canyon. first. with regard to section 13 of the bill. do i understand correctly that its prohibition against building federal dams applies to an area extending from the western boundary of grand canyon national park to that point on the colorado river at which hoover dam itself is located.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the following documents: an article entitled "sonic booms threatening indian cliff dwellings in arizona national parks." published in the new york times of july 5. 1968. a letter dated february 23. 1967. from the assistant director of the national park service. a resolution adopted by the wilderness society and reported in their magazine of the fall of 1967. an article entitled "the boom over the sea." published in the new york times of june 17. 1967. written by bo lundberg. an article entitled "ban the boom." published in the washington star of july 2. 1968. an equally splendid editorial published in my home state newspaper. the elizabeth daily journal of june 25. 1968. entitled "here comes the boom". an article entitled "concern over sonic booms." published in the weekly news spotlight of june 10. 1968. an article written by john e. gibson. dean of engineering of oakland university in michigan. printed in the record on july 22. 1966.
. for the first time in its long and distinguished history the american legion has elected a resident of the state of new jersey as its national commander. william c. doyle. of vineland. n.j.. was elected to that office by the delegates to the 50th national convention of the american legion on september 12. 1968. at new orleans. la. i have kn bill doyle for many years and k the qualities of leadership he possesses. by every standard of measurement he is qualified to lead this great veterans organization and i am proud that this ho has come to him and to my state. it is a tribute to the membership of the american legion that they recognized in this fine citizen the qualities of character and leadership which are so urgently needed in these trying times. with bill doyle as commander the american legion can look forward to a year of dedicated service and added achievement. in his acceptance speech after his election he discussed some of the current problems facing this nation and pledged the resources of the american legion toward their solution. i ask unanimous consent that national commander doyles acceptance speech. together with his biography. be printed in the record.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to create the sandy hook national seashore recreation area. sandy hook. a peninsula bounded by the atlantic ocean on one side and sandy hook bay on the other. consists of 1.634 acres. from 1846 until approximately 7 years ago the entire complex was a military reservation kn as fort hancock. however. in early 1962 it was determined that the entire acreage was longer needed for military purposes and the department of the army leased 745 acres to the state of new jersey for a recreation area. this became kn as the sandy hook state park. i was. of course. happy to support and work for the establishment of this state park. in january 1967. the department of defense annced that it would turn approximately 1.200 acres of land at sandy hook. including 745 acres that comprise the present state park. over to the general services adminsitration for disposal. a recent check with the department indicates that it anticipates reporting the approximately 1.200 acres as surplus later than august of this year. enactment of my bill will authorize the department of the interior to take possession of this acreage. operate and maintain it for recreational purposes. and place in new jersey its first national seashore recreation area. the new york metropolitan region will be completely urbanized within 30 to 40 years. even . open space and recreation facilities fall far short of the needs of the regions population. the little open space that is left is truly a "precious little." the new york metropolitan regional council and the regional plan association assessed the need for open space in a recent report. "the race for open space." the fourth and final report of their park. recreation. and open space project. this report recommended that the present 189.000 acres of public parks in the metropolitan region be expanded to 736.000 and that the total open space be expanded from 600 square miles to 1.700 square miles. the report also suggested criteria for choosing lands to be acquired. pointing out that swimming and beach use rank first in public preference in recreation. picnicking is second. and walking and nature study third. ocean frontage within the metropolitan region totals 150 miles. of which 71 miles are suitable for mass recreation and conservation. most of this frontage lies in new york state. and is  easily available to the people of thern new jersey. the western part of the regions suitable ocean frontage lies mainly in monmouth county. n.j. of the countys 27.2 miles of recreation frontage. 8.8 miles are held privately and 6.7 miles are held by the military. the remaining 11.7 miles are publicly owned and. for the most part. are either already fully used or are unusable because of pollution. thus. sandy hook is the sole practicable potential public recreation area left to serve the people of urban th jersey. in addition. its colorful history and interesting geological and natural features give it potential for a varied recreational experience  found elsewhere in the region west of the hudson. unlike the establishment of the cape cod national seashore. mass.. as part of the national park system. inclusion of sandy hook in the national park system will  require appropriation of millions of dollars to acquire privately owned lands. the land at sandy hook is already owned by the federal government. the present state park is one of the most popular recreation areas along the new jersey coastproviding swimming. nature walks. sunbathing. and some of the best fishing around. it is so popular that on many weekends during the summer months the gates to the park must be closed as early as 10:30 in the morning. depriving thousands of wouldbe visitors of its use. as the report. "sandy hook. a study of alternatives." prepared by the national park service and the bureau of outdoor recreation. points out: sandy hooks recreation resources are... outstanding and should be preserved. its 6 miles of uninterrupted atlantic oceanfront and wide sand beaches provide a maximum opportunity for developing mass wateroriented recreation. these beaches. imaginatively planned. will provide varied and vitally needed wateroriented recreation for the massive urban population in the western half of the region. even though swimming and sunbathing will dominate their use. they will also be ideal for hiking. beachcombing. and some of the best surf fishing in the state. inland from the beaches a series of relatively unaltered dunes. interspersed with fresh and salt water marshes. plus 712 miles of bay shoreline will provide the opportunity for supporting activities. such as hiking and nature study. primarily the value of the natural resource is educational. in that the student or visitor is afforded a favorable field for the study of plant succession. since i introduced this bill in the 89th congress. i am glad to report that the advisory board on national parks. historic sites. buildings. and monuments at its 59th meeting endorsed the proposal to establish the sandy hook national seashore as a unit of the national park system. and on january 15 of this year then secretary of the interior. stewart l. udall. stated that he endorses enactment of legislation to establish a national seashore at sandy hook. it is my strong hope that the senate interior and insular affairs committee will hold prompt hearings on my bill so that the full senate will have an early opportunity to pass the legislation. the use of sandy hook for any purpose other than a recreation area would be unconscionable. for it is a national heritage and should remain in public possession.
. i second everything that has been said by the senator. beyond commending the senator from oregon for his leadership in this effort. i point out. again seconding what has been said. that the moderate tone of the report and of the presentations. i think. greatly strengthens their persuasiveness and lead. if i might say so. to a much more useful debate than often occurs on matters of this kind. in this connection. the responses of the senator from mississippi. the chairman of the committee. and the senator from arizona. an active member on our side of the aisle in opposition to some of the suggestions we have been making. but  to all of them. have been in the same vein. and the quiet and considerate effort that has been made by all who have participated actively in this debate will. in my judgment. lead to the right decisions being made on the senate floor for our country as a whole. it is a privilege for the senator from new jersey to be associated with those who. like the senator from oregon. are proponents of all or the major portion of the amendments and with those who. like the senator from arizona. are in opposition.
surely we will always want their advice. and rely heavily upon it. but the senator has correctly. i think. come to the real point of contention here. and that is. how heavily we shall rely upon it. and how much we shall all the time.  every year. but from time to timego out and seek our own expertise. in addition to the advice that we get from this terribly important. terribly good institution that we have established. as the senator suggests. . in this mornings washington post an editorial supporting the position of the senator from minnesota and me appeared as the lead editorial. i ask unanimous consent that the editorial entitled "gunboat incident on the hill." published in the washington post of friday. september 12. 1969. be printed in the record at this point.
. the senator from minnesota has already accurately and succinctly described the purpose for which we offered our original amendment. and the reason why we would modify it to clear away any of the objections. several of which have been held by people seriously concerned that congress should reassert its power over foreign policy and broad military spending. to take away from that issue any question that some people. favoring that. had about the wisdom of constructing this second carrier. on which contracts to the extent of some $133 million for long lead items had already been let. in order to eliminate that and to raise into sharp and single focus the question we are really concerned about. we have sought to make this amendment. apparently the opponents of our amendment. because they wanted to have the question confused and wanted to have it appear that those who opposed stopping this single carrier were opposed to the reassertion by congress of its basic constitutional authority. refused to allow us the mal right of senators to make this amendment to our own amendment. and it is for that reason. and that reason alone. that we have pressed this matter and  have obtained. through the presiding officer from the parliamentarian. a ruling that we have the right to offer and have voted on first. at the conclusion of the time fixed. the amended amendment.
. the question has been asked: what should a complete grand canyon national park include. jeffrey ingram. former southwest representative of the sierra club and a man thoroughly familiar with the grand canyon. has sought to answer the question in a paper recently brought to my attention. it is a most perceptive and compelling statement and i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record after my remarks. i also ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the record.
i thank the senator. and i thank him for taking the lead in this matter. because we can  say what we otherwise seldom have a chance to say about a man who has added so much to the richness of life in the senate and in our committee. he makes service for all of us on the committee a delight. it is so nice to be able to say something and to be understood by a man whose intellect is just as good as your own. if  twice as good as your own. without having to explain something 10 times. just because he has contributed so much to our esthetic pleasure. i want to pay this tribute. all kinds of qualities go with him. he has a touch of impatience once in a while. which he keeps within tolerable bounds.  strict bounds. that adds spice to his leadership. he is impatient with the excesses of verbosity to which we are all inclined. seriously. and all i have said is serious. his leadership of this committee is a little offbeat and provides that kind of stimulation to the thinking of this body on questions that certainly equal. and perhaps exceed. all others in importance at this time. any contribution any of us have made will likely prove twice as important and twice as significant because he has helped us. because he has led us. has prodded us. and has encouraged us. i want to thank him. . through you. for what he has meant to me personally as well as all those who serve under him.
i am glad that the senator from kansas took my interposition seriously egh to engage in this colloquy. because i have tried to come to the nub of this matter in my remarks. as i said in my remarks. i approve thoroughly of what the president has done in changing the course of the war. president johnsons policy was to raise the ante. president nixon recognized the fallacy of this. the great wrong in it. and changed the course of the war. and i think history will show that it was probably his greatest contribution as president of the united states. i applaud thi.. where i differ with him. as i point outand precisely the point of my difference with himis that he has said that the continuation of the withdrawal of our troops must depend upon a corresponding increase in the south vietnamese ability to defend themselves. this places the initiative on the south vietnamese. it gives it to them instead of to us. so long as. for example. under president johnson we were doing the bulk of the fighting. the great bulk of the fighting. and were putting billions of dollars into their ecoy just to keep them aliveand literally hundreds of south vietnamese were getting rich in the process. while our men were dyingthey never would make any effort to change the situation. i must say that this problem was compounded by the failure of our military to the south vietnamese at that time. i thoroughly agree with secretary lairds appraisal when he came back after his first trip abroad. after his appointment. and said that he was appalled at the condition of the socalled military forces in south vietnam. much has been done in the right direction. but much has  been done. the time we are looking forward to  is that when the completion of the withdrawal of 150.000 troops. which the president has scheduled. has taken place and the condition that we will face at that time. it is my sincere judgment that if we say we are going so long as they improvebut do  fix a definite. final datethey will never make the final hard decisions which will make them capable of defending themselves. whether it is  or in 6.000 years. that is why i think the fixing of a definite date is important. perhaps the amendments date is too far in the future. perhaps the president can get us out safely and without leaving chaos in our wake before that time. if so. hing in the amendment prevents that. so the flexibility of shortening the process still exists. if. on the other hand. the time period is too short. then the president can come to congress and to the country and get an extension for whatever time is reasonable. but within the context that we are  going to continue there indefinitely. as many proncements from south vietnam suggest we may have to. unless the south vietnamese change their thinkingand i do  think they have changed itwe may have to be there indefinitely. with the kind of support that will keep us involved and that will prevent them from taking the final steps necessary to develop an independent nation. it may be that inevitably there will be a contest in southeast asia after we leave. we can prevent that. i think it is very possible that there will be some sort of internal wars going on. what i am concerned about is that hing that we have done. or do. should lead to making those wars more difficult. more horrible than they otherwise would have been. we have taken on a responsibility. i am  one of those who say that we can just pull out. we did take on a responsibility for the lives of millions of people in that part of the world. and many thousands of american men have lost their lives in carrying out this countrys mission. and i ho them for that.
. 4 years ago. when i first introduced legislation to expand grand canyon national park. the principal threat to the park was that it would be marred by the construction of giant dams in connection with a water project for central arizona. while there are still some proponents of dam construction in the grand canyon. the threat has eased. because congress found a way to provide water to central arizona without scarring the truly unique wonder of nature which the grand canyon represents. grand canyon was preserved from the dams largely. because of its popularity among tourists from all sections of the country. but that same popularity today represents a threat to the park. the present park area is in danger of being damaged by an overabundance of tourists. for example. the number of persons who took boat trips through the canyon increased from 547 in 1965 to 9.300 in 1970. there have been proportionate increases in the back country use and for the first time the national park service has found it necessary to limit the number of persons on certain trails during peak periods to prevent gross overcrowding. to meet this problem. i am reintroducing my bill to approximately triple the size of the present park and to bring administration of the canyon under a more unified management. administration of the canyon is  divided among five units of the national park system a national forest. the bureau of land management. three indian reservations. and the state of arizona. my bill would protect the important side canyons and plateau areas as well as the main gorge and would permit the whole canyon area to be managed on an intelligible and coordinated basis. specifically. the bill i introduce today includes the following: first. the main stream of the colorado river as it flows through the canyonincluding all potential dam sites in marble gorge and the lower granite gorgefrom lees ferry to grand wash cliffs. second. the major side canyons: paria. kanab. navasu. whitmore. and parashant. third. the significant sections of the th rim plateaus: kaibab. uinkarets. and shivwits. fourth. toroweap valley. one of the most remarkable approaches to the canyon rim. in an area of interesting volcanic remnants. my bill will expand the national park from its present 673.575 acres to one consisting of 2.14 million acres. the extended park also will include the lands which comprise both the grand canyon and the marble canyon national monuments. which together total over 200.000 acres. all but 90.000 acres of the land to be included in the expanded park are currently owned by the federal government. the 50.000 acres of stateowned land included in the park could be acquired by purchase. donation. or exchange. my bill expressly provides that they  be acquired by condemnation. under the provisions of the bill. the 40.000 acres of privately owned land included in the park boundaries would become federal land as soon as the bill becomes law and owners would be reimbursed at thenprevailing prices. this would prevent the artificial ballooning of land prices that has plagued federal acquisition of parkland in the past. since much of the area is wild. my bill includes a study to determine whether any portions of the park should be recommended for inclusion in the national wilderness system. my bill would also repeal any permission for reclamation projects within the national park. the bill provides that lands of the havasupal. hualapai. or navajo tribes will be taken for the expanded park. in the past i have quoted the remark made more than 30 years ago by j. b. priestley thatevery member or officer of the federal government ought to remind himself. with triumphant pride. that he is on the staff of the grand canyon. as "staff members." we have protected the grand canyon from dams.  we must move on to discharge the remainder of our responsibility by enlarging the park and strengthening its management so that it will be able- to withstand the burdens of its own popularity. by mr. magnuson (for himself and mr. allott):
s council on environmental quality. ceq. ceq presently is looking into the environmental impact of three projects planned *for the tocks island region which embraces portions of new jersey. pennsylvania. and new york bordering the delaware river. one of the three projects is the national recreation area. authorized by congress in 1965. the others are the tocks island dam and reservoir. a congressionally authorized facility which will be almost completely surrounded by the recreation area. and a pumped storage hydroelectric project which is to be built by private utilities in conjunction with the dam and reservoir. the projects. particularly the dam and reservoir and the pumped storage facility. have stirred considerable opposition because of concern about their affect on the environment of the delaware valley. as a result. plans to begin the construction of the dam and reservoir have been delayed while the environmental effects of the various projects are carefully assessed. ceq has taken the lead in this most necessary effort. as a part of its evaluation. ceq asked the department of the interior to explore the viability of a national recreation area without the tocks island dam. in its study. the national park service posed the following question: without a big reservoir. would a national recreation area still be feasible. useful. appropriate. the park service answer: definitely. yes. * * * the park service study then goes on to describe the types of recreation that would be available in such a facility. for example. there would be emphasis on caing and rowing. which the study describes as "more subdued forms of boating." fishing would be on streams and ponds as opposed to the laketype fishing that would be provided by a reservoir. there would be plenty of capacity for swimming. the study says. the park service study is most interesting and informative. i am certain it will receive careful attention from ceq as that agency carries out its evaluation of the tocks island projects. previously. other documents pertaining to the evaluation of these projects have been placed in the congressional record. i .believe it essential that the public record of this matter be as complete as possible. therefore. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the park services study be printed in the record. i also ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the philadelphia inquirer article. the text of the interior departments comment in releasing the park service study. and the text of a ceq letter to me explaining the environmental evaluation process that has been agreed to by the agencies involved in the tocks island projects.
i appreciate that suggestion and also the spirit in which it is offered. i am afraid that it would lead to a very niggardly result. it seems to me if we take $1 million and divide it into three parts. we are  going to have very much for serious research into an alternate means of dumping. which i think. frankly. ought to include a pilot plant or two. so we could make an allout effort along this line. would the senator give me his thinking about that. we have got to find out how these things work and we can do it on an experimental. basis except with the help of the federal government.
s council on environmental quality. with regard to the proposed tocks island dam and reservoir project. i ask unanimous consent that this letter. along with the text of letters from two federal agencies relative to the project. be printed in the record.
. the latest count by the federal government tells us that at least 400.000 children are poisoned by lead each year. the number may be higher. because only a few of those poisoned are ever treated by physicians. the most recent statistics reveal that less than onehalf of 1 percentor about 16.000 children are actually treated. if a child is properly diaged before the onset of serious ill effects. he can be helped with potent chemical compounds. unfortunately. most cases are  seen until it is too late. in such cases. death can result or. if the child survives. he may be left with mental retardation. convulsive disorders. cerebral palsy. or blindness. and if the child is  killed or mentally retarded. he may still suffer egh brain damage to cause behavior problems. and make him slow in school. while we do  k all the sources of dangerous lead. we have identified certain significant hazards such as leadbased paint. gasoline. and old lead water pipes. we also k that most of the dangerous lead concentrations are in urban areas. from available evidence. it is believed that the city of newark. n.j.. is one of the worst environments in the nation from the point of view of the imminent dangers of lead. children in newark and other urban complexes are exposed to high concentrations of lead and there is way of king how many are close to the safety threshold where additional lead concentration may prove dangerous. that is why i am deeply distressed to learn that certain products available to consumers in urban areas pose a threat in an already precarious environmental situation. one product is toothpaste. most toothpaste is packaged in metallic containersand some toothpaste tubes contain lead. the amount varies depending on the manufacturer. but a few brands have been found with lead as high as 5 percent in the package. apparently. the lead gets into the toothpaste and consequently into the bodies of those who use the product. the amount of ingestion will depend on how the product is used. how much lead is in the container. and how old the container may be. aher product that presents a hazard in urban areas is canned evaporated milk. high lead concentrations have been found in evaporated milk and the food and drug administration has proof. i am informed. that the lead comes from the cans in which the milk is preserved. i am advised that in both cases the respective manufacturers are attempting to find alternative containers for their products. in the case of one toothpaste product. the manufacturer has already converted to aher packing material. and i understand some progress is being made in the milk industry. etheless. while these efforts are eworthy and in the interests of the american consumer. it does  solve the problem that is still posed by products remaining on the shelves of grocery stores. these may remain available for 3 or 6 months. or perhaps longer. i am told that the danger for most consumers is slight. however. the same can be said for the urban child. additional lead exposure for a city child may make the differenceand this is especially so when the diet of an infant is based largely on evaporated milk. we do k that it is the youngest children who eat paint chips that contain high lead concentrations in the inner city. dangerous products containing lead must be withdrawn from the urban marketplace as a minimum first stepand i have urged the food and drug administration to take this action. the removal of products containing high lead levels can be accomplished quickly and i am sure that manufacturers. recognizing the dangers. will want to cooperate in this endeavor.
 before this congress adjourns. and once the bill becomes law and the necessary additional appropriations are made. there should be delay in completing the acquisition of the remaining 15.542 acres of the recreation area. in this regard. it will be up to the army corps of engineers promptly to buy the land. the corps was given this role because it also is buying land for the tocks island dam and reservoir project. which is adjacent to the national recreation area. by having the corps buy the land for both projects. it is properly felt that the costs to the government can be held down. however. the two projects are separate. they are  interdependent. the recreation area may proceed to completion even if the dam and reservoir. as presently is the case. are delayed. this interdependence. if i may call it that. was spelled out in an exchange of letters i had with the department of the interior earlier this year. the essence of the interior departments advice to me is that completion of the park is legally permissible. the department strongly suggests cxvtii2282--part 27 that the park without the dam and reservoir would involve a more appropriate use of the natural resources of the area for recreational purposes than it would if the dam and reservoir were built. with this i warmly agree. i ask unanimous consent that the full text of my exchange of letters with the interior department be printed in the record.
 theodore roosevelt urged that it be left as it is. since then portions of the canyon have been set aside in a national grand canyon park and two national monuments. together. however. they include less than half of the canyon. in my view all of the canyon. with the exception of the indian reservations. should be included in the national park and i introduced a bill to so provide. the interior committee has  reported out s. 1296 introduced by senator goldwater. i am glad to e that in the course of committee consideration the senator from arizona amended his bill to expand the boundaries of the park beyond those he originally proposed. while i continue to believe the canyon should be afforded the more comprehensive protection contained in my own bill. the pending measure is a step forward in the preservation of an irreplaceable scenic and recreational resource and i shall vote for it.
. today i am introducing legislation to add 1.39 acres to the edison national historic site at west orange. n.j. while i recognize that little time for action remains in the 93d congress. i am offering this legislation at this time because the tract is  for sale and it may be too late to act in the next congress. the land can be obtained for $75.000 and the expenditure is authorized by my bill. the edison national historic site is made up of the home and laboratories where thomas alva edison lived and worked for 44 years and is comprised of approximately 20 acresmost of which were acquired by donation. yearly. thousands of persons visit this site and currently they are taken on guided tours to certain of the historic buildings. eventually. it is planned to construct a visitors center on this tract. such a center will further open the historic structures to visitors by providing alternate work space for the administrative staff which  uses space in the historic buildings themselves. in addition. future construction plans call for an improved storage vault and space for certain documents. models. and experiments which. the park service reports. are  stored in closets and other rooms. the park service tells me that the addition of this 1.39 acres of land will  only improve visitor access. but will add to the overall appearance of the historic site. as i have said. the owner of the property. the west orange redevelopment authority. fully intends to dispose of the property and the park service tells me that allowing the acreage to be sold for development purposes would effectively destroy its future plans for improving the edison historic site. i hope that this matter can be handled expeditiously and completely by the time of adjournment. by mr. taft:
. today i am introducing legislation to add 1.39 acres to the edison national historic site at west orange. n.j. the edison national historic site is made up of the home and laboratories where thomas alva edison lived and worked for 44 years and is comprised of 20 acresmost of which were acquired by donations. addition of 1.39 acres will improve visitor access and enhance the overall appearance of the edison historic site. according to information supplied to me by the park service. i am informed that the acreage is available and can be obtained for $75.000 which is authorized by my bill. by mr. mcgovern:
senators roth. buckley. biden. javits. and schweiker have joined me in sponsoring this legislation which will deauthorize the tocks island dam and reservoir project. also kn as the tocks island lake project. congress authorized the tocks island project in october 1962. in an effort to meet flood control and water supply problems of the area. the project contemplated a 160foot high dam that would create a 37mile. 12.000acre lake. in 1965. congress authorized creation of a 60.000acre recreation area. kn as the delaware water gap national recreation area. surrounding the reservoir. over the years. questions arose about the environmental impact of impounding the free flowing waters of the delaware river and about the ability of the proposed project to meet its stated objectives. as a result. congress in 1974 authorized an impartial. comprehensive analysis of the dam and reservoir project. including a study of alternative means of meeting the objectives of the project. shortly after this congressionally directed study was completed. the govers of the four states bordering the delaware river. acting on the basis of the studys findings. recommened on july 31. 1975. that further funds be appropriated by congress for construction of the dam and reservoir. the army corps of engineers. which is authorized to build the project. subsequently recommended deauthorization. the govers. acting through their membership in the delaware river basin commission. did. however. recommend that congress continue to appropriate funds to complete land acquisition in the project area. in keeping with this latter recommendation. our bill proposes that all land already acquired be transferred to the department of the interior for administration as part of the recreation area and that the department of the interior be given jurisdiction to complete acquisition of lands within the project areas. while the study of the project was underway. congress halted land acquisition in the dam and reservoir area. as a result. landowners who had agreed to sell their land to the government. have been unable to complete those transactions and have  been paid for their land by the government. our bill recognizes this fact by establishing a list of priorities under which land acquisition will take place in the future. giving first priority to those situations where proceedings have been started but  completed. because of the lack of federal funds. other priorities in the bill are: acquisition of lands of owners who would suffer a hardship if acquisition of their lands were delayed. acquisition of lands on which there is an imminent danger of development that would be inconsistent with a national recreation area. acquisition of lands of owners who are willing to sell if they are able to retain socalled life rights to the property. acquisition of scenic easements when such easements are sufficient to carry out the purposes of a national recreation area. acquisition of lands necessary to preserve the integrity of a national recreation area. the final section of the bill authorizes the secretary of the interior to relocate u.s. highway 209 to the western side of the recreation area in the manner in which the highway was to be relocated by the secretary of the army as part of the dam and reservoir project. the delaware water gap abounds in wildlife. including black bear. deer. trout. and foxes. it is a preserve of natural and historic scenery  usually associated with the industrial areas of thern new jerseynew york and pennsylvania. it is conveniently accessible from areas which have one of the most intensive needs for recreational space in the nation. land acquisition for the recreation area is more than 75 percent completed. it is my hope that through this legislation we can complete the land acquisition and preserve for the nation an opportunity for recreation in an area where the delaware river has cut a ch through the 1.200foot high kitatinny range. i ask unanimous consent that a copy of our bill be printed in full at this point in the record.
. i am happy to join with senator williams in offering an amendment that would authorize $12 million to begin work on solving flood control problems of the passaic river basin in our state of new jersey. flooding of a river basin is a natural pheena which can be beneficial in undeveloped areas. but it can beand usually isa disaster in densely inhabited areas. the passaic river basin is a 787squaremile area that is one of the most densely populated watersheds in this country. industrial. commercial. and residential development have destroyed much of the natural detention characteristics of the basin. in the lower basin in particular it is too late to consider restoration of these detention characteristics. in the middle and upper basins. however. wise forethought by some local governments has preserved the option of minimizing flood damage without dams and levees. it is the intent of the sponsors of this amendment that urgently needed work be started on flood control in the passaic river basin while efforts are begun to examine alternatives to dams and levees as flood control measures in parts of the basin. fortunately. the congress. in the water resources development act of 1974. adopted a twostep authorization procedure that is especially applicable to the situation we face in the passaic .river basin. it is the intent of the sponsors of this amendment that the requirements and provisions of this twostep approach. as set forth in senate report 93615 which accompanied s. 2798. shall apply in the phase i study of the passaic river basin project. it also is the intent of the sponsors of the amendment that the corps of engineers will reformulate the plan for water management and flood control for the entire passaic river basin. recommendations shall be made to the congress as soon as they are complete. implementation of interim solution consistent with public law 92500 and the national environmental policy act. as amended. shall begin as soon as feasible and shall  await completion of phase i design memorandum. further. it is the intent of the sponsors of the amendment that a new environmental impact statement will be developed for the reformulated plan and that this impact statement will be the subject of public hearings and submitted to the council on environmental quality before it becomes final. in reformulating the plan for water management and flood control. the corps of engineers shall survey and consider only the following alternatives or any combination thereof: first. a full range of structural flood control alternatives to include land acquisition. flood plain mapping. flood proofing. developing early warning systems. and relocation of buildings. second. a tunnel diversion plan. third. a system of tunnels addressing the needs of the entire basin. fourth. plans that combine local protection works where locally acceptable and structural solutions including improvements to stream carrying capacity in accordance with different needs in the lower basin and in the central basin. fifth. evaluation of fulfilling water supply objectives together with flood control. sixth. aquifer recharge and underground storage. seventh. reservoir management in the headwaters. further. it is the intent of the sponsors of the amendment that there will be early and full coordination between the corps of engineers and other federal. state. and local agencies. particularly with the new jersey department of environmental protection and the u.s. environmental protection agency. controversy over controlling and utilizing the waters of the passaic river has existed since at least 1903. when the basin experienced a record flood. only very recently extensife negotiations have resulted in the endorsement of our amendment by all environmental and local governing organizations in attendance at a meeting called by state officials. this agreement did  come in time to have our amendment considered by the public works committee and we appreciate the attention given to the amendment at this time. i urge adoption of the amendment.
. i am today introducing legislation to terminate a 15yearold authorization of the tocks island dam and reservoir project on the delaware river. senators roth. javits. proxmire. nelson. and biden have joined me in sponsoring this legislation. which is intended to clear the way for a new beginning on meeting the flood control. water supply. power development and recreation problems of the area surrounding the proposed project. the tocks island project. which was first authorized in october 1962. contemplated a 160foot high dam that would create a 37mile. 12.000acre lake in an amazingly beautiful valley of the delaware river. over the years. questions arose about the environmental impact of impounding the free flowing waters of the delaware river and about the ability of the proposed dam and reservoir to meet their stated objectives. as a result. congress in 1974 authorized an impartial. comprehensive analysis of the project. including a study of alternative means of meeting the objectives of the project. the study was authorized because congress recognized that a decision had to be made. there was an understanding that congress would actand act decisivelyonce the study had been completed and the govers of the four states bordering the delaware river had made their recommendations based on the study. based on the findings of the study. the delaware river basin commission. made up of a federal representative and the govers of the four states bordering the delaware river. recommended that further funds be appropriated by congress for construction of the dam and reservoir. the govers. however. also recommended that congress continue to appropriate funds for land acquisition in the project area. a project for which funds are appropriated does hing to solve the problems of the area. indeed. it impedes progress on alternative measures. such as those suggested in the congressionally authorized study. it is this situation that led me and those joining with me in sponsoring this bill to propose deauthorization of the tocks island project. our bill will deauthorize the dam and reservoir project and transfer all lands acquired for the project to the department of interior for administration as part of the delaware water gap national recreation area. a recreation project that surrounds the dam and reservoir site. land acquisition for the recreation area is more than 75 percent completed. it is my hope that through this legislation we can complete the land acquisition and preserve for the nation an opportunity for recreation in an area where the delaware river has cut a ch through the 1.200foothigh kitatinny range. at the same time. i believe that approval of this legislation will stimulate progress toward meeting realistically the flood control. water supply. and power generation needs of the area. through the alternatives suggested in the congressionally approved study. it is time to stop looking back over our shoulders and to get on with the job ahead of us.
. the whole democratic world will approve the anncement made on friday on the part of the united states and france and great britain that theie should be civilian administration in western germany. i wish to emphasize that those of us who have been deeply concerned about the manifestations of nazism in the western zones of germany during the administration of the military governments there. want to be sure that there is  only a civilian government for western germany which this anncement contemplates. but that there is also a civilian administration which will utilize to the full and cooperate with democratic and antinazi elements in those zones on the part of the occupying powers. in the matter of the ination of trustees for the ruhr iron and steel industries. in the matter of the comings and goings and of striking out the names of those suspected of having nazi affiliations who sought to participate in the german industrial fair in new york city. in remarks attributed to officials of military government like those attributed to the director of the administration of whole province of wurtemberg baden showing a lack of concern foi the recurrence of nazi influence in german public affairs (new york herald tribune. february 26. 1949). we have deep concern that our people who are handling the situation in germany are too prone to themselves forget that the germans have on three occasions been the greatest aggressive force the world has ever kn. too prone to let circumstances develop under which they could start their aggressive belligerency and their outrages against human rights again. it will be recalled the names of 12 germans were recently submitted by the bizonal ecoic administrationwhich is an indiges german agencyto the western allied military govers as managerial trustees of the ruhr iron and steel works. the report of the new york times. february 26. 1949 states the following with respect to this list: most able among german selections were heinrich dinkelbach. former financial director of the vereinigte stahlwerke and sponsor and financial contributor to the nazi ss. and herman j. als. former deutsch bank director who was denced in a special military government report a year ago as a participant in the exploitation of nazioccupied countries. it will be recalled also that the democratic world was shocked recently by evidences of the revival of the nazi spirit shown in such movements as the league for german revival of which it is stated that leading former nazi leaders are the guiding spirits. we welcome this change just annced by the three occupying powers and have a right to expect that by this change the civilian administrations on both sides both for the occupying powers and for the germans of the western zones. will at long last deal only with the democratic elements who are there. and who have been shamefully neglected. and  the nazi elements and nazi affiliates in western germany.
. the problem of the return of the 26.000 greek children abducted by the communist guerrilla forces in greece is critically important as it is a living example of the assaults against humanitarian ideals the western world has been suffering in the cold war. even in the countries behind the iron curtain where these children have been lodged there should be a revulsion of the men and women who are parents themselves against the taking away of these children from their own homes and parents. and public opinionwhich even in ironcurtain countries existsshould compel the return of these children. i hope especially that in countries like yugoslavia. which has shown its independence in the last year. and in other countries like czechoslovakia and poland. which have historic ties with the west. help may be obtained for the return of these children. every effort to bring this about must be made. and the passage of this resolution should have a mighty influence in helping to attain this most humanitarian objective.
the first result we had to achieve was to keep the communists from overrunning europe. and i am thoroughly convinced. having been there. and the gentleman has been there. that if we had  gone there with the european recovery program. france. western germany. belgium. and holland would  be soviet satellites. they would have been completely infiltrated from within and overrun and  be behind the iron curtain. that was the great accomplishment of the first 2 years of this european recovery program. and that was certainly cheap at the price. in the next 2 years we have to devote ourselves to the needed integration. the committee on foreign affairs has. i think. been fair. it has earmarked $600.000.000 in this bill which the european nations can get. they can get a dollar of it. unless they integrate their markets and their ecoy exactly as the gentleman says.
on page 19. line 3. the standard is set forth as being "will contribute to accomplishing the purposes of this title as effectively as would participation in comparable programs on a bilateral basis." in other words. the objective must be fully and readily attainable. i would like to point out one other amendment which the gentleman from connecticut will introduce. which i think is of the greatest importance in this bill. and that is an amendment that provides that the president shall  give aid under this bill unlessand i refer to page 26. line 6it is consistent.with the foreign policy of the united states. the gentleman from connecticut ties it down accurately and exactly with respect to all such countries as bulgaria. communist china. and other areas which we are  recognizing and which are behind the iron curtain.
the testimony before the foreign affairs committee showed two things: first. that the representatives from abroad say that the manpower was available but the equipment was . this would further cut down the equipment. secondly. that the lead time ran up to as much as 18 months. if you cut the program  you are cutting yourself. because you will  get it at the end.
i will. i will also include the verbatim statement of both presidential candidates. may i conclude by saying that i hope what i have said will be constructive. i hope very much that we may discuss the mccarran act without any sweeping generalizations about any religious or national origins or any other kind of group. and that if any of my colleagues feel that some particular person or persons. regardless of their faith or national origins. have done or said something that they disagree with. then let us name names. let us  deal in sweeping generalities which such bitter and recent world history. including the present murderous persecution of jews behind the iron curtain going on right . has shown can lead to results so mischievous to human society.
. all of us applaud the escape of the six who prefer freedom from czechoslovakia by the sensational passenger airplane exploit under the leadership of helmut cermiak. an engineer. and m. slovak. the pilot. we have similarly applauded other sensational escapes. some. like that of the young polish pilot who flew a russian mig to denmark. of inestimable aid to free world defense and security. these escapes are a tremendous blow to the communists and their satellites. we want them continued. but are we offering the escapees a real haven. the preference czechoslovak immigration quota into the united states is mortgaged ahead to the year 2000. those escapees from behind the iron curtain who have been crowding into west berlin by the thousands since the communists have been trying to seal off the east from the west zone of germany. are living under the grave difficulties of crowded refugee camps far beyond the capacity of west berlin to maintain. west berlin is  receiving almost 1.500 refugees a day. the situation is such that mayor reuter. of west berlin. is here on a moneyraising mission for their relief. only adequate immigration opportunities can give these escapees from behind the iron curtain a fair haven. the number. is  unmanageable. there are 15.000 escapees. other than east zone germans (who have german nationality). from behind the iron curtain in west europe. but resettlement by immigration will  work if we do  take our fair share as we did with the displaced persons. the displacedpersons law permitted the admission of political refugees. there is  such provision on the books. such legislation should be high on the congressional agenda as a must. this agenda is the responsibility of the administration and of our congressional leadership. the judiciary committee could take prompt action on this matter. as there is trouble in getting up the necessary legislation as soon as it gets the green light for this session.
 we are trying to sustain. what is that foreign policy. is it only to give money for foreign aid.  is it only to resist communistarmed aggression in korea.  for it also includes dealing with other major world problems in the cold war. and that is what we are talking about here today. dealing with the problem of iron curtain refugees and migration problems in free europe. all of it is part of the same effort. foreign aid. use of troops abroad to repel communist aggression. our own defense appropriations and. this very bill which is before the house today. so many of those who are against this bill. use rationalizations and give lots of reasons why they are against it. but when you get down to it they are exactly the same people who want us to go it alone in every respect and who believe that fortress united states can survive in a communist world. i think the great majority of the congress and the great majority of the american people believe that this conclusion is false and that to go it alone is a path which will lead us to destruction. and they will  take this course. if you will  take it. you should vote for this bill. just as you have voted for the other bills to sustain t his policy. i think that is the whole nubbin of this argument. whom are we trying to receive into the united states under this bill. we are trying to break the russian power by encouraging useful people to escape from behind the iron curtain. people are escaping from behind the iron curtain. and we think that is a terrific help to the free peoples because it demonstrates that behind the iron curtain is  that paradise which the russians are trying to sell to all the people of the world. and many of these very men who oppose this bill say with remarkable success. but that it is really a dreadful dungeon. in order to try to attract these people to the escape route. do we want them cooped up in camps in berlin. which i and so many others in this congress have seen. which is a complete frustration of life. or do we want to give them a ray of light in this and many other countries. considering the grave problems of free europe being dealt with by the intergovernmental committee for european migration so vital to free europes future again if we take a fair share that agency can make measurable progress in resettling the surplus workers of free europe. we saw in the displaced persons program that if we do  take our fair share other countries do  take their share. a million dps were resettled because we took our fair share. if we take our share of the refugees and escapees we will settle the refugees from behind the iron curtain. help free europe with a major problem and the united states will have taken relatively a very small number considering our population. with respect to housing and employment the dps have been found to be very useful. they have been well integrated in our country according to the wellnigh universal opinion and those to be admitted under this bill will do as well. if we are going to wage effectively this fight for freedom that we all like to talk about and are so deeply in. we have to support this bill.
it is very clear that the committee can possibly take any such amendment that the distinguished gentleman has offered for this reason: the purpose of the bill is to enable the united states. in cooperation with many other nations. to deal with this problem. this will absolutely tie our hands so that we can cooperate with anybody. in west berlin alone. as refugees from behind the iron curtain. 149.000 came in in the first 4 months of this year. the surplus population of europe is 31/2 million. if we tie our hands. as is proposed in this amendment. then the bill becomes useless in any way in having the united states show that it is taking its fair share in resettling the balance.
. it is vital that we show our recognition of the thirst for freedom behind the iron curtain by encouraging in all appropriate ways those who have stood up against the communist tyranny in east berlin. east germany. poland. czechoslovakia. rumania. hungary. and other communistdominated countries. we must protest against the religious persecutions of all religious faiths behind the iron curtain as showing the duplicity of communist protestations of being a classless society. a duplicity as great as that practiced in their claim to be a workers society while they suppress workers. with this resolution we put our moral support behind these gravely afflicted peoples and at the same time show our determination without endangering or hazarding them to back their cause. the recession of the communist tide will come if the satellites are again restored to the ranks of the free peoples. this is probably one of the prime objectives of our policy. indeed a decisive objective.
my thesis is that you have to open up markets. and markets mean human needs. increasing production in areas where production is very low today. this is the whole problem of the development of the undeveloped areas. only when you do that will you afford markets which europe needs both in getting the raw materials it needs. which it  must acquire in fact behind the iron curtain. or in selling its own output of manufactured goods. this is a job on which we have fallen down. and the evidence of our failure is contained in the continuance of this trade in strategic materials with the governments behind the iron curtain. let me emphasize that the trade relatively speaking is small. it amounts to roughly 2 percent of the whole trade of the free world. and it has been falling. which is a very. very important consideration. i would like to emphasize that i am deeply concerned with the gentlemans discussion. but i think the important thing to nail down today is that our allies are  knifing us in the back in terms of eastwest trade in weapons or strategic goods. the allegations about the shipping of arms. ammunition. and so forth to our deadly enemies lead only to suspicion and distrust. which of all times we can least afford today. i think that at all times this has to be said and reiterated and proven. that was my purpose in taking the floor today.
imports and exports in strategic goods between the united states and iron curtain countries have. as far as i k. hing to do with reciprocal trade agreements. therefore it would  come under this legislation or be affected by it one way or the other.
 finds that it would be in the best interests of the united states to permit the prompt entry of escapees. he may direct the attorney general to admit refugees who are within the limits of any country which is neither communist. communist dominated.  communist occupied. the bill limits the number of escapees who may enter in any year to approximately 77.000 and defines escapee as an alien who has fled any communistdominated area or from a country in the middle east because of racial. religious. or political persecution. in the bill. mideast is defined as the area between and including libya on the west. turkey on the th. pakistan on the east. and saudi arabia and ethiopia on the south. this bill is similar to the administration measure. s. 1006. providing for the admission of refugees from communist states. but the ivesjavits bill would add escapees fleeing the tensions in the middle east to the list of refugees eligible to enter the united states. and add 10.000 to the number annually admissible under the administration bill to deal with this situation. we must  recognize that our policy with respect to refugees and escapees is an important part of our overall foreign policy. the flight from hungary of thousands of refugees and our policy in helping resettle them effectively illustrates that. the plight of those of jewish faith expelled from egypt poses aher serious problem we must face and there may yet be other eruptions from behind the iron curtain. as i have said. approximately 12.000 egyptian jews. according to the latest figures available. have been forced out of or from egypt as a result of the policy of persecution by col. nassers government. this figure represents almost onefourth of egypts total jewish population of 50.000. certainly. these unfortunate men and women who were expelled or who fled after having been systematically pauperized. maltreated and interned as common criminals because of their adherence to their faith or because they are  egyptian citizens are less refugees and less deserving of sympathetic assistance from the government and people of the united states than those who were able to escape the terror in hungary. this bill would provide for the admittance of a share of these people into the united states as well as establishing the framework for the admission of other groups of escapees whatever their race or religion from future terroristic oppression or from communist dominated regimes. one of our tasks in the fight against communism is to provide an attractive alternative to those living under communism. offering those seeking escape from behind the iron curtain the prospect of resettlement and realization of their hope to live under free institutions.
i present a copy of a resolution adopted at a great mass meeting of americans of polish extraction held in buffalo. n. y.. on may 3. urging upon our government the policy of giving the people behind the iron curtain in poland some hope that they have a friend who will give them humanitarian support in the way of food and medicine. i ask unanimous consent that the resolution may be printed in the record.
i just heard the senator make a statement about there being advantages to the united states of the treaty as against a bilateral arrangement. but the senator has  said anything about the proposals for inspection and control which would extend into the respective countries. including the countries behind the iron curtain. does  the senator feel that the value of experience with inspection and control would be more determinative under the treaty than it would be under a bilateral arrangement.
i am very grateful to my colleague from illis. i may say that in one of our great new york city newspapers. the new york times. the senator from illis comes in for some very complimentary comments. the new york times. in its lead editorial today. under the heading "the right to vote." comments on the outstanding leadership which the senator from illis. working as a team with the distinguished miity leader. has rendered in this field.
 has already stated that this kind of activity need  be susceptible of the fingerprinting requirement. it seems to me that where there is negotiationas there undoubtedly will beto effectuate this exchange between governmental bodies that gives an added check. in terms of security. which makes fingerprinting unnecessary. let me also point out that the definition of the word "official." in connection with the authority of the state department to exclude fingerprinting in the case of officials. has been very much stretched in order to afford such exchanges as we have been able to work out with countries behind the iron curtain. and there is reason why the state department should be put to this necessity. hence. as a supplement to the concurrent resolution which i submit. which will apply equally to all student exchanges. matter from what sources. the state department. on the basis of reciprocity. will have the capability of waiving the fingerprinting requirement. in that respect. with regard to the extension of our reciprocal arrangements with countries behind the iron curtain and the impediment which represents the fingerprinting requirement. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record. as a part of my remarks. an article entitled "united states is expanding its cultural ties with soviet bloc." which was published in the new york times of july 21. 1957. as well as an editorial entitled "united statessoviet exchange." which was published in the new york times on the following day.
. it has been said many times that the iron curtain is perhaps the greatest incitement to some kind of an armed struggle between the soviet union and the united states that exists. this curtain can be rung down. of course. by them. but it also can be rung down by us. and mainly it can be rung down by the demonstration that we are sincerely anxious to let their people see what we have. if they will. on a reciprocal basiswhich is the only mature way of proceedingand let ours see what they have. in that kind of an exchange i think we would really be calling the soviet unions bluff. if that is what it is. but let us hope and pray it is . and that they will take advantage of the exchange. i think it represents real confidence in ourselves to take such a position. i hope the state department will go forward to implement what can be done toward ringing down the iron curtain. and using such efforts as it can from our side to do so. as we devoutly hope and pray the people of the communist countries will do on their side. even though their governments are totalitarian. there exists a public opinion favorable to doing that which is necessary to accomplish the great human objectives.
. in connection with the problem which still is with us. of allowing united states newspapermen to visit red china. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point as a part of my remarks a lead editorial from the new york times of today. entitled "problem in diplomacy."
the new york times recommends that. at long last. the state department acts to permit american newspapermen to go into red china. and contends that this would be a very much wiser exercise of the executive discretion than to lift the bars against americans generally trnveling there in the first instance. with specific applicability to the young people who have attended the youth festival in moscow. it is feltand i think very properlythat. to begin with. it is one thing to determine. with the help of experienced newspaper eyes. what is going on in red china. it is aher thing to allow young people to make themselves the object of a propaganda campaignand we all k that that is all the communist chinese intended. i have introduced proposed legislation to provide for an expanded student exchange between the united states and the countries behind the iron curtain. but excluding red china. i hope very much that someday red china may show itself to be a civilized power. entitled to the reciprocity and consideration of other nations. we certainly have plenty to complain about with respect to the other countries behind the iron curtain. there. at least. we are encouraged to try. with respect to red china. we have  even been encouraged to do that. because she remains an aggressor and a threat against the peace of the world in vietnam. taiwan. and other areas. i commend this editorial as a wise exercise of statesmanlike judgment. in an area where we can do somethinghowever.  what the young people  in moscow wish us to do.
. i hope the senate appropriations committee. with its customary sense of responsibility. will. today as it marks up the mutual security appropriation bill. bear in mind that right here. where we can control it. lies a most serious danger to our foreign policy. and i hope our appropriations committee will respond in that spirit. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record. as a part of my remarks. the lead editorial. entitled "the u. n. and the mideast." from todays issue of the new york times. and also the article to which i have referred. written by joseph alsop. and published today in the new york herald tribune.
i was one who was deeply troubled by the vote on that proposal. i am sure most of us want our country to lead in the production of power from the atom. even if it means spending a great deal of money. however. it is always difficult to force money on a commission or governmental agency when it does  want the money. when we try to force it to take the money. we are likely to get the result that we saw when congress tried to force president truman to accept $8 million for the air force. he would  be forced to take it. i am delighted and deeply relieved that this matter has been agreed to. and i hope very much that the procedure may  go forward.
i think the argument the senator is makingwith which i thoroughly agreeis equally applicable to the point which is often made that we should  help india build a dam because we are  helping some state in the united states build a dam.
. i wish to identify myself with the sentiments which have been expressed today about the fulbright scholarship program. i express the hope that the senate will give attention to similar exchanges to countries behind the iron curtain. i think that is a rather important matter which is before the committee.
i wish to join my colleagues in expressing appreciation for the detailed and wellconsidered analysis of our foreign policy situation being made by a distinguished advocate of the bipartisan foreign policy. who is also a member of the committee on foreign relations. i should like to invite my colleagues attention to two points which i think bear upon this discussion. we all realize that this is an authorization bill. and we have yet to fight the battle to determine how much money will actually be appropriated. but this bill is very important. from the standpoint of establishing conditions upon which appropriations will be based. i was a member of the foreign affairs committee of the other body when we first decided upon this plan of yearly authorization as well as yearly appropriation. i think it has turned out to be a very good plan. is it  a fact that we face a rather historic decision upon two points in the bill. especially in view of the shock to our national vanity which has come about lately by reason of some pretty hard and realistic blows to our foreign policy position. there are two questions which we must decide. i should like to have my colleagues views upon them. i k that he is very well informed upon the subject. first. do we or do we  wish to draw a cordon sanitaire around the communist bloc and say. "they are out. we will  do anything with them. they will have to paddle their own ca. we will  try to win any of them away. and if any country behind the iron curtain wishes independence it will have to gain independence before we will do anything for it." obviously we are  going to drop guns. although some have suggested that we do so in hungary. but we will  even drop dollars. that is fundamental question  1. i agree entirely with the senator from minnesota. we talk about being smart in this game. we have been outsmarted from time to time because we did  take advantage of our opportunities. this program represents the kind of equipment we need for that purpose.
i think the senator from kentucky is trying to wrestle with a very difficult problem. and that he is making some progress. i hope the senate will encourage it. because it is a fact that the cases lead up to a very thin dividing line. the senator from kentucky. by means of his amendment. and within the letter and spirit of the law. has tried to provide some specifics to be used in dealing with such cases. . i hope the amendment will be accepted. because it constitutes a measurable effort to do something about a matter which some of us who have stayed with the bill right along would like to have something done about.
. i ask unanimous consent that there may be printed in the record as a part of my remarks todays lead editorials on this subject published in the new york times. the new york herald tribune. and the washington post.
. i join with my colleagues in commending what i k to be a scholarly address of the first order. having done research on the subject myself and through my own staff. i am delighted to tell the senator from new jersey that he has stated some factors which have a bearing upon the field of our joint cause which others of us did  find in our research. i am delighted that the senator from new jersey has done this in his typical. scholarly. skilled way. i am very grateful to him. and i think the country should feel the same way. . this is a massive undertaking. and when one has the brotherhood of cooperation of such distinguished senators as my colleague from new jersey and the senator from illis . who has taken such a great lead in this fight. one feels  only uplifted by the work. but also uplifted by the brotherhood in arms which is reflected in such an association. i am very grateful to the senator from new jersey. i hope very much that the people of his state will take the same pride in him which we in the senate take in him. regardless of party.
. on behalf of myself and my distinguished colleague. the junior senator from new york . i introduce a joint resolution. designating the 9th day of march in each year as amerigo vespucci day. representative santangelo. of new york. is introducing a similar resolution in the house. amerigo vespucci. after whom our western hemisphere continues to be named. has made for himself a tremendous place in history as one of the discoverers of the land in south and central america. it is particularly important because he was the first of 5 million of his countrymen from italyhe was born in florence. italy. on march 9. 1451to set foot on the continent of america. he served as navigator on a voyage that in 1497 brought some of the first europeans within sight of the mainland of what was later to be called america. in ho of his name. he made three further voyages to the shores of this continent and he participated in the fitting out of christopher columbus second expedition. it is of special and timely interest to us. in this day of a new exploration which may lead us to the very stars which guided amerigo vespucci to our continent. that this man was the first explorer to sight cape canaveral. i think it is indeed fitting that the day of his birth be made a most special occasion.
. today. march 25. marks the 41st anniversary of the proclamation of independence of the byelorussian democratic republic in 1918. this independent state was relatively short lived. as it was partitioned between poland and russia by the riga treaty in 1921. during world war ii. the people of byelorussia again asserted their independence. but this freedom was also short lived. and soviet domination was again asserted over the approximately 10 million inhabitants of that unhappy land. on the anniversary of the declaration of byelorussian independence we recall again the continuing valiant struggle of enslaved peoples behind the iron curtain. this struggle for independence stands as a tribute to all who believe in the principles of freedom and individual dignity. and reminds us again of the suppressed people denied their freedom who are behind the iron curtain.
the senator from new york is  aware of those implications. and again the senator from new york points out that the coloration put on everything which was said or done might lead to the conclusion that something was done which was  proper.
i wish to identify myself with the senators position and to support his amendment. it is world refugee year. we have always been successful when we have taken our fair share. that happened with regard to the displaced persons. i had the ho of being on the displaced persons subcommittee of the committee on foreign affairs of the other body in 1947. every time good things have been done about refugees they have been done in this way. i wish to say also. . the 170.000 unsettled escapees from behind the iron curtain  in europe represent one of the greatest opportunities we have in the coldwar struggle. if we resettle them. we give new hope for freedom to all other levels of people behind the iron curtain who also may have a taste for freedom. i hope very much the senate will adopt the amendment.
 eisenhower can do the countries imprisoned behind the iron curtain a great deal of good when he talks to khrushchev. by always being cognizant of the fact that we expect to ho the dignity of the captive nations and their right to take the actions they deem proper.
. i. too. would like to join in the many memorials to our dear friend and departed colleague. senator bill langer. in a way. he was an illustration of one of the finest qualities of members of the u.s. senate. because he demonstrated that the qualities which men respect here are sincerity. integrity. hard work. fine character. and a humorous quality. which really is the quality of humility. as our colleague from oregon . who. is presiding. so tastefully and graciously explained. in the senate it is possible to disagree very often. as bill langer did. and still to occupy a beloved place among ones colleagues because of his qualities as a man. he provided a remarkable demonstration. men of such experience as only we have. in very active lives. have almost literally seen and understood everything. so we see and understand a colleague who is a sort of freewheeling conformist. in the rather interesting and colorful tradition of others from his area of the country. including borah and other senators who have been mentioned. yet he endeared himself to his colleagues. he was also. in an interesting sense. a stimulus to action. he made others consider very seriously whether they were right or wrong. because of the mettle by which he tested himself and what he presented in his own arguments. all of us must go. the question is what will we leave. this is the solace to our families and to our friends. and this is the very tiny additional drop in the mighty river of time. bill langer left a sweet. pure dropa little aggravated at times. but useful and stirring. he established a dear relationship in the hearts of those who knew him and served with him. he made a real contribution to the political activity of his time. i believe that this may be our common promise. which beams down kindly upon our families. who take great pride in the heritage which a man leaves behind for our nation and for other senators who come after him.
. a resolution was adopted by a large group of lithuanian americans gathered in webster hall. new york city. sunday. february 14. to commemorate the 42d anniversary of the restoration of the independence of lithuania. on february 16. lithuanias independence day. we paid tribute to the indomitable courage of the lithuanians enslaved behind the iron curtain. we have refused to recognize the illegal annexation of that country by russia and we join them in solemn observance of their independence day in prayerful hope for future freedom for lithuania and all enslaved peoples in the world. i ask unanimous consent that the resolution may be printed in the record.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a resolution adopted by the board of supervisors of delaware county. delhi. n.y.. protesting against the construction of the hawk mountain dam in the east branch of the delaware river. at the town of hancock.
i thank the senator from vermont for his observations. which. as usual. are pertinent and astute. that is what i meant when i said the russians would bomb the bases from which they believed the planes had come.  dangerous. the russians are  quite so crackpot as they might sound. there is a real purpose to everything khrushchev is doing. and that purpose is very clear . one is to insert a wedge in the free world by introducing the question as to the bona fide desire to reunify germany. there is doubt about that. it is borne out by the record stating in advance how they propose to launch an attack based on a convenient incident or a convenient reason. it is the tactic of "we told you so.  we have done it." i do  believe our people will be scared by this talk. as a matter of fact. khrushchev is  inuring us to scares by repeating them so often. however. what i think it will do. and as is shown by the statement of british minister of state for foreign affairs profumo. is to make the free world unified. because the free world will realize that this is the price of survival. in that respect. we will be striking a decisive blow for the introduction of freedom. as many persons. like myself. among others. have contended was the only way in which we could really marshal the resources of the free world and take the lead from the communist bloc. i hope this process will continue. and that our people will realize what is at stake and will lend themselves to it. the unification of the free world must be the watchword concerning what khrushchev has stirred up in this long drive to scare the free world.
i feel as does my colleague. i shall simply say that i would  dream of objecting to calendar  1736. senate joint resolution 152. which relates to the memorial to woodrow wilson. i am glad the joint resolution was passed. i hope the senate approaches the study and construction of memorials to both great presidents in exactly the same spirit. strictly upon the merits of the particular measure. but with complete parity of the fact that each great president is entitled to his memorial and recognition in the national capital.
i should like to express my concurrence in the distinguished miity leaders views. i happen to k robert bicks perhaps as well as anybody in this chamber. his family is very well kn to me. his father is a district judge in new york. his brother worked for me as an intern.  only does this man have tremendous talent for the office to which he has been appointed. as well as the kind of iron determination and fidelity to duty which it takes. but his whole family background is compatible to his doing a highly effective job for his government. it seems to me when we are trying to bring brilliant young men into the government to do this kind of work with complete dedication. men who have complete integrity. like robert bicks. we discourage them tremendously when they find their feet are upon the sticky. flypaper of the political process. i hope the understanding of this mans capability. and the importance of making it attractive for those who can do effective work to enter the federal service. whatever party is in control of the executive branch. will induce the senate leadership to act favorably on this ination. even in these last few days.
because the congress wrote such a provision into the law. some time ago. when such problems existed in the large metropolitan areas the congress confined that law to the rural areas and the small cities and towns.  the other body has taken the lead in regard to eliminating this discrimination. and inasmuch as in the pending bill we are authorizing the appropriation of funds for making direct loans. it is a proper bill by which to eliminate this discrimination. inasmuch as the senate does  have a veterans affairs committee. we try. when we can. to weave relief for veterans into the substantive legislation in which it belongs. thus. in connection with the pending bill. in which we authorize appropriations of $1.200 million more for direct veterans loansfor precisely this programtherefore. at the very least. we should remove from the law this discriminatory feature. which today exists in the law.
i quote these words at the beginning of my speech: on thursday last the distinguished majority leader. senator mansfield. of montana. made an important speech in this chamber on the german situation. these are the very words i used on february 19. 1959. in opening my own statement in response to a speech on the german crisis made a few days earlier by senator mansfield. then deputy majority leader. at that time i spoke to precisely the same situation which faces us today. so did the senator from montana . on thursday last. june 15. 1961. some 2 years and 4 months later. the senator from montana delivered aher speech on the german situation. but hing appears to have changed. he again is in favor of the creation of a free city.  in west berlin alone. but in the creation of a free city which embraces all berlin. let us compare this with his speech 2 years ago. it is important to remember that senator mansfields speech of february 1959 was within the direct context of the then existing crisis on berlin. which occurred when the soviet union in ember 1958 annced its intention to take unilateral action on berlin if its proposal for an east and west german committee was rejected by the west. . almost 21/2 years later. we have chairman khrushchevs new ultimatum to president kennedy that the west must get out by the end of december or the u.s.s.r. will sign a separate peace treaty with east germany. the senator from montana was speaking in light of premier khrushchevs ultimatum that the west must get out of berlin. a copy of my remarks have gone to the senator from montana . he ks i am to make this speech. i hope. if he feels constrained to reply. he will do so. in his own good time. i merely wish to make clear that the senator from montana had adequate ice that i would make these remarks. hing has changedindeed. senator mansfield is recommending. as he did in early 1959. negotiations between east and west germany. this time to establish a free city of berlin instead of an allberlin government. this recommendation. just as the one in 1959. would mean the abandonment of the two main western positions to which the west has doggedly adhered all this time: first. that negotiations between the socalled german democratic republic of the east and the german federal republic of the west are  the way to german unification. and that the unification of berlin must be a part of the unification of germany. and second. that the unification of germany should be accomplished. in the final analysis. whatever might be the interim steps. by allgerman elections. the senator from montana quite properly defines the words. which have been used before. "stand firm at berlin." to mean the following. and i quote again from the speech of the senator from montana of a week ago: the range of this commitment extends from a beginning of words of firmness. to a midpoint of expenditure of immense resources and emous taxes and other sacrifices. to a final pledge of the lives and fortunes of every man. woman. and child in the nation. i ask. should the range of this commitment scare us. are there  even worse alternatives to dangerfor example. the alternative of defeat. the one essential difference which points to an even greater danger  from the suggestion by senator mansfield than there was even in february 1959. is the fact that this proposal is made on the eve of an election campaign in west germany. which will be consummated by elections on september 17. 1961. anybody who ks germany ks that anything might happen in such an election. both as to issues and policies. ifand i emphasize the word "if"-the people of west germany were to feel that the west is playing with the idea of a compromise on berlin which would leave them out. that is supremely important. because in a sense west germany is. under the tutelage of the whole free world. gradually developing into a democratic state. if we did  k that. the testimony of eichmann should remind us that we are a short time away from a very different kind of germany. with very different ideas. and with a different kind of outlook. i do  think the free world can take for granted the difference that existed in the past and think that. matter what we do. the germans will permit to continue what adenauer has done for that country in bringing it into the free world camp. in my opinion. . it is also a policy  to propose an alternative. this is what i should like to speak about today. berlin is obviously irritating the russians. because they are always in a "flap" about it. mr. khrushchev indicates very clearly. even as recently as this morning. that this is the case. the berlin problem should  irritate us.  should we have any doubt about our legal right to be there. for we are there under the terms of the wartime agreements for occupation of berlin. which make it very clear. we may have left much to be desired in regard to the means of access to berlin and the regulation of those means as well. but certainly the wartime agreements are very clear as to our right to be where we areto be there responsibly. and  to be starved out or forced out. it is that obligation to be there which we must safeguard with the same coolness and the same determination that the russians are using.  only on that front. but on others. i would be the last to say that this is  without riskof course it has riskbut i would be the first to say that it is a risk which if  taken is likely to lead to reverses far worse in character. and could lead to defeat. i think a big factor which must determine what shall be our course in berlin is to ask first why we are in berlin at all. 16 years after the end of world war ii. we are there because we must assure the people of berlin that we and our allies recognize our responsibilities for the unification of germany under freedom. which we can relinquish. if we agree with the russians on that. that is all right. too. in other words. if germany must be unified and integrated with a total europe. and thereby we are assured she will be dedicated to peace. that will be all right. i should like to say a word to my colleagues on the republican side which i think is very important for all of us. many people have the idea. because we. or at least many of us. are so passionately anticommunistic. that we have forgotten all about the nazis and all about what they did to the world.  once but in two world wars. there is the same general idea even going back to the francoprussian war. hing could be further from the fact. we do tend. because the danger is imminent. to emphasize the communist menace. but i think it would be a great mistake for anybody to have the idea that we have forgotten about the other totalitarian menaces which we and other americans have joined in dedicating our lives and fortunes to defeat. i think that is very important. because much is made of the fact that because one is so strongly anticommunistic one is thereby kind of excusing aher kind of totalitarian ideology. i think i can confidently say. for all of us. this is  the case. and it never was. and is  in our contemplation at all.
on the contrary. i am  sanguine as to the time. i am only discussing whether conditions  are more promising than they were 16 years ago. i think they are more promising . but as to the time. it may take several more decades to do anything about the unification of germany. as regards our entire concept and policy. it seems to me that all our people have to gird themselves for this eventuality. because againinasmuch as we have been discussing the spending of money and foreign aidwe are very much interested in what we spend. and i could  agree more. but we also must consider what we have to spend it for. if the free world is growing. developing. and producing more. although we may have. certainly. to invest more money in the situation that berlin is in right . it may be a very good investment. and i think it is. for example. let us think what it would mean to khrushchev if he had the kind of demonstration laboratory for communism that we have for freedom. right smack in the middle of the whole iron curtain. it seems to me he would  be worried whether he spent a few hundred million dollars a year for that. so we should  be worried about it. and that should  be a reason for our adopting the stated alternative. which in my opinion could only lead us "down the drain" in respect to this situation. of course i can understand why the senator from montana and all others would be very unhappy about the fact that 16 years have passed. but i have made the point as to why i believe unification is  in a better frame of reference. but i am the first to agree that these are  the major points for negotiation. we are  getting anywhere in that respect. nevertheless. we are engaged in a long struggle. of which this is a phase. and i believe this is one of the key phases. because what we do in berlin. right in the heart of the iron curtain countries. and as it relates to all the rest of europe. will be the key in regard to the extent of our fortitude in respect to all other phases of this matter. if we display fortitude in regard to berlin. the world will. in the final analysis. k that we can be relied on. and thus the rest of the world will be with us. but if we did  display fortitude in regard to berlin. i fear that we would lose the confidence and the support of the rest of the world. that is the basis of my position.
i am sure of that. too. and if the senator did  think so. i am sure he would  have made the speech. i am rather well acquainted with what the senator thinks. but regardless of whatever conation may be placed on the speech of the senator from montana. and regardless of whatever he may think. i wish to state that i believe the "free city" concept would lead to precisely what the senator from montana does  want. any more than it is what i want. and that is why i made the speech.
obviously the report will be agreed to. i have intention of opposing it. i should like to say to my friend from oklahoma that this is a rather fundamental point. there are many laws under which we deprive nationals of the same opportunities that we give our citizens. they relate. for example. most damagingly in the cases of agreements with foreign countries. or funding agreements with relation to iron curtain countries. where the people have suffered losses when the communists took over. for instance. there are cases where there is money left. and it is distributed. the distribution is then confined to citizens. although most of the people affected are alien residents who have  yet become citizens. as i understand. the provision is limited to 1 year.
i should like to support ican universities in various countries. i mitting assistance to those schools. the senator from arkansas in his opposi- do  k whether it is called an . will fered by my colleague. but i can sup- one is located at beirut is one at cairo. mr. mundt if we are to make the educational ex- is there any provision in the fulbright mr. dworshak. under the prochange really count. we must have a act or in the smithmundt act which vision in the bill as it is  written. clear understanding it is education we permits grants to students to attend would it be possible to finance the eduare after. there must be freedom to those american universities. cation of some person abroad in a colae catin here ist wbe teeot mr. mundt. that is covered in the lege behind the iron curtain. locate education where it will be the most original act. public law 402. my amend- mr. mundt. i do  think that effective and will do the most good. ment would  change it. the amend- mr.l mudt ier reaistic in upsta in my own experience. i have found metwudntcag t h mnwould be very realistic. i suppose it that studens studyinunde r acan ment would kk out the new authority would be possible. i am sure the comthat students studying under american to expand the program to other institu- mittee does  have that in mind. auspices in other countries get the flavor tions. mr. dworshak. in handling these of what we are trying to do as effectively mr. cooper. if the amendment p ra oth ing sc s as n te uite sttes thre s geatprograms hing is ralistic. i should as in the united states. there is great should be agreed to. students could re- like to have some assurance as to ecoy. very often. both in respect to ceive grants to attend those american whether the financing under this seetravel time and cost. the program gives universities. us a mobility we might  otherwise mr. mundt. the amendment would tion. on page 5. might provide for athave itcariesoutthe oncpt hatourtendance at colleges behind the iron curhave. it carries out the concept that our  at all change the provision in pub- tain or for attendance at colleges which empire. in terms of education. is the lic law 402. which i can identify for have communist teachers who might be worldis the mind of man. the record so that it will be clear. the spreading propaganda. i join the senator in opposing the section in the original act which covers r.amnd ioa su te amendment. that matter would  in any way be mr. mundt. i assure the senator
 of course i am very grateful to my colleague for joining me. as he has always done. so very eloquently and so very effectively in the discussion of this matter. again i pay tribute to his outstanding contribution to this cause in 1960. when he. together with the senator from illis . sponsored the amendment. i should like to point out the similarity between what we are facing in the near east and what we are facing in berlin. latin america. and the congo. it is becoming almost the te of united states foreign policy that we can get everyone to like us and we can get everyone to agree with us. obviously it is impossible. by some process of obtaining popularity. to have all other countries agree with the positions our country takesfor instance. in regard to berlin or in regard to repatriating refugees to israel. obviously our country must adopt the proper policy in regard to all such difficult problems. because the proper policy is the only means by which to avoid the subversion of the free world. the contribution made by my colleague is an outstanding example of our determination to establish the proper policy. of course we could. on the other hand. follow a policy which could please the arabs. doubt. by favoring repatriation of the refugees to israel whatever it might do to israels security and independence. but obviously that would be a colossal mistake on the part of the united states. the policy for which we speak is one which. if consistently followed. will lead to world stability. instead of having the world go further down into the abyss. so i am very grateful to my colleague for joining with me in helping develop a little further this concept.
i understand. let me say that i love the senator from montana. as he ks. and i realize that he did  suggest that i was carping with the president. but i wish to make my point clear. as i have stated. i am  carping with the president. as regards berlin. i am entirely with him. i merely point out that the crisis which faces us is so profound that more than the president has requested must be done. i do  think the president has requested egh. as regards the statement the senator from montana has made. i do  agree with it in the following respect: i do  think the negotiable points are between what the president has requested and what the congress might wish to do. i think the negotiable points are between what i and other senators believe in good conscience must be done in this crisis and what others believe should be done or should  be done. in my opinion. that is the area in which the congress must make the decisions. unless those who feel as i feel do all we can to have the congress add to the requests the president already has made of us. so as to have the congress provide more than the president has thus far requested of itand i am convinced that more than he has requested is really needed in a crisis such as the one which  confronts uswe shall  be doing our duty. i believe that in this situation the president has  requested egh sacrifices by the american people. i believe that in this crisis more sacrifices by them are needed. the president has always been forthright in discussing such situations. he has always spoken in the most eloquent and bold way in regard to the crises which face us. but when he has gotten down to cases. he has  asked for very much. we found that to be the case in regard to cuba and also in regard to berlin. if the president is going to lead the american people in taking proper steps in terms of the situations confronting themand the president must do so. and today we run the risk of actual war. and even nuclear warit is his duty to call on the american people for what is needed in order to take adequate steps in terms of the dire alternatives which face them. that is what i am talking about. and that is my duty.
. there is one area in which we are very weak in terms of our voice abroad. and that is the size. the consequence. and the impact of that voice. are we breaking through to the russian people. are we breaking through to the rest of the world in the way we must when these opportunities are presented to us on a platter by chairman khrushchev.  because he is  intelligent but because. like everybody else. he has to be controlled by the twofaced dynamics of his own position. first. he wants to tell the russian people that they are grand. that they are entitled to grandeur. and. second we have to bear this contradiction home on him. this is the way to break his power. we k full well that we may  be able to break his power at home. because of the iron grip the communists have on the throat of their people and those they have enslaved. whether the communists will prevail or  will depend upon one and a quarter billion people of the world. the socalled neutralists who want to k which path to travel. it is they to whom this message must be crashed through. i think the times definitely call for as much expenditure as possible in a relative sense. for as much emphasis on getting our story through as there is upon military preparation.
the senator from montana. with his customary precision and grace. has stated his position. whether one agrees or disagrees. precision is always desirable. so i very much appreciateand i think the country will appreciatewhat the senator has done to lead all of us to understand how we may proceed. i should like to ask the senator two questions. first. i have an amendment to the appropriation bill having hing to do with the subjects to which the senator referred. the amendment relates to the usia. and involves a very important question for our country. i hope we may find a way  to "throw out the baby with the bath." and to fix a time when we might consider amendments which would have come up in the mal course had  the particular procedure with respect to the extension of the civil rights commission been adopted.
. the magazine editor & publisher for august 26. 1961. contains an article entitled "favorable reaction to eichmann trial." the conclusion of favorable reaction to the eichmann trial was drawn by the antidefamation league following a survey which was made of 1.800 newspapers all over the world. the survey included the reaction of newspapers behind the iron curtain and gave a report of the unfavorable reaction of some of those newspapers. generally. the survey gave a balanced picture of world opinion concerning the eichmann trial. i ask unanimous consent that the report published in the magazine editor & publisher of august 26. 1961. be printed in the record as a part of my remarks.
. . these are by means two inconsistent positions. for what they represent is the effort to pry open this fiction but etheless grave reality. when one is actually there. of the iron curtain. it is extremely important that by its silence the world should  repeat the mistakes it has so tragically made in the past with respect to the incidence of an antijewish situation which exists . i am convinced. in the soviet union. rather the world should protest in the most distinct manner. especially bearing in mind the sensitivity of the leaders of the soviet union to any charge of antisemitism and the pride which they take in the fact that they live in an allegedly classless. unbigoted society. the protest should be utilized on a large scale in the world to break through to them and to the russian people the sense of indignation and outrage felt by the free world when it sees even some indications of an antijewish policy. i am convinced that such indications are very real and present. and there is a situation of very serious peril. secondly. we should give every opportunity. consistent with the security and protectiveness which we have a right to expect fromfthe administration on these agreements. for soviet people of importance to come out and have a look at the world and the united states in particular. i am confident that we can do so without any material jeopardy to the issue of security. a good many senators have spoken to me about the remarks i have made today and have given me a great sympathetic feeling of identity about their own views with those i have expressed. for the record. i should like to read a very brief e sent to me by the distinguished miity leader. the senator from. illis [mr. dirksenj. who had an opportunity to read the remarks which 1 prepared for today. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the letter be printed at this point in my remarks.
following the splendid lead of the distinguished senator from colorado . i simply wish to get the facts very clearly. my parliamentary inquiry is this: i gather that the bill which has just been introduced has been received by tacit unanimous consent. this  being the hour when bills are mally introduced.
. we must watchfully mind the militaryindustrial complex. for it tends to generate powerful ecoic and political pressures beyond the anticipations even of the participants themselves. but these are matters of proportion and sensible national leadership. requiring the same kind of continuing oversight and perspective that other major power groupings in our society. including business. labor. and government itself. require in the interest of keeping our system flexible. balanced and free. in a half century of national service. i have yet to meet the american military officer who viewed himself as a budding napoleon. or even a rasputin. and i suggest it is worthy of e that in recent world history the three major dictators. hitler. mussolini and stalin. came from civil life. this fact does  warrant a general indictment of civilian motivation. any more than one or two military extremists might warrant the absurdity that all the military harbors political designs dangerous to our constitutional form of government. i believe. therefore. that your committee will render valuable service by rejecting the recent spate of attacks upon the competence and loyalty of the military and by disapproving any effort to thrust them. so to speak. behind an amercan iron curtain. ordered to stand mutely by as hostile forces tirelessly strive to undermine every aspect of american life. i say. let our informed military speak. always under properly established policies and the general pettysupervision of their civilian superiors. should they. here or there. speak or act partisanly. imprudently. or in contravention of national policies. then hold them directly accountable. for it is a function of command to keep military personnel properly respectful of the obligations of the uniform. at all events. i am certain of this: give military leaders a lucid explanation of the nations policies. and they will. with rare and easily controllable exceptions. loyally perform. generally in the same connection. i question the desirability of requiring the topmost government officials. whether military or civilian. to submit their proposed public statements for what amounts to censorship of contentas distinguished from security mattersprior to their utterance. i am aware. in saying this. that procedures in my own and in the administration of my predecessor may have functioned in this way. but. in thoughtful reassessment of this procedure. i incline to the view that when responsible and restricted officials feel compelled to submit to censorship. we are smothering the concept of personal responsibility under a practice of heavyhanded and unjustified staff supervision. responsible officials. when in doubt. will voluntarily "coordinate" proposed public statements within their own and sister departments so as to protect the nation. their services and themselves. but such voluntary coordination is some distance from censorship. i would hope that all who study this problem objectively will see the virtues of such a "cooperative" system as opposed to censorship. except. of course. where security is involved. i have always believedas i  dothat good faith and close understanding among the important officials of great human organizations are far more important to success than are any number of arbitrary regulations and pedantic instructions. this is really the meaning of this letter. so viewing the problems before your subcommittee. i wish you and your colleagues well in your endeavor to maintain balance and good sense in respect to the matters receiving your current consideration. with warm regard. sincerely.
. the 14th anniversary of the establishment of the state of israel. celebrated this year on may 9. offers an opportunity to hail the people of israel for the great strides of progress they have made. they have used the resources available to them with such industry and ability as to set a strong example of progress under freedom for all the countries of the middle east. as a democratic state representing most of the virtues america believes in as well as the teachings of judaism. israel is also extending its technical assistance and a pattern of democracy to the developing countries of africa and asia. if israel is to realize its fullest potential. however. it is essential that there be an end to the present uneasy truce with the arab states. israel is on the brink of a new industrial surge. which may take its ecoy to new high levels. but as long as its national security is threatened. it must .carry the costly burden of armaments. .which holds it back in terms of pros. perity and usefulness to the whole near east area. i believe. therefore. that we should stimulate our nations support of measures leading to an initiative for peace and a foreign policy that will work actively for an end to arab boycotts. pro.mote regional development and the association of israel with the european ecoic community. resettle the refugees in arab lands. and. within the framework of direct peace talks. provide for compensation on reasonable terms for arab property abandoned in israel. through scientific approaches. israel has made historic advances in the development of natural resources which can change the face of the entire near east. on the 14th anniversary of its independence. peace is the greatest wish one can hold for the people of israel. they have on numerous occasions demonstrated their fidelity to freedom and their loyalty as friends of the united states. therefore. peace and this foreign policy which i have described should be our major goal for the whole area of the near east.
 chiang kaishek and those who work with him. second. the offering of food from our country. under our foodforpeace program. third. some international action to allocate these refugees to those countries that are able to absorb numbers of them. on the traditional fairshare theory which we employed so effectively with other groups of displaced persons and refugees. fourth. again the expression of the bountiful heart of our country in terms of private benefaction for which we are ed throughout the world. and of which i. for one. and many other americans. are very proud. in this case through the organization of the international rescue committee. which has already taken ice of the situation and called it to the attention of the world. and which has the machinery and the ability to utilize such resources as may be made available to it in a really effective way. this idea is  original with me. the senator from south dakota spoke of it. as did the senator from minnesota . but i think it is desirable to have a number of us join in so desirable an objective. both from the standpoint of humanity and our free society and the free world. and from the standpoint of the iron rigor of the struggle in which we are engaged with the communists.
i had in mind the reappointment of conferees for this purpose. i have intention of questioning my colleagues. the senator from alabama is a man of high quality and talent. but unless we first invest the conferees with the kind of iron they need to come back to the senate with the best they can obtain. they have instructionz.
that would be good. i am coming to something which is very important because i agree with the senator. in view of the fact that i feel very deeply that the senators thesis is so much more important than the particular amendment we are considering. i feel the problem should have full consideration. in all fairness. it is  a fact. that the academic board would choose the 50. the academic board would recommend the 50 from some 600. like so many other senators. i  only give an examination with respect to appointment to the academies. but also i go through what is a rather heavy burden of interviewing the first 20 in each one of the categories. i interview about 100 young men every year. i make a personal choice. often in the past i have picked the young man who scored fifth. sixth. or seventh on the examination. because i have feltsince i have served myself. as has the senator and as have so many others-"this man may lead my boy and be responsible for his life." therefore. i wish to be very careful about whom i inate. so my conscience is clear in this regard.
if i may be so bold as to suggest to my colleague. we are trying to get an agreement. i do  believe that descriptions of republican or democratic traps will lead to an agreement. i k the strong views of the senator from oregon on many subjects. and he ks mine. so i wondered if i could confine the discussion to the substantive questions involved. i have presented the senators suggestions. i will do my utmost to see if i can produce some kind of assurance as to the available votes. at least on the republican side. i can say anything about the democratic side. let us remember that approximately 80 democrats voted against the conference report.
i thank the senator from minnesota. madam president. as i have said. the senator from california . who is taking the lead on our side in connection with the letter. is due to return to the chamber in a moment or two.
. i am very grateful to my colleague [mr. keatingi for his remarks along this line. he has been a stanch advocate. as well as a stanch supporter. the interesting thing in the civil rights field is how often one is today the leader and tomorrow the follower. my colleague has his own bills on voting rights and other matters. i have mine. other senators who have cosponsored this amendment have theirs. there is so much to be done in this field that there can be such thing as a leader. we all have the responsibility. and we are all shouldering that responsibility. i wish to sum up and conclude. i shall ask for the yeas and nays on the motion to table. i have discussed that subject with the majority leader. who has graciously assured me that there will be problem on that score. i should like to make it very clear that in presenting this amendment i do  undertake any obligation to present such an amendment with respect to every bill. i have such idea in mind. i feel that when there is a specific situation as clear as this. which spells out the demand for an approach of this character. it must be made. and the weight of responsibility tips in favor of making it. even in the face of the argument that it would result in jeopardizing the bill. especially is that true when the anachronism to which i have referred exists in the law. apparently there is way in which it can be taken out of the law because of the blockade in this chamberso far. at leastin this session of congress on civil rights legislation. also. i am very well aware that there are problems with respect to rule xxii and with respect to cloture. i am very well aware of the fact that we failed in trying to do anything about changing rule xxii. whatever may be argued about tactics. the fundamental point was that a majority of the membership of this body could be and was frustrated in respect to an effort to change rule xxii. that action has been made to stick. so far. i emphasize those words "so far." as there was a revulsion in the countryas there is . among people who never heard about civil rights and were  concerned about negroes. but are deeply concerned about public order and public tranquilityi predict that the same thing will happen in congress if this issue is pressed hard egh. this is one step in the process. all of us will come to a realization of the damaging effect upon our nation and upon its fabric. i have  discussed todayit is so well kn it almost does  need discussionhow the situation in birmingham has been utilized to the full. with every e played upon it to damage us in the eyes of the people of the worldin the eyes of the 2 billion people of the countries of asia and africa. and of all free countries. it hits hard and it is felt. as an effective punch is felt when it is landed in a boxing match. we had better understand that it will. we are paying a tremendous price ecoically. morally. constitutionally. and internationally for segregation and its toleration in our country. i think the struggle must be pressed. i think this is the time to press it. i deeply believe that this body will be aroused. there has been a majority for cloture before. i predict that the next time the question really comes up in a major wayeven. perhaps. on the amendment. if the motion to table is defeatedthe senate will vote for cloture on a civil rights measure. once that is done. the tremendous dam which has held back our country for so long will have been broken.
they certainly do. it broke my heart. and that of former senator ives as well. when we could  stop the dam project. because of the feeling of senators that time marches on. and that this is an extremely important project. there was a greatdeal of flooding in the area. and it had to be done. i thank the senator from arkansas for his intercession.
anything the senator changes would eliminate the idea of copper riveting the amendment into the bill. i hope the senator will remember that. if the president is to make a judgment that there is aggression. that is a quality and quantity judgment. as such as a judgment relating to preparation for aggression. for the life of me i can see what would be gained in terms of the presidents discretion by making the change except to submit the entire section to conference.
i think i have made my views on that point very clearthat we ought to continue doing what we are doing. i am  sitting in the pentagon and judging the strategic and tactical necessities. if i could write a oneline directive. i think it would be that we should do what we are doing. we should continue with our "instruction" in that area. and support it with highly technical assistance. and also incur the danger which is involved. which is a help to the morale of the vietnamese. and do our utmost to bring about a freely elected government there. i can say to the senator that i would send in a new group of instructors. or take out an old group. or increase the number from 15.500 to 16.500. or reduce it to 14.500. i do  k. that is why i have said we should continue to do what we have been doing. that the effort is worthwhile. and that the american people are backing it up. or should be. and that we should determine to cojoin our ideas. as was done in the debate engaged in yesterday. in looking at de gaulles neutralist ideas. and thinking of other ways to deal with the problems. i had feared that unless our ideas were cojoined. the result might be to lead people to feel that the united states was looking for a way out.
. i am  persuaded that that is so. i am confident that a thorough legislative history will be made on the floor of the senate. whatever we do. we shall have to consider many amendments to the bill. and it might be that a reference of the bill to committee. even if it is  riskyand i am  convinced of thatbecause of the placing of other measures ahead of civil rights and because of other bogdowns. would lead to unnecessary delay in terms of the proposed legislation. be that as it may. i respect the senator from oregon. and shall listen with the greatest care to his arguments. i express the hope that we may reach that state and be able to consider his motion shortlyi hope even today. i k that is a vain hope. but i hope we may be able to consider his motion at the earliest possible moment.
madam president. the arrival of prime minister levi eshkol of israel for an official visit to the united states is an event of special significance for many americans. it is for one thing. the first official visit of an israel government leader in the 16 years of that nations independence. it is also a visit which we hope will lead to a further strengthening of the already very friendly ties which have existed between the united states and israel and the beginning of a new era of cooperation between the two countries. peace is the most important objective of our policy in the middle east and u.s. policy in bringing about direct negotiations between the arab states and israel is essential for the success of that effort. in welcoming prime minister eshkol to these shores. we have an opportunity to appreciate also the importance of having a strong viable democracy that has demonstrated its success in establishing a firm united nation under the most difficult natural and manmade conditions. we are glad to have prime minister eshkol as our visitor and we k that he will take back with him the good wishes and warm friendship of the government and people of the united states. a very real friendship exists between the two countries. israel is a very important bastion of the free worlds defense in the eastern mediterranean. i think this visit should be marked very especially. as israels destiny and purpose in the world have so many millions of friends in the united states. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record an editorial entitled "overdue and welcome." from the washington post.
i wish to ask a question. and a rather serious one. i shall support the resolution. because i think we must defend freedom in that area. or else see the balance of a large segment of the population of the world tipped against freedom. the degree of our resistance under the action that may be taken in southeast asia. under the resolution. will determine  only future events in vietnam. but also the freedom of malaysia. india. pakistan. and indonesia. and perhaps even australia and new zealand. my question is this: to the extent that the senator may kand be permitted to discloseare we  implementing the southeast asia collective defense treaty. this treaty has eight countries who are parties to it including the united states--three in the area. the rest in europe. australia. and new zealand. and ourselves. the inclusion of cambodia. laos. and vietnam is by protocol. that is. the protection of the treaty is extended to them. though they are  parties to it. the question i address to the senator is this: are we to assume that the action which the president has taken with respect to reacting to the attack on american vessels is the result of a consultation with our allies who are parties to the southeast asia collective defense treaty. if it is. what are we to assume with respect to the future progress of the action which we authorize under the resolution. which is admittedly a broad action. is it that the president may take all necessary steps. including the use of armed forces. to assist any member or protocol state. which would include laos. cambodia. and vietnam. in the southeast asia collective defense treaty. that may request assistance in defense of its freedom. what i wish to k from the senator is. first: have we consulted with our allies. second. what are we to look to from our allies in the way of assistance. aid. comfort. partnership. and the future implementation of the resolution. it is one thing to stand alone. it is aher thing to stand with seven other countries. three of them in the area. implementing a solemn commitment. which is just as binding on them as it is on us. i am sometimes inclined to agree with those who say that we can be the policeman or guardian of the whole world. we can lead it by the hand. we can be the linch pin. but what are we to accept from the others.
the chilean ecoic and social structure is very different from ours and may need much reform. the chilean ecoy is in the midst of a severe inflation. the distribution of wealth is unequal. landholding is in crying need for modernization. today chiles agriculture occupies onethird of the population. but they produce only oneeighth of the gross national product. while the population increased by 45 percent in the past 15 years. food production was up only 8 percent. due. at least in part. to the ineffectiveness of domestic food production. chile must import $100 million worth of food each year. the relationship of the chilean government to the copper companies. which are largely american owned. was very much an issue in the presidential election. the difference is that the socialists and the communists proposed to nationalize the copper companies. whereas senator freis party proposes only that the copper be refined in chile and sold from there at the best prices available on world markets. in short. we may be facing a major socioecoic revolution of a peaceful and legal character in chile. we may  like everything that senator frei will do. he is a man of great strength and of great character. we must recognize. however. that he is on our side. and the election in chile was a major step toward the fulfillment of the fundamental goals of the alliance for progress and the modernization of latin american society within a democratic framework. therefore. though at times we may be unhappy about some of the things that will be done. let us remember that eduardo frei and his regime deserve the closest ecoic and political support of the united states and of our western allies. his expressed promise of government intervention in the largely americaned copper mines and his alleged willingness to establish diplomatic relations with communist governments may  suit our instincts or desires and we reserve the right to strongly disagree. . i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a magnificent editorial by ambassador harry f. guggenheim. ambassador to cuba. himself a member of the family which founded the copper and nitrate industries in chile. in which he takes the same line that i have been stating here in support of the new chilean government. i ask unanimous consent also that editorials from the long island newsday and the new york times. as well as articles from the two papers calling attention to the implications of the chilean elections may be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
to me there is juridical issue. the president. as commander in chief. has the right to dispatch troops to protect the interests of the united states anywhere in the world. that fact is ackledged completely. under the doctrine of protecting that interest. the president definitely has the right to reach out wherever it is necessary. when our ships were attacked in tonkin bay. we responded by attacking back. the president has that right because he is commander in chief. but we understand that present events can lead to major international war. and the president should have the advice and consent of congress. joining its will and that of the american people to his. in order to keep pace-
. i find myself in the same position as does the senator from ohio with respect to the intentions and views of the senator from oregon. i. too. will welcome the opportunity to debate this question and to enlarge our views. i think this is a most constructive exercise. after all. the batting average of the senator from oregon has been rather high with many of his amendments. so i oppose this one because i deeply believe it is in the interest of our nation to oppose it. i happen to k something of those countries. i have been in them. i sponsored the first grainaidtoindia measure. providing for 200 million bushels of grain. to save india from starvation. i k something of the governmental operations in pakistan. from contacts with friends who hold high diplomatic and other positions. i have been there. as i have been in india. let us :emember that we are dealing with the tremendous thrust of communist china. when i was in indiaand the senator from kentucky . who will follow me. can verify this factecoic progress in india was measured in terms of ecoic progress in communist china. if india was  doing as well as communist china. there was a tendency on the part of some to want to follow the lead of communist china. the question of whether the chinese worked harder than the indians in making that ecoic progress did  seem to be considered too much. second. we are  engaged in asia. and there are many american casualties there. the struggle is  only in south vietnam. but it involves all of southeast asia. though we may  be able to tell from the people of south vietnam whether they want us to do what we are doing. we can tell from the great majority of the millions of people in southeast asia that they believe in what we are doing. india is where the bulk of the population of that part of asia is. i do  believe that. if we cut off aid to india and pakistan. the attitude as between pakistan and india would change. there might be a change for the worse. because the situation might then be ripe for demagogs who would be urging a different policy. bad as we may think the situation is. it could be a great deal worse. much as we may dislike something that shastri or ayub khan havedone. so it would be shortsighted and would be working against our own interests to make this cut. if we are to maintain any position whatever there. if all of asia is  to be overthrown by communist china. it will be prevented only if this great population base is retained on the side of freedom. when that is compared to what is at stake in a cut of this character. i do  believe that it adds up at all. i hope very much that the senate. particularly at this time. and in this crisis. will  take such an illadvised action as to deprive us of all hope of a population balance in favor of freedom by jeopardizing it in any way whatever.
 of the university of buffalo. dr. clifford c. furnas. it is also a fact that on the niagara frontier. 45 corporations are doing business in 14 latin american nations. it is this spirit of cooperation between the two areas which has lead to western new yorks participation in the partners of the alliance program. august 10.* 1965 this partnership is part of a new. expanding program of the alliance whereby many different states in the united statessome 26 to datehave undertaken joint. cooperative programs with partner countries in latin america with the coordination and advice of aid. i salute this effort on the part of new york state and look forward to its success and growth in the future. i ask unanimous consent that the summary report may be printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
. an editorial which appeared in the february 5. 1966. edition of the washington post points up. as i have done in my vietnam report. the close parallel between the current u.s. policy in vietnam and the truman doctrine. then. as . the critics felt that the doctrine was aggressive and open ended. that it would lead to and escalate wars. but. the doctrine was applied with caution and restraint. and it was "a peacemaking and  a warmaking doctrine." i call the attention of my colleagues to this editorial and ask unanimous consent to have it printed in the record.
. this amendment deals with the problems of people who have  yet qualified for social securitypeople like those. for example. who were released when a large automobile plant closed in senator hartkes state. or when certain types of mining were abandoned in the catskill mountains of my own state. or on the mesabe iron range in the state of minnesota. when miners with certain types of skills became obsolete. the amendment is an attempt to help such persons until such time as they become eligible for social security. i have discussed this matter with both the manager of the bill and the miity members of the committee handling the bill. and it is my understanding that what they are agreeable to doing is taking this matter to conference in order to consider it there. it is my clear understanding. which i  state to the senate. that if this provision is found to be too expensive a proposition. they will consider it. and perhaps we will be able to do something about it in some other way. but if it is found  to be materially expensive. they will do something about including it. the time at which these people can be covered. of course. can be determined by the conference report. and. as with all compensation. perhaps even less than the extended compensation provided by this bill can be provided. my own estimate. based on the best information i have been able to obtain. is that about 35 percent of the longterm unemployed are people in this age bracket. but that probably  more than 20.000 of those le americans would be affected at any one time. i doubt that a more appealing group of americans in need of assistance. under the circumstances in which they are placed. could be found. i understand perfectly that this is an effort to seize the committee of a problem in the conference. if it can be worked out in conference.. it will be a very blessed thing. if it can. if it is found too expensive. then i will understand and those affected will understand that the matter can be acted upon here and .
 of the united states. the first congressional sessions were held during 178990. and our departments of government. including the treasury department. were first organized. the second depicts castle clinton as the last of a series of forts which. from the time of the dutch settlement in 1624. guarded lower manhattan. and was headquarters for gen. winfield scott during the war of 1812. the third depicts the american museum of immigration  being constructed to complete the base of the statue of liberty national monument. which will tell the story of the making of the united states by those who came to our shores from all over the world. all this indicates that the medal will look very beautiful and splendid. i am advised that the gross sale of the liberty series of medallions issued as of july 31. 1966. has exceeded a sum slightly in excess of $129.500 since the first medal was placed on sale at the federal hall national memorial on constitution day. the new bill calls for a total issue of  more than 255.000 medals to be struck over a period ending december 21. 1968. this conforms to the number of each of the medals previously authorized by congress for creation by the department of the treasury. the new york city national shrines board will continue as previously authorized to supervise the sale of the ellis island commemorative medals. as well as the others in the series remaining unsold. completion of the three shrines had originally been estimated by the national park service to cost $5.2 million. of this sum congress had authorized $2.6 million. or onehalf of the first estimated cost. leaving an equal amount to be raised if possible by the new york city national shrines advisory board and cooperating groups. continued rising construction and labor costs have  raised the estimated cost total to $6.667.822 according to the current report of the national park service dated july 29. 1966. the report also states that to date the national park service has received from the board $741.369 of donated funds. i believe the enactment of this bill will be of material aid in achieving completion of these great historic landmarks. i hope action will be taken promptly so that the board may continue in its work to raise funds from the sale of liberty series commemorative medals. which is certain to be stimulated and increased by the offering for sale of the proposed related fourth ellis island medal.
 i strongly feel that we are in danger of allowing ourselves to be distracted by monetary arguments. we k very well that $500.000 is a great deal of money. we also k very well that $500.000 is  a material change or increase in a $10 billion bill when the measure has to go to conference. as a matter of basic responsibility. the amount contained in my amendment should be apportioned with some intelligence to the object that is sought to be attained. the senator from rhode island has very kindly given me the basic factual lead on this question. it would make a mockery of the senate and the process of amendment to septeniber-. 27. 19 661 move to increase the amount by $1. which is all i would have to do if i wanted to proceed along that line. let us  be distracted by this monetary argument. we k very well the reason for the cut the senator from rhode island argued that we are giving the department ice that congress does  want the guidelines. i believe the guidelines are right. and that is the basis of my argument. we ought to give the department an opportunity to carry out its obligations to enforce title vi.
madam president. i call to the attention of the senate the fact that the chilean government is about to consummate a partnership with private enterprise with regard to the copper mines in chile. this is an entirely arms length contract transaction that will be of tremendous help to chile without nationalizing their mines. as was done. as everyone ks. so damagingly during the mexican revolution. we ought to ice the tremendous achievement of president frei in this regard and the american companies involved and that they are entitled to american support and applause. madam president. i ask unanimous consent that an editorial entitled "chile breaks new ground." published in the new york times on october 12. 1966. be printed at this point in the record.
i welcome the leadership which the senator from kentucky has taken in this matter. i hope that this is a good precursor for the future. the tradition of the senate is that senators lead on issues. the question of party regularity and party discipline. fortunately for the people of this country. is interpreted in that sense. especially on an issue of foreign policy. bipartisanship developed on this side of the aisle under the inspired leadership of arthur vandenberg. it is. therefore. a source of tremendous satisfaction to me that a senator of such skill and experience as the senator from kentucky. generally considered in the country to be moderate in his views. has taken the position he has upon this matter. the senator from kentucky inspires real confidence in the country by his espousal of this cause. i. too. should like to address myself to the remarks made by the senator from illis . it is  easy to come into this body as a new senator and plunge immediately into the great affairs of the world. especially when ones colleague is the miity leader. but. we can keep quiet here. the senator from illis represents. in part. 8 or 9 million people in his stateperhaps it is 10 millionand those people demand representation. - to expect the conventions of the past to be observed. where a new member is seen and  heard. is simply denying to constituents the representation to which they are entitled. the senator from illis is  a man of that kind. he came to the senate to do a job in highest conscience. and he is doing it. i have been uplifted and i think that the country will be uplifted by the eloquence of his words and the depth of his understanding as a truly enlightened american business leader. speaking for myself. with leave of the senator from kentucky. let me say that there are three important points which stand out as discussed by the senator from kentucky. on which i should like to ask him some questions. the first is on the question of immunity from all kinds of prosecution. which is unique in this treaty. is it  a fact. i ask the senator. that we are inclined to be myopic on this question. to give a relative example. when we talk about the veto being exercised by the russians in the united nations. is it  a fact. from the senators own experience. that this country would  have approved membership of the united states in the united nations. or agreed to its charter. if the standing. permanent veto had  been incorporated therein. is it  a fact that we would  send our people into the soviet union. unless they had complete immunity. because we would be afraid that they would be picked up on some sensical chargesuch as the senator mentionedand they could be put in jail for life.
 to appoint a bipartisan special task force. under the chairmanship of a most distinguished american. to visit vietnam in connection with the september elections. the presence of such a group under a really distinguished chairman would dramatically impress upon the south vietnamese and the world in general the gravity of the issues at stake in the elections. and the seriousness of the american people in seeing that the elections are free and begin a process of transformation which will lead to peace in southeast asia and military disengagement for the united states.
i wish to ask a question. and a rather serious one. i shall support the resolution. because i think we must defend freedom in that area. or else see the balance of a large segment of the population of the world tipped against freedom. the degree of our resistance under the action that may be taken in southeast asia. under the resolution. will determine  only future events in vietnam. but also the freedom of malaysia. india. pakistan. and indonesia. and perhaps even australia and new zealand. my question is this: to the extent that the senator may kand be permitted to discloseare we  implementing the southeast asia collective defense treaty. this treaty has eight countries who are parties to it including the united statesthree in the area. the rest in europe. australia. and new zealand. and ourselves. the inclusion of cambodia. laos. and vietnam is by protocol. that is. the protection of the treaty is extended to them. though they are  parties to it. the question i address to the senator is this: are we to assume that the action which the president has taken with respect to reacting to the attack on american vessels is the result of a consultation with our allies who are parties to the southeast asia collective defense treaty. if it is. what are we to assume with respect to the future progress of the action which we authorize under the resolution. which is admittedly a broad action. is it that the president may take all necessary steps. including the use of armed forces. to assist any member or protocol state. which would include laos. cambodia. and vietnam. in the southeast asia collective defense treaty. that may request assistance in defense of its freedom. what i wish to k from the senator is. first: have we consulted with our allies. second. what are we to look to from our allies in the way of assistance. aid. comfort. partnership. and the future implementation of the resolution. it is one thing to stand alone. it is aher thing to stand with seven other countries. three of them in the area. implementing a solemn commitment. which is just as binding on them as it is on us. i am sometimes inclined to agree with those who say that we can be the policeman or guardian of the whole world. we can lead it by the hand. we can be the linch pin. but what are we to accept from the others.
. i ask unanimous consent that the testimony of harry marley. chairman of the legislation committee of the metropolitan development association of syracuse and odaga county before the subcommittee on natural resources of the house committee on government operations be printed at this point in the record.
continuing. with respect to public works projects. the senator would give the director of the office of emergency planning. the right to cut off. i am somewhat concerned about leaving highways out. because everything else is included. i assume that would mean all kinds of public buildings. as well as dams and similar structures. but i ice that the senator excludes highways and includes recreational facilities. may i ask the senator what he would say about post offices.
. we are all aware of the struggles of the polish people. the land itself has been partitioned and subjugated. but the polish people have never lost their national identity or love for freedom. while polands government looks to the east for instruction. its citizens have traditionally nurtured the precepts of the west. it was on may 3 in 1791. only 2 years after the adoption of our own constitution. that the first polish government committed itself to the principle of the sovereignty of the people. while an authoritarian government may abolish a national holiday within its borders. it can eradicate the tradition of freedom from those who carry on the ancient polish national yearning for freedom and selfdetermination. also. 1968 marks the 25th anniversary of the death of gen. wladyslaw sikorski. an outstanding military leader who lead the polish resistance during the second world war. at a time when antisemitism is again heard in poland. jews everywhere are particularly grateful to the memory of general sikorski for his participation in "action zegoda." a program directed and financed by the exiled polish government in london to assist the entrapped jewish population on the continent. finally. it would certainly be remiss  to comment on the spirit of freedom the poles have sought to preserve in eastern europe. in the face of both nazi germany and communist russia.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record an article published in the new york times of july 29. 1968. it is a most eloquent discussion of the returning negro vietnam veterans and was written by thomas a. johnson. i have been deeply interested for some time in the returning vietnam veteran. i believe it absolutely essential that these americans have the opportunity for a full and meaningful life after their return to civilian society. those veterans who are returning to disadvantaged areas present american society with unique problems and challenges. and they also offer to america a great opportunity for leadership and service. regrettably. too often. this opportunity has  been realized and hope has turned into bitterness. to paraphrase one of the veterans mr. johnson interviewed. many black americans who fought in vietnam. hoping that america would changewould change because of their own commitment and willingness to bear the burdens of military serviceare finding change at all. the resulting disillusionment is  only a great danger to our society. much more important. it is an indictment of it. in concluding his article. mr. johnson writes: more than 100.000 negroes are back from vietnam era service. but they are still black. and this. in america today. still seems to be the major factor in determining what will happen to them. we can  permit this situation to continue. i commend this provocative article to the attention of senators and the american people. it does  make for happy reading. however. it will perhaps stimulate that massive program of public and of private action which will lead to the establishment of a society in which all veteransmatter their racewill have the chance to live in full freedom and opportunity. and to utilize their talents and skills to the fullest extent possible.
all i say is that $10 million is de minimus. as i said on this point when there were fewer members present on the floor. the poor of my cityand i warrant it is true of all of our big cities. whether it is seattle or chicago or any other big citywill say. "if that is the best you can do. senator javits. forget it." let us grow up. and have some dignity about this. we do  have to go to the house with a tin cup in our hand. if that is the best i can do. i am willing to do it. and i k my people will back me 95 to 5. and i am sure the poor of every city will say it-"if that is the best you can do. forget it."
. the correspondence deals with concern as to what kind of arrangements and agreements have been entered into. arrangements and agreements negotiated by the executive branch without the concurrence of the senate. what is this contingency plan that we hear so much about with respect to thailand. what are our troops actually engaged in there. what might they be engaged in. u.s. troops are in there. as we all k. so. acting in a forehanded way. as the senator is. is he  rather than imagining an alarm. actually seeing a state of facts which might lead in that direction.
. we all realize that when it comes to dams and waterworks and similar projects. other states. which may be very thinly populated. do need that kind of assistance. so. too. in mass transportation we need that kind of assistance and need that kind of flexibility. i should like to join with my colleague. it seems to me very clear that secretary of transportation would last very long who would deny the needs of any small state or small city which was ready to receive the money and use it effectively. if he used this discretionary authority in favor of new york. chicago. or los angeles. i trust that the senate may legislate effectively and efficiently by rejecting the amendment.
i wish to ask a question. and a rather serious one. i shall support the resolution. because i think we must defend freedom in that area. or else see the balance of a large segment of the population of the world tipped against freedom. the degree of our resistance under the action that may be taken in southeast asia. under the resolution. will determine  only future events in vietnam. but also the freedom of malaysia. india. pakistan. and indonesia. and perhaps even australia and new zealand. my question is this: to the extent that the senator may kand be permitted to discloseare we  implementing the southeast asia collective defense treaty. this treaty has eight countries who are parties to it including the united statesthree in the area. the rest in europe. australia. and new zealand. and ourselves. the inclusion of cambodia. laos. and vietnam is by protcol. that is. the protection of the treaty is extended to them. though they are  parties to it. the question i address to the senator is this: are we to assume that the action which the president has taken with respect to reacting to the attack on american vessels is the result of a consultation with our allies who are parties to the southeast asia collective defense treaty. if it is. what are we to assume with respect to the future progress of the action which we authorize under the resolution. which is admittedly a broad action. is it that the president may take all necessary steps. including the use of armed forces. to assist any member or protocol state. which would include laos. cambodia. and vietnam. in the southeast asia collective defense treaty. that may request asaistance in defense of its freedom. what i wish to k from the senator is. first: have we consulted with our allies. second. what are we to look to from our allies in the way of assistance. aid. comfort. partnership. and the future implementation of the resolution. it is one thing to stand alone. it is aher thing to stand with seven other countries. three of them in the area. implementing a solemn commitment. which is just as binding on them as it is on us. i am sometimes inclined to agree with those who say that we can be the policeman or guardian of the whole world. we can lead it by the hand. we can be the linch pin. but what are we to accept from the others.
. i ask unanimous consent that the lead article of the special london ecoist survey of the prospects for european unity. entitled "the phoenix is shortsighted." and an editorial entitled "threat to world trade." published in sundays new york times. be printed in the record.
. does the senator k what a friend of mine told me the other day. he said. "i do  k where narcotics are available. however. my 12yearold son can lead me to where narcotics are available." the kids are buying it every day in the streets.
we are  on an uncharted sea. i hope we find the port. but i should like all of us to bear in mind the heavy responsibility we bear. we had $1.5 billion which the administration and everyone else had agreed to for a 2year term which occurred long before the incidents into which this amendment will come into play. and hence the bill we had in way interfered with an ultimate plan. which would be senator ribicoffs plan. but i do think it very important that all senators. as we consider this amendment on its merits. which is the will of the senate. bear in mind the possibilityi think it is  only a possibility but a probability as wellthat what we are doing is putting weights of lead around this measure which will sink it. i intend. as a senators responsibility. in good faith. to go ahead with the debate and to vote my judgment upon this measure. mally. we are all very unhappy with tabling measures. i suppose i offer as many amendments as any other senator. and i do  like to have the "sudden death" motion pulled on me. but in this caseand in other cases where it is pertinenti thought it was proper. because the ribicoff proposal was entitled to deliberate judgment. really intensive committee consideration. on a longrange basis and  to be judged on the merits summarily. which is what we are going to do . so.  in respect of this bill just to put him on the spot in a sterile exercise which will only be costly to the children of the united states and to ody else. i have the deep disquiet that. as i have said. we may be hanging weights of lead around this bill which will sink it in a sea of $20 billion for 12 or 14 years. instead of $1.5 billion for 2 years.
. although i support the committees $5.5 increase over the budget request for lead based paint poison prevention act (public law 91695) i have cosponsored this amendment to increase the appropriation froh $7.5 million to $15 million. lead exposure is one of new york citys major pediatric problems. it is estimated that 450.000 apartment units in new york city are in such a state of disrepair that a child living in them will be exposed to the hazard of lead paint poisoning. currently. approximately 120.000 children are living in these dwellings and its is estimated that 6.000 to 8.000 of these children have significant levels of lead in their blood. almost all areas of new york city report some lead poisoning cases because any dwelling with lead painted interior surfaces can become a source of toxic lead. at the present time. we have high incidence areas in the south bronx. th manhattan. central brooklyn. and the rockaway section of queens. these areas represent once fine neighborhoods where high quality lead paint had been used extensively. health officials in new york city banned the use of high content lead paint on indoor surfaces in 1959. however. dangerous buildings containing toxic levels of lead were generally built before world war ii. it is in such older buildings a young child gains access to paint which contains high levels of lead. deaths reported due to lead poisoning have dropped sharply over the part 10 years in new york city. there were 12 in 1959 and two in 1970. at the same time. the number of lead poisoning cases reported to the health department has increased over the last 10 years from 171 in 1959 to 727 in 1969. in 1970. 2.649 cases were discovered. in the first 5 months of this year. there have been 669 cases. by our current definition any child with 0.06milligram percent of lead in his blood is considered to be a "case." this value is accepted as a significantly abmal level of lead in the blood. these children as a rule do  have symptoms. but this level of lead in the blood does indicate two things: first. that the child has access to lead in his. environment and. second. that the child is taking the lead into his system. probably by eating. this level of blood lead. therefore. signals a potentially harmful situation. current kledge on lead poisoning leaves much to be desired. the minimal level of chronic lead exposure which can cause damage to a childs nervous system is  kn. the 0.06milligram percent level represents a borderline beyond which danger may lie. when a child with 0.06milligram percent is located. it is important that he be brought under medical supervision and his surroundings carefully examined for leadcontaining substances which could on further ingestion cause a toxic level to occur. the new york city bureau of lead poisoning control annual budget is approximately $2.2 million. it is based on a projection of 100.000 children tested. 2.500 of whom are found "positive." it is divided into three distinct functions: first. finding and testing children for elevated levels of blood lead. second. testing dwelling units for "leaded" surfaces. third. case followup and program administration.
. i have heard what my colleague from new york has brought out. this is a matter of longstanding importance and interest to me and the long island community. there is a very widely and strongly divided view in the area. and i agree that the study should  be loaded or prejudiced in either direction. i hope very much that the colloquy will  be taken to be any approval or disapproval of any course. whatever course is best for the development of the natural resources concerned. in which the community has a profound interest. and in which it must have the freedom to express itself. will be most desirable. provided we have the basic facts authoritatively. i gather that that is what my colleague is driving at. and i thoroughly agree.
 of colgatepalmolive co.. as a major 1972 campaign by that company to help five of americas leading youth groups reach their current goals. the boy scouts of america. girl scouts of the u.s.a.. boys clubs of america. girls clubs of america. and the camp fire girls will share in the $250.000 contribution following a national vote to be conducted by the company in early 1972. these groups have a combined membership of more than 9 million. . the "help young america" program marks the first time that these five leading youth groups have joined into a single youth promotion effort. in anncing the program mr. foster stated: the colgatepalmolive company is pleased to initiate this cooperative program between american business and american youth. our aims are commonto help our young people help themselves to a better america. too often the progress potential of our ambitious youth is lost sight of today. amid the concern for the problems of this generation. we. at colgate. hope that this program will help lead these young people to achieve a better tomorrow. we want. also. to focus national interest on their needs and to suggest new avenues for others to follow in supporting the goals of young america. these stated 1972 goals of the youth groups are: boy scouts: "to help todays boypower become tomorrows manpower." girl scouts: "to help more girls in their growingup years." boys clubs: "to help guide 1.000.000 boys." girls clubs: "to open more club centers for girls." camp fire girls: "to help more girls become better citizens." mrs. nixon commended mr. foster and the colgatepalmolive co. for "this inative and sweeping approach to the encouragement of constructive youth activities." and applauded the concept of uniting the five groups in a common effort. she said: most significantly. because each participating organization is given the opportunity to grow and expand through its own creative powers at its desired pace. i am especially impressed with this very kind of freedormone which encourages increased initiative within a young persons personally chosen group while contributing to the vitality of the entire society as well. i feel that such an inative program as this one conceived by the colgatepalmolive co.. merits our every recognition because it points up the vital role enlightened business leadership can play in our society. hopefully. it will be an example to other major corporations to contribute to our nations social needs by way of similar programs.
. i think the senator from delaware has taken a very fine initiative. as a cosponsor of the amendment i am very grateful to the senator from delaware for taking the lead in helping my state and i believe all others. i hope the amendment is agreed to.
. mark twains celebrated response to the publication of his obituary-"the reports of my death are grossly exaggerated"comes to mind over the impression spread around that the overseas private investment corporatioicwas on the verge of "bankruptcy" because of chiles expropriation of american copper properties 18 months ago. in the aftermath of the confiscatory wave of july 1971. some felt that opic. launched a scant 6 months before. would never weather the storm. as the senate sponsor of opic. i am happy to report precisely the contrary. an article in the december 14 journal of commerce reviews opics tribulations over the past 2 years and forecasts a sunnier future than is generally realized. since opic programs will be under review by both the house foreign affairs committee and the senate foreign relations multinational corporations subcommittee in the near future. i ask unanimous consent that the journal of commerce article be inserted in the recoad at this point:
. this amendment also refers to a similar problem. it proposes an authorization of $500.000 to the commission to take care of the costs of states in handling their recordkeeping functions under existing law. there is a good deal of recordkeeping by the states. many states have tight budgets with respect to paperwork. we are causing an emous number of reports to be filed. i understand the committee on rules and administration considered $100.000 and decided it was de minimis and did  bother with it. therefore. after consulting with the senator from kentucky and the senator from nevada i came up with a figure of $500.000 to be authorized. i might also add that this was discussed with phillip hughes and he felt that $500.000 was  an unreasonable sum for this purpose. of course. the committee on appropriations will determine the exact amount needed. but we should have some type of authorization. i should add that federal money would help get greater cooperation between the states and the commission and would most likely lead states to follow federal procedures more closely than they do .
. at a time of testing of the issue of d6tente with the soviet union as a result of the developments in the hostilities and ceasefire in the middle east. it is pertinent to recall an editorial which appeared last month in the september 13 wall street journal. this lead editorial has as its thesis the proposition that denial of liberties to its own citizens by the u.s.s.r. is a proper matter of concern to the united states in any detente or negotiations with the soviets. as the editorial points out: it is  in the nature of men or governments to be beastly within the family and trustworthy outside it. i ask unanimous consent that the editorial be printed in the record.
. i am so pleased that congress is recognizing by this bill a fine legislator. a highly patriotic american. and a very personal friend of mine. jim fulton. i served with jim fulton in the house of representatives from 1947 to 1954. i shared his life as he shared mine. including attendance at my wedding in 1947. and through all the political campaigns and vicissitudes of life. he had been a constant friend to me. to mrs. javits. and to our children. i k as well as anyone the unbelievable dedication and warm humanity he brought to his position as a representative in the congress. he literally loved in a most personal sense the men. women and children of his district and served them with the devotion of a friend and father as well as that of a congressman. it is good that the congress shows by this bill that it does  forget its own. the bill was ordered to be engrossed for a third reading. was read the third time and passed. as follows: s. 2535 be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled. that the portion of the project for flood protection on chartiers creek in allegheny county. pennsylvania. authorized by section 204 of the flood control act of 1965 (public law 89298). ishereby designated as the "james g. fulton flood protection project". any reference to such project in any law. regulation. map. document. record. or other paper of the united states shall be held to be a reference to the james 0. fulton flood protection project.
. at the end of 1973. mark trice annced his retirement as secretary to the miity. a post he had held with distinction since 1950. his retirement marked the end of a 53year career in the senate in various posts starting as a page in 1916. all of us on the republican side of the aisle will miss him. he was always patient. helpful and dedicated to serving the republicans. the senate. and the country in the highest manner. mark has indicated that he will be active in his retirement and he may even practice law on a parttime basis. i wish him and his lovely wife margaret the best of everything and k he will continue to lead an active and productive life.
. this june 24. the fort wadsworth committee for a "living national park memorial" will hold a congressional medal of ho day and unity day interfaith ceremony to commemorate congressional medal winners and members of the armed services. i ask unanimous consent that a copy of the letter from the committee to me discussing the ceremony and a list of the committee members be printed in the record.
. as the comprehensive plan or the cooperative agreement could reach the issue anyhow. if they existin other words. if there exists either a plan or an agreement between the state and the federal governmenti do  see why we should mandate hunting. fishing. and trapping insofar as public land is concerned on individual states but. rather. we should leave it to the practice and disposition of the people of that state. i would be greatly interested to have senator stevens views on that.
. the most important function of the agency will be representation of consumer interest before federal agencies and courtssections 7 and 8. in formal adjudicatory or rulemaking proceedings under the administrative procedure act. the cpa is authorized to intervene as a party. in such cases the agency will be subject to the same rules as any other person who is a party to the proceedings. the act directs cpa to refrain from participating in such proceedings unless intervention is necessary to adequately represent the interests of consumers. when a federal agency considers a decision affecting the interests of consumers outside a formal adjudicatory or rulemaking proceeding. the act gives the cpa the right to submit data and other relevant information or arguments. such submission will be in either written or oral form and presented in such a way as  to hinder the agencys ability to act expeditiously. this means that if the lead tinsel manufacturers have a meeting with the commissioner of fda on the schedule for removing lead tinsel from the market. the administrator of cpa is entitled to present his views on the subject to fda officials. the section does  give him the right to be present at the tinsel manufacturers meeting and argue his case at the same time they do.
. today i fossils of great significance to the science which creates a harmonious atmosphere introduce legislation to provide for the of paleontology are being continually unin which to carry forth the national ob- establishment of the hagerman fossil earthed by nature and scientists in the jective of increasing indian selfdeter- beds national monument in the state of hagerman valley. these hagerman pliomination through greater indian control idaho. the hagerman fossil beds area -cene fauna and flora sites are considered over these two important agencies. in southcentral idaho contains pliocene to be among the largest and best preto resolve this conflict. i am. intro- . fauna fossils dating back 3.5 million served of their kind in the world. ducing. this piece of legislation. it will years. the area received international the first kn discovery of fossil achieve equity for the indian em- attention following the unearthing of ex- sites near the town of hagerman ocployee by allowing him to retire earlier cellent specimens of small zebralike curred in 1900 by a local settler. mr. elmer cook. he informed dr. h. t. stearns of the u.s. geological survey. who later forwarded a small collection of fossil horses to the national museum of natural history in washington. d.c. from 1929 to 1931 expeditions from the smithsonian institution worked to remove fossils of zebralike horses. about the size of a dog. which appeared in the primary fossil bed of the hagerman site. the national museum of natural history has used these fossil discoveries in a beautiful museum mural and continues to store a great amount of the hagerman fossils. the smithsonian discoveries touched off international reaction among paleontologists. since then. more than 130 species of animals. plus numerous plants. have been discovered from the 310 registered paleontological sites located in the valley. since 1958 there have been over 100 scientific papers published concerning specimens discovered from the sites studies of the fauna in the area show that collectively it is one of the largest and best preserved late pliocene fossil finds in the world. with a great diversity among plant and animal groups. the abundance of fossil remains and the completeness of the stratigraphic record make the area most valuable to the entire field of paleontology for further study. the excellent preservation of the hagerman fossils make them invaluable -in defining trends in many lines of plant and animal development. unfortunately. however. the fossil area itself has  received adequate protection. abuse by motorcycles and offroad vehicles continues to damage fossils. the weather and amateur collectors also take their toll. but the greatest possibility for damage to the area comes from commercial interest. in 1966. two 4foot pipelines were constructed across the fossil beds to pump irrigation water from the snake river to a farming development on the plateau above. the possibility of undirected expansion in this area could  only destroy fossils in direct contact with such pipelines.but also add to the destruction of needed ground cover to hold down present wind erosion in the area. the hagerman fossil beds could make an important inclusion in the national park system for several reasons: the pliocene epoch is  being represented within the system at this time. there is a need to properly protect these resources. and there are great opportunities to interpret these fossils. in a february 1974 study. the national park service proposed various alternative means for managing the fossil sites of hagerman valley. the legislation i am introducing today closely follows one of these alternatives. this measure will provide for the inclusion of all the significant fossil sites. enclosing about 5.500 acres. into what will be kn as the hagerman fossil beds national monurnient. provisions are made for continued research. for visitor facilities. and for the display and interpretation of specimens uncovered within the monument. the legislation specifically mentions scenic easements. which the park service plans to use on the east side of the river to create a buffer tone the entire length of the monumentwhich will be on the west side of the river. under mal circumstances. if we were discussing the creation of only this national monument i would  condone the use of scenic easements over land which is  directly a part of the monument. but the issue of hagerman valley is  "mal circumstances" and we are  talking about only this one monument. it is indeed only a part of a larger concept. i spoke earlier of the great bonneville flood and the effect it had on the hagerman valley.  only did it help to expose the hagerman fossils. it also created the spectacular box canyon. site of the worlds 11th largest natural spring of crystal pure water. more than any other section of the hagerman valley. the geology of box canyon tells us the story of what happened during that flood. it also created the blue heart spring and sand springs and the fields of melon gravel. the thousand springs are the massive outlet of several hidden water sources which reappear along the high cliffs overlooking the snake river and tumble down in thousands of frothy. miniature falls. and so it is that the entire valley is a vast geological storehouse. and it is all of these natural wonders that i would hope to see preserved and protected. for various administrative and ecoic reasons. it would  be feasible at this time to propose one. overall monument which would include all of these wonders. spaced throughout continuing private farmlands and commercial enterprises. therefore. the matter must be approached on a piecemeal basis. i have already introduced legislation to make the stillpristine upper reaches of box canyon a portion of the wild and scenic rivers system. and today i propose to include the hagerman fossil sites in the national park system. hopefully. someday all these areas can be protected and coordinated to tell the story of the third largest flood in the history of the worldthe great bonneville flood. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill appear at this point in the record.
. i introduce an amendment to s. 3839. the land and water conservation fund act. which would allow the national park service to accept property for the franklin d. roosevelt national historic site which is adjacent to the original hyde park property but was  part of that property. i ask unanimous consent that the amendment be printed in the record together with a statement from the park service describing the property.
. i promised the senator from missouri i would only take a minute. and i shall. the whole story about this amendment is that it is intended to facilitate the acquisition of an additional piece of property. some 16 acres in size. to be added to the historic site at the home of franklin d. roosevelt at hyde park. n.y. the authority is needed by the department of the interior. because the previous authorization related only to land which was formerly in the roosevelt estate. this land is being donated by a neighbor. mr. gerald morgan. jr.. of richmond. va.. and in order to vail itself of that donation. which the interior department says is highly desirable to make more accessible to visitors the franklin d. roosevelt memorial site. it needs this added authority. i have been requested. accordingly. by the department of the interior to offer the amendment. the full story is contained in the co1cgressional record of december 12.1974. at page 39419. i hope very much the amendment will be agreed to.
. i introduce a bill which would allow the national park service to accept property for the franklin d. roosevelt national historic site which is adjacent to the original hyde park property but was  part of that property. i ask unanimous consent that the bill be printed in the record together with a statement from the park service describing the property.
. i end by pointing out that we have settled many bills this way. and they looked just as insoluble as this one. it has always worked out best for all concerned. that has happened in education. it has happened in manpower. it has happened in legal services. and in other bills. i believe the effort. the collaborative effort. of that kind. with the white house and the congress getting together on practicalities. is clearly indicated . i hope that this substitute may lead in that direction.
the march 8. 1975. edition of the new republic contains an extensive lead editorial entitled "mideast peace." the editorial was written by the chairman of the editorial board. martin peretz. i believe that this editorial contains some very useful and significant contributions to the debate on mideast policy for professor peretz has addressed the key issues in a manner which helps to shed light on the fundamental problems. accordingly. . i ask unanimous consent that pertinent excerpts from the editorial be printed in the record. where it will be available to the congress and the public.
the bill has been cleared on both sides. it is a bill to provide for the acceptance by the united states of certain additional land at the franklin d. roosevelt national historic site in the state of new york.
. it is  5 years since executive reorganization plan  3 set up the environmental protection agency as a separate agency within the executive branch. this. in my view. was a most important development in our era. and it should continue to be regarded as an agency with a mission as important to our national wellbeing as any that exists. in a way. its establishment has ushered in a new era in protection of our citizens from harms that sometimes are  immediately apparent. but that if left unrestricted by public concern could surely lead to grave danger to irreplaceable environment. the epa has begun to mature over these past 5 years. as has congress on environmental matters. when the clean air act of 1975 was passed. we barely stopped to consider the feasibility of implementation or the long lead times necessary to complete the cleanup. similar thoughts pervaded our passage of the water pollution control amendments in we  k that cleanup of our environment. principally the air of our cities and the water in our lakes and rivers. will take time and cost money. but that cleanup is clearly worth the price. and it is a cleanup that must be continued with vigor and haste so that an entire generation of americans do  lose the benefits of this grand and beautiful nation. abatement of pollution is only the first step in environmental protection. and the epa is just  beginning to move toward areas of environmental concern that are equally serious. but perhaps  quite as iceable. i will cite three of these areas that i consider to be of primary concern. and as to which i believe the epa should devote major attention within its statutory limits. and about which congress should continue to investigate to determine whether further legislative initiative may be necessary. se se control is the only completely new epa program activity. there being program in existence at all prior to 1970. in just a few years since the se control act of 1972 was enacted. se control is beginning to be established as a major environmental concern and priority. epa has laid a solid foundation with extensive documentation of the adverse health and welfare effects of se. proceeding from this basis to regulate in general priority or order the major sources of se. it has proposed or issued regulations for trucks. air compressors. railroads. and various regulations for aircraft se control through requirements for aircraft techogy and flight procedures. much more must be done to alleviate the burdens caused by se polluting machinery and equipment which affect millions of persons each year. both on the job and in the home people are bombarded daily with high decibel cacaphony that is  only deleterious to their health. but seriously adverse to their enjoyment of life. this. as is air pollution. is primarily a problem of the cities. and it must be tackled as fully and comprehensively. there is doubt that our techogy can produce quieter products and machines: directing modern techogy in this direction will make our factories more pleasant places to work and our urban areas. especially near every airport in the country. more satisfying places to love and raise a family. it is this task to which we must  address ourselves.
. and the country and the world should k it. just as they have learned after his coming in. so they should k it in his going out. i am deeply moved and touched by what he said about maureen. this is one of the profoundest debts of his life obviously. and he has given us the rare privileges of sharing it with us. and so for my wife. marion. and myself. i simply wish him great happiness and very fruitful living. i hope he will . as so many members do. feel selfconscious about coming back. this i think would be. i say to my colleague. a great disservice to us. to deprive us of his company. his companionship. and indeed his fellowship. i k he is going to lead a rich life. we are  talking about a man who is passing out of events or the picture. and i hope he will feel very free to share his -wisdom and views  only with the country but with us and that life will be as good to him as he has been to it.
. i am pleased that my bill. s. 867. to amend the fire island national seashore act has passed the senate. the bill. as amended by the senate interior committee. will authorize an additional $2 million for the national seashore. this money will be instrumental in providing the necessary protection to the seashore while the master plan is being finalized by the national park service. since the original seashore act was passed in 1964. additional funds have been authorized and master plan to govern development yet exists in final form. after many false starts. a finalized master plan is expected at the beginning of 1977. however. it is necessary in the interim period to protect the seashore from improper use and development. since 1964. many zoning variances leading to improper uses of property within the seashore have been granted by surrounding townships. unfortunately the national park service did  take appropriate action to use its condemnation authority provided in the act to protect the seashore against these improper uses. hopefully this era of neglect has  ended. my bill will provide interim money for two purposes. first. to make whatever acquisitions the park service deems appropriate in the interim period within the seashore. second. it will provide needed money to be used in certain cases to condemn property that is being used in a manner inconsistent with the purposes of the seashore. this bill is a first step toward providing the protection the seashore deserves and must get and i am hopeful of early passage in the house of representatives.
i understand that the managers of the bill are reluctant to accept amendments to the bill at this point and possibly with appropriate assurances from the committee there would be need to press my amendment at this time. since there is a provision in the house bill i would hope that the conferees would give favorable consideration to resolving the issue in a way whichwill allow epa to represent itself in most cases. i believe that this will lead to more effective administration of the clean air act and will  do violence to the general administrative law scheme.
. i am introducing together with my distinguished colleague senator moynihan a bill which would allow the national park service to designate the former home of elea roosevelt. valkill. together with its adjoining lands and buildings which are located in the town of hyde park in new york state. as a national historic site. mrs. roosevelt was an outstanding figure in american history and i believe it fitting to designate her estate as a site for the continuing study of the many humanitarian issues to which she devoted her life. the valkill estate is located approximately a mile from the hyde park estate which was established as a national historic site in 1945. congressman jonathan bingham of new york is introducing the companion measure in the house today. i ask unanimous consent that the bill be printed in the record.
i welcome the debate. i can think of anything that would be more helpful than to have the senate debate it thoroughly and vote on it. we have either grown up or we have . and i think all of us ought to find out. in other words. are we afraid of ourselves. is it  a fact that the reason for the terrible mess we are in. with a grave national crisis the depth of which the people do  begin to realize. and a grave crisis to the whole world monetary system. has come about precisely because we were  provident. are we going to continue to hide our heads in the sand and assume we can legislate to meet problems as they arise. or do we at long last begin to understand that the lead time is a minimum of 10 years. i do  want this amendment just to slip through. it is too important. too critical to our country for that. i am delighted to have the debate. and have it voted on.
. is this: we are providing expressly for state administration. including financial assistance. but state administration which will be consistent with the national standard. . my colleague argues for state plans. the fact is that state plans have had quite a number of years to be put into effect if anybody wanted to put them into effect. but there are only six state plans  in effect. and the two biggest states that had state plan proposals. california and new york. have withdrawn their plans. it seems to me. therefore. with a scheme of legislation which enables a state to act if it wishes. indeed helps it to act if it wishes. consistent with a pattern of the federal regulation which is  nearly as limited as that which is  provided under the metallic and metallic mine legislation. that we are doing what needs to be done to recognize state experimentation and state efforts to do a good job without. at the same time. jeopardizing the needs of hundreds of miners located in the other states where there are mining operations.
. in view of the fact that members who are interested in this matter have  been advised. with very much lead time. i ask unanimous consent that i may suggest the absence of a quorum. without the time being charged to either side.
. a wonderful fight was waged by congressman solarz in the other body on the question of bribery. and we very satisfactorily worked out our differences so that the penalty which is contained in this conference report will only be levied when the act of bribery actually represents the preponderant cause of the claim. under the bribery language passed by the house of representatives. the penalty usually has been imposed whether or  the bribery was a cause in any way of the loss precipitating the claim. finally. there was a deep concern about a house amendment dealing with the financing or insuring of copper ventures. and again we compromised our differences so that mining ventures for minerals of importance to the united states. where there might be some copper even in insignificant amounts would  be deprived eligibility for the opic program. we also said that we will  support through opic any new or significantly expanded projects involving the exploration for copper. we also provided that after 1981. which is the operative period of this legislation. we will  support such a project if it would "cause injury to the primary u.s. copper industry." that seemed too agreeable to both the copper producers and labor in the copper fields. so i think we have done everything which anyone could expect in this matter. finally. our dear and beloved and late departed comrade. and i call him that because that is what he was. hubert humphrey. had prepared a letter in support of opics continuation which he wished to send to the house members when the matter was to have come up. and senator muriel humphrey has very graciously allowed me to insert that letter into the record in memorium to senator hubert humphrey as he very much sustained this point of view. and i ask unanimous consent to print that letter in the record.
