. as called for by house resolution 247. introduced by me june 16. 1947. is absolutely essential in the national interest. such an investigation. together with immediate action on the taftellenderwagner housing bill. introduced in the house as h. r. 2523. will show that we are really tackling the housing shortage. it is my earnest hope that we will be trying in the next 6 months to find out what it takes to get homes built. and that we will  permit ourselves to be diverted from that task by looking for someone to blame for the national housing emergency. the orgahizations participating in fight for housing day are the following: american association of social workers. american association of university women. american council on education. american council on race relations. american federation of labor. american federation of womens clubs. american home ecoics association. american public health association. american public welfare association. american veterans committee. american veterans of world war h. brotherhood of maintenance of way employees. congress of industrial organizations. consumers clearing house. council for social action of the congregational christian churches of the united states of america. family service association of america. federal council of the churches of christ in america. jewish welfare board. national association for the advancement of colored people. national association of consumers. national association of housing officials. national association of rural housing. national board of the young womens christian associations. national catholic welfare council. national conference of catholic charities. national congress of parents and teachers. national council of catholic men. national council of catholic women. national council of housing associations. national council of jewish women. national council of negro women. national farmers union. national federation of settlements. national institute of municipal law officers. national league of women voters. national public housing conference. national urban league. national womens trade union league. southern conference for human welfare. united states conference of mayors. veterans of foreign wars.
