. this bill does  go as far as i would like in strengthening the 404 wetlands program. i continue to believe we are losing too many wetlands--an astounding 200.000 acres per yearand it would be wise to significantly strengthen wetlands protection efforts. i recognize. however. that neither wetlands  the public derive any benefit from the controversy that has plagued our wetlands protection efforts in recent years. by introducing more flexibility and responsiveness into the wetlands regulation program and by emphasizing wetlands and watershed planning. the enactment of this legislation would increase both the level of acceptance and the effectiveness of the section 404 regulatory program. before discussing the specific provisions of the bill. i would like to review the functions and values of wetlands to explain why it is important to protect them in the first place. unfortunately. the people of the midwest suffering from the devastating effects of the summer floodsmay have learned too late about one important function that wetlands performflood storage. when left in their natural state. wetlands along rivers and streams act as buffers that can catch and hold flood waters. once the wetlands are destroyed. however. there is hing to hold the floods back and the water pours out. into croplands and developed areas such as our towns and cities. it 18 important to e that three of the states that have been the most severely affected by the floods had already seen significant losses -of their historical wetlands areas: illis had lost 85 percent of their wetlands prior to the flood. missouri 87 percent: and iowa 90 percent. experts believe the loss of wetlands and their flood storage capacity has exacerbated flood damage in the area. wetlands are also one of the most biologically productive ecosystems on earth. they are home to migratory waterfowl and many other species of birds. approximately twothirds of the major u.s. commercial fishes depend uponwetlands for nursery or spawning grounds. over onethird of our endangered and threatened species depend upon wetlands at some stage in their life cycle. wetlands improve water quality and help reduce point source pollution by collecting and filtering sediments. and pollutantsbefore they reach streams. rivers. and estuaries. wetlands also act as recharge sites for groundwater systems. in short. wetlands are an essential part of the hydrologic cycle. and thus. critical to achieving the goal of the clean water act: to restore and maintain the chemical. physical. and biological integrity of our nations waters. despite the valuable functions wetlands perform. attempts to protect wetlands have been controversialprimarily because most wetlands are found on private lands. in addition. while section 404 of the clean water act regulates wetlands generally. the swampbuster provision of the food security act prohibits farmers who convert wetlands from receiving agricultural subsidy payments. the existence of two different laws affecting agricultural wetlands has led to confusion and misunderstandings about what farmers need to do to comply with federal law. our bill will greatly simplify the process for farmers. first. it exempts prior converted croplandswhich are exempt under swampbusterfrom section 404. this is consistent with current u.s. army corps regulatory policy--a policy that has been in effect since september 26. 1990. our bill would simply recognize that policy as part of the law. second. it exempts wetlands established by human actions in uplands. such as stock ponds and wet areas created by irrigation. third. it provides for issuance of regulations that generally authorize. through a general permit. under section 404 any activity found by the soil conservation service[scs] to be exempt under the mitigation and minimal effect provisions of the food security act. finally. it requires epa. the corps. and scs to develop consistent policies regarding wetlands determinations on agricultural lands -under the food security act and the clean water act. these provisions will reduce confusion and lead to better. more consistent wetlands determinations. the bill also contains a number of provisions to improve administration of the 404 regulatory programto help landowners receive quick. consistent decisions and to improve our efforts to protect the wetlands. it requires. in most cases. that permits be issued in less than 90 days--or 60 days for wetlands that are located within an area covered by an approved wetlands and watershed management plan. it establishes an administrative appeals process. and provides wetlands delineation assistance for small landowners seeking a section 404 permit. these provisions will reduce unnecessary delay in the permitting process and provide assistance to small landowners attempting to comply with section 404. the bill also authorizes. with appropriate safeguards. the use of mitigation banks. i realize that mitigation banking has been opposed by many environmentalists as weakening wetlands protection. nevertheless. the fact is that these banks are allowedand many existunder current law even though there is legislative language specifically authorizing them. under current law. mitigation banking is an ongoing practice and there are apparent limits governing their use. our bill would authorize them and place appropriate restrictions on their use to improve the operation of the mitigation banks while protecting wetlands values. the participation and cooperation of states is vital if we are to achieve our goal of protecting and restoring the nations wetlands. the bill increases opportunities for state involvement in the section 404 program without requiring a state to assume the entire program. it authorizes. under appropriate conditions. state program general permits. local areas with an approved wetlands plan would also be eligible for local program general permits. state and local program general permits already exist under current lawbut are illdefined and are  governed by any legislative requirements or safeguards. these new. provisions will change that. they increase state flexibility and accelerate decisions. without sacrificing valuable wetlands. the bill also authorizes and provides funding for state and local wetlands and watershed planning. adoption of a plan under this provision would  allow states or localities to weaken protections for wetlands. what wetlands plans can do is reduce the uncertainty and cost of protecting wetlands by allowing states to plan ahead and evaluate wetlands in the context of the overall watershed. in this way. states and local governments can work with federal agencies to protect their vital resources and still. allow for ecoically and environmentally sustainable development. one especially controversial issue regarding wetlandsthe definition and the delineation of wetlands--has sub- from my own state of delaware show stantially subsided since both the that of the 594 rape cases handled by corps and the epa formally adopted the new castle county rape response the 1987 corps delineation manual. our unit. 73 percent of the victims were bill adopts the current section 404 regu- children. and approximately 45 percent latory definition of wetlands and man- of the cases involved incest. in addidates continued use of the 1987 wet- tion. as far back as 1977. a study surlands manual until a new manual is veying 930 san francisco women found adopted. any new manual is required that 38 percent had been sexually to be developed after public ice and abused before the age of 18. of those comment. and after considering the women. 89 percent had been abused by recommendations of the national a relative or family acquaintance. fiacademy of science [nas]. the nas is nally. even with the high numbers of expected to complete their study re- incest cases. studies have shown that garding the definition and delineation fewer than 10 percent of incest cases of wetlands some time next year. there ever get to court. is little to be gained by changing the even more disheartening are the accurrent definition or delineation meth- tual stories of child abuse and sexual od until the results of the nas study abuse of children. which seem to be in are kn. any change would only the news in greater frequency these cause confusion and uncertainty for days. on any day. the wire services are landowners and the states. filled with a number of gruesome child finally. the bill seeks to improveto abuse stories. i will choose a few examstrengthenfederal efforts to enhance pies from a single day earlier this and restore wetlands. it makes the pro- weekthere are many moreto share tection and restoration of wetlands one with my colleagues. of the explicit goals of the clean water in beckley. wv. a 24yearold woman act. the bill expands the list of activi- recently pleaded guilty to helping her ties harmful to wetlands which are sub- husband sexually assault a 10yearold ject to regulation under section 404. girl over a 3year period. the woman for the first time draining and exca- would kingly pick up and drive the vation will be covered by 404. it also girl to her home to be assaulted by her calls on federal agencies and the husband. who also pleaded guilty to a states to establish a national wet- number of sexual abuse charges. lands restoration strategy. nm assaicenja anuse chares. we need to continue our efforts to in passaic. nj. an 1yearold girl protect and restore wetlands if we hope and her 12yearold girlfriend have been to meet the goals of the clean water charged with taking the clothes off a 7act. the wetlands conservation and yearold boy and a 9yearold girl and regulatory improvements act is an at- forcing them to have oral and vaginal tempt to address the complaints we sex. when questioned by police. the have heard about the section 404 regu- girls said they had seen their relatives latory program. without jeopardizing perform sex. and had seen it on cable our remaining wetlands resource base. television. and i urge my colleagues to support finally. in ebensburg. pa. an 18it.o yearold man and his 16yearold girlfriend. who had been babysitting a by mr. biden (for himself. mr. 6yearold girl and 4yearold boy. have bingaman. mr. thurmond. mr. been arrested and charged with sexuroth. mr. domenci. mr. ally abusing the children by forcing lieberman. mr. levin. mr. them to perform various sex acts. lautenberg. mr. deconcini. photographing themselves while en-
