. first of all. i would like to make clear that it was the desire of both the ranking member and this senator to clear the decks so that members of the chamber can express themselves on this issue. the issue of prayer in school. those of us who voted for it did so for reasons of sub.. stance or for reasons of procedure. in any event.  comes the part that most clearly relates to substance of the matter at hand. in essence.  you have before you the language of the senator from connecticut which states: funds appropriated under this act may be used to prevent implementation of constitutional programs of voluntary school prayer and meditation in the public schools. or the language in the house bill: funds appropriated under this act may be used to prevent the implementation of programs of voluntary prayer and meditation in the publiic schools. i will be very brief in my remarks. i hope we can soon get to a vote up and down on my amendment. first of all. this is  like the busing controversy. unlike busing. where busing programs were in being and where you tried to tie the hands of the justice department and the courts in the sense of the implementation of busing. e of that exists here. there tire federal programs visavis prayer in school. what you are going to do if you pass the house language is to send a signal and all of a sudden we are going to have everybody trying out their own particular scheme. and back we go again as to what is constitutional and what is . i would hope that we wvould  send that signal. i would hope rather that we make clear our dedication to the first amendment. that we would  sit here and tie the hands of the justice department or any other agency of governnment but. instead let the constitution decide the question before us. i would hope that i would have the support of my colleagues that we might show the good sense. which the house failed to do. when it put its language into the state. justice appropriations bill.
i do  k. i am  here to make that determination. i am just asking the senator why we have this language in here. unlike the busing controversy. in which the senator took part. the justice departmnent has never engaged in any suit. all the great decisions ini this area have been suits instigated by private individuals. so why have this language in here. what is the reason for putting it in here. obviously. it is to invite state and local governments to start throwing out all types of prayer programs that are going to be challenged. and if they be challenged by individuals. then we will raise the issue up to the courts. it is an invitation to litigation. i think that there is egh to do in this nation without starting down that track.
as the senator is molning. the school district tried to well aware. schools are violating the stop the practice of reciting the prayer law of the land by disregarding the su- and was thus the defendant in the preme court decisions that have al- case. parents who wanted to reinstate ready been rendered and. quite frank- the prayer were the plaintiffs. the ly. they are liable for doing that. court ruled against the parents.
the fact is that in matters of racial discrimination. the majority wanted racial discrimination for over 100 years in this nation. the majority wanted to discriminate against the retarded and disabled. were it  for the courts of this land and subsequent congressional action. children like my son. who are retarded. would be in some dark corner of an institution. the fact is that the majority supported slavery in this country. it was the courts that kked it down and it was finally congress that came along afterward and changed the law. you talk about the history of this nation. and the subject we discuss here. the history of this nation supports exactly what the court did because the court saw the mischief that religion can cause. it is  a national football league franchise that they are fighting over in leba. it is various religious factions that can accommodate to each other. that want to control the government. the dying that goes on in thern irelandreligious factions are causing that dying. that is also history that preceded the founding of this nation. whether it was the catholies being murdered in england. whether it was covenanters in scotland. the hugues in france. waldenses in italythat was the very history that gave birth to religious freedom in this nation. what if this constitutional amendment had been written 50 years ago or 75 years ago. does the senator think it would have been as inuous as it is . it certainly would  have been. we would have had prayer. we would have had prayer by constitutional amendment 50 or 75 years ago. and it would have been a protestant prayer. and it would have been a christian prayer. and it would have been a spoken prayer. the times change. but the constitution does . that is what is at issue here. there is a rush to judgment even  of constitutional amendments that have come from the judiciary committee without even any upordown vote in that committee.  we have gone further and some met in a backroom here yesterday for 1 hour to scribble something on a piece of paper for debate. combining several concepts to make the amendment winnable. that defies--
one last comment. i have heard this is going to be a political issue. let us  have it that way. i want to commend my friend. senator onrin hatch. and all those who are on the other side of the issue. the debate has been conducted in the highest tradition of this body. as it should have been. it is  a political issue. article vi of the u.s. constitulion. which has  been mentioned. says very specifically that religion shall  be a test for the holding of public office. and it did  mean that as far as an oath was concerned. it means in terms of spirit. justice story said: this clause is . introduced merely for the purpose of satisfying the scruples of many respectable persons. who feel an invincible repugna to any religious cest -or affination. it has a iigher object4o cut off forever pretense of any alliance between church and state in the nalional goverament. that was written in 1830.
as the senator is molning. the school district tried to well aware. schools are violating the stop the practice of reciting the prayer law of the land by disregarding the su- and was thus the defendant in the preme court decisions that have al- case. parents who wanted to reinstate ready been rendered and. quite frank- the prayer were the plaintiffs. the ly. they are liable for doing that. court ruled against the parents.
the fact is that in matters of racial discrimination. the majority wanted racial discrimination for over 100 years in this nation. the majority wanted to discriminate against the retarded and disabled. were it  for the courts of this land and subsequent congressional action. children like my son. who are retarded. would be in some dark corner of an institution. the fact is that the majority supported slavery in this country. it was the courts that kked it down and it was finally congress that came along afterward and changed the law. you talk about the history of this nation. and the subject we discuss here. the history of this nation supports exactly what the court did because the court saw the mischief that religion can cause. it is  a national football league franchise that they are fighting over in leba. it is various religious factions that can accommodate to each other. that want to control the government. the dying that goes on in thern irelandreligious factions are causing that dying. that is also history that preceded the founding of this nation. whether it was the catholies being murdered in england. whether it was covenanters in scotland. the hugues in france. waldenses in italythat was the very history that gave birth to religious freedom in this nation. what if this constitutional amendment had been written 50 years ago or 75 years ago. does the senator think it would have been as inuous as it is . it certainly would  have been. we would have had prayer. we would have had prayer by constitutional amendment 50 or 75 years ago. and it would have been a protestant prayer. and it would have been a christian prayer. and it would have been a spoken prayer. the times change. but the constitution does . that is what is at issue here. there is a rush to judgment even  of constitutional amendments that have come from the judiciary committee without even any upordown vote in that committee.  we have gone further and some met in a backroom here yesterday for 1 hour to scribble something on a piece of paper for debate. combining several concepts to make the amendment winnable. that defies--
one last comment. i have heard this is going to be a political issue. let us  have it that way. i want to commend my friend. senator onrin hatch. and all those who are on the other side of the issue. the debate has been conducted in the highest tradition of this body. as it should have been. it is  a political issue. article vi of the u.s. constitulion. which has  been mentioned. says very specifically that religion shall  be a test for the holding of public office. and it did  mean that as far as an oath was concerned. it means in terms of spirit. justice story said: this clause is . introduced merely for the purpose of satisfying the scruples of many respectable persons. who feel an invincible repugna to any religious cest -or affination. it has a iigher object4o cut off forever pretense of any alliance between church and state in the nalional goverament. that was written in 1830.
. lyndon johnsons remarks at gettysburg inspire us still. and i can think of more appropriate tribute to him than to repeat today his words: on this hallowed ground. heroic deeds were performed and eloquent words were spoken a century ago. we. the living. have  forgottenand the world will never forgetthe deeds or the we join on this memorial day of 1963 in a prayer for permanent peace of the world and fulfillment of our hopes for universal freewords of gettsyburg. we ho them  as dom and justice. we are called to ho our own words of reverent prayer with resolution in the deeds we must perform to preserve peace and the hope of freedom. we keep a vigil of peace around the world. until the world ks aggressors. until the arms of tyranny have been laid down. until freedom has risen up in every land. we shall maintain our vigil to make sure our sons who died on foreign fields shall  have died in vain. as we maintain the vigil of peace. we must remember that justice is a vigil. tooa vigil we must keep in our own streets and schools and among the lives of all our peopleso that those who died here on their native soil shall  have died in vain. one hundred years ago. the slave was freed. one hundred years later. the negro remains in bondage to the color of his skin. the negro today asks justice. we do  answer himwe do  answer those who lie beneath this soilwhen we reply to the negro by asking. "patience." it is empty to plead that the solution to the dilemmas of the present rests on the hands of the clock. the solution is in our hands americanswhite and negro togethermust be about the business of resolving the challenge which confronts us . our nation found its soul in ho on these fields of gettysburg 100 years ago. we must  lose that soul in disho  on the fields of hate. to ask for patience from the negro is to ask him to give more of what he has already given egh. but to fail to ask of himand of all americansperseverance within the processes of a free and responsible society would be to fall to ask what the national interest requires of all its citizens. the law can save those who deny it but neither can the law serve any who do  use it. the history of injustice and inequality is a history of disuse of the law. law has  failedand is  failing. we as a nation have failed ourselves by  trusting the law and by  using the law to gain sooner the ends of justice which law alone serves. if the white overestimates what he has done for the negro without the law. the negro may underestimate what he is doing and can do for himself with the law. if it is empty to ask negro or white for patience. it is  emptyit is merely honestto ask perseverance the answers will only be wrought by our perseverance together. it is deceit to promise more as it would be cowardice to demand less. in this hour. it is  our respective races which are at stakeit is our nation. let those who care for their country come forward. th and south. white and negro. to lead the way through this moment of challenge and decision.... the negro says. "." others say. "never." the voice of responsible americansthe voice of those who died here and the great man who spoke heretheir voices say. "together." there is other way. until justice is blind to color. until education is unaware of race. until opportunity is unconcerned with the color of mens skins. emancipation will be a proclamation of emancipation is  fulfilled in fact. to that extent we shall have fallen short of assuring freedom to the free.
. the soviet record of compliance with the human rights obligations which it undertook with the final act of the helsinki accords continues on an uneven course. one cause for recent concern has been the treatment of baptists in the u.s.s.r. an aspect of the helsinki accords which has received less attention than other human rights provisions is a paragraph under basket i. principle vii. which statesthe participating states will recognize and respect the freedom of the individual to profess and practice. alone or in community with others. religion or belief acting in accordance with the dictates of his own conscience. despite this provision. on august 27. 1977. in the town of bryansk220 miles southwest of moscowthere were a series of clashes between the kgb and the baptist congregation. the conflict arose when the local authorities tried to take over a new baptist prayer house which had been nearly completed at a cost of $66.000 to the congregation. according to the moscowbased christian committee for the defense of believers rights. about 150 baptists were beaten during the clash with the police and the kgb. on the positive side. the artist oskar rabin was released september 14 after a detention of 36 hours. also an exit visa was granted to valentine turchin. head of the official branch of amnesty international. allowing him to take up an invitation to teach mathematics at columbia university. and ilya levin. a leningrad linguist  at the university of texas. these moves were very very welcome. but. the soviet authorities earlier made three more arrests in their ongoing campaign against dissidents in their country. with the arrest of viktoras petkus on august 24. lithuania joined the list of other soviet republicsrussia. the ukraine and georgiawhere members of uficial groups which were monitoring soviet compliance with the helsinki accords have been arrested for their activities. to give my colleagues a better idea of the scope of this campaign of repression. i would like to offer some statistics prepared by the helsinki commission: of the original 11 members of the helsinki group in moscowtwo are in exile. three have emigrated. and three have been arrested. of the nine member ukrainian grouptwo people are in exile and four have been arrested. two of the five members of the group in georgia are under arrest and of the original five people in the lithuanian watch group. one has emigrated and one is under arrest. aher lithuanian dissident. antanas terleckas. was also arrested in lithuania on august 24. some press articles mistakenly reported that terleckas was also a member oi" the helsinki monitoring group in lithuania. but he is a long time dissidenthaving been imprisoned three times alreadythe first time in 1945when he was only 17for supposed participation in an antisoviet partisan group. in an appeal to the kgb. terleckas maintains that he has been persecuted by the secret police since he was 17. merely because of his pride in being lithuanian and denies that he ever participated in any antisoviet group. in moscow. feliks serebrov was placed under arrest on the same day. serebrov is a member of a subgroup of the helsinki monitoring group in moscowthe working committee to investigate the abuse of psychiatry for political purposes. the leader of this committee. 23yearold aleksandr podrabinekwhose book on the systematic abuse of psychiatry. "punitive medicine." has recently reached amnesty internationalwas jailed and interrogated for 15 days in march and questioned in connection with the case in preparation against yuri orlovhead of the moscow helsinki group. probably due to the press coverage given podrabinek. the soviet authorities decided to arrest feliks serebrov instead. with these new arrests. the soviet union once again is showing its defiance of the humanitarian commitments it undertook by signing the helsinki final act in august 1975. the fact that these new arrests took place 3 weeks after the closing of the preliminary session in belgrade and 5 weeks before the convening of the review conference on october 4. seems to indicate that the soviets hoped these new repressive acts would go uniced. this we can allow. i must protest the most recent escalations in this repressive campaign.
. i wish to congratulate all americans of ukrainian descent on the occasion of the 60th anniversary of the founding of the ukrainian republic. unfortunately. the real independence of the ukraine did  last long. for soon it was subjected to the growing might of the young soviet republic. it quickly became evident that the ukrainian people were  to be given a chance to decide on the course of their own national development. and open national elections have yet been held. the kremlin rulers have pursued an unswerving policy of russification. after world war ii. the ukraine was shorn of its two major religious deinations: by order of the central government. the formerly independent ukrainian orthodox hierarchy was abolished and forcibly joined to the russian orthodox church: the ukrainian catholic church (or uniate) was forbidden and is illegal to the present day. even in ukrainian universities. the use of the ukrainian language has been discouraged. any manifestations of political dissent in the ukraine have been the subject of particularly harsh repressionsin fact. today there are more ukrainian political prisoners than any other nationality in soviet prisons. labor camps. and psychiatric "hospitals." brave men and women such as valentyn moroz. semyon gluzman. grigori vins. irene kalynetz. yosyp terelya. mykola plakhotnyuk. zii krasivsky. and many other uphold the true ukrainian spirit. as a member of the commission on security and cooperation in europe. i have heard much about the activities of the ukrainian group to promote observance with the helsinki accords. in the past. i have expressed my deep concern about the arrests. repressions against most members of this group and the long prison sentences meted out to mykola rudenko and oleksiy tykhy. let us hope that in the coming trial of matusevych and maryych the soviet authorities will show some humanity. the recent arrest of levko lukanyenko on dacember 12. 1977. however. bodes ill for the fate of all the members of the kiev helsinki group. i commend the americans of ukrainian descent who are showing their solidarity with these brave people by involving themselves in their fatesby writing letters to them in prison or in psychiatric "clinics" and by protesting their sentences with the soviet authorities. ukrainians should be free to practice their religious. cultural. and political rights as they see fitwherever they may be.
. the house will undoubtedly today vote this appropriation for the unamerican activities committee as it has before on many occasions with an overwhelming vote. i voted for it myself on the last occasion. and when i voted for it i said i was doing that because i realized. and i think we all realize. that because you vote for an appropriation does  mean that you have to accept everything that the committee does with uncritical appraisal. . there is a great stir in the country about this type of investigation. and the fact that members vie with each other here in protestations about how they abhor communism is  going to cure that stir and is  going to reassure the american people. i think we all have a very grave responsibility. the prestige of the whole congress is at stake. this is  a situation where we can equip a committee with money and let them go ahead with a job and forget about it. it is a question as to our accountability with respect to the methods pursued in the investigation of communism in this country. on two points. i k. we are. without any question. together. one is that we want to root out communism. and the other is that we are devoted to congressional power of investigation which is one of the most stalwart bastions of the freedom of our society and which is so thoroughly entrenched in the spirit of the constitution. but. we can take lightly what has occurred in these investigations. when the presbyterian church. the national council of churches of christ. the episcopal bishops. the womens division of the christian service of the methodist churchthese are conservative groupsoppose the methods of investigation by committees in this field. the congress must listen. when it is alleged that the free market in ideas is being inhibited and that treason is being confused with dissent we must listen. regardless of what our opinions may be. the actions of congressional committees in this field. particularly the committee in the other body which is so much in the headlines today.  only affect finding out communists and subversives. it affects the morale of government employees. discipline in the army. it affects united states relations with its allies. the research program of the united states army in highly delicate subjects like radar at the fort monmouth signal corps laboratories. when we read that scientists are thinking twice about going into or staying out of the service. i think it all comes down to this: i think the facts show. and i am going to give a few facts. that we have to have the whole congress take the responsibility for these committees by legislating rules of fair procedure. many distinguished people in the country have urged it. i respectfully say. and i do  say this invidiously. but i think we would be derelict in our duty if we did  at the least enact rules of fair procedure for congressional investigating committees as recommended by leading bar associations and other authorities.
may i deal with that in a moment. because you k i have studied this subject very carefully. i am sponsoring in the house the rules offered by the association of the bar of new york and i would  speak without kledge of the rules of the committee and what has been done under them. let us see what has been done with them. in the first place. many in the country have been deeply disturbed about the release of testimony given by a former communist party official. benjamin gitlow. associating two very distinguished rabbis. rabbis wise and magnes. who were outstanding and revered leaders of their people and whom i knew personally. and associating dr. john haynes holmes. one of the most distinguished protestant ministers in new york. as having collaborated with the communist party. these are men who had widespread reputation for devotion to liberty and abhorrence of any totalitarian doctrine of practice. as far as. i can see this information was unscreened. ody was permitted to testify against it. hing of support was in band with respect to it except that of having the testimony of an admitted former communist. yet it was released. to the public. i say rules that permit such methods and procedure are a real danger to the prestige of the congress. you have to have some screening. some sort of substantiation. some opportunity to talk back. especially since rabbis wise and magnes were deceased at the time of the report. second. there was a 10hour hearing in connection with the complaint of bishop oxnam. what was he complaining about. i do  speak about his other complaints. but what he legitimately complained about was that the committee did  call him in and give him an opportunity in executive session to say. "yes. i was a member of this.  i was  a member of that." before releasing a file on him to the public. he had to do it in public session. why. because he had been pilloried publicly. third. the issuance of the subpena against harry truman. a former president of the united states. the rules of procedure of the committee state. and i quote: major investigation shall be initiated without approval by a majority of the committee. nevertheless. the chairman issued a subpena against a former president of the united states. even if you did  object to his issuance of that subpenaand i think there is a grave question as to whether there is any right in an expresident to expect that the congress is  going to subpena him. but certainly only after considered action and  on the motion of a committee chairman acting alonewhat i say is bad about it is that when he did  ho the subpena. the whole committee accepted its  being hoed. the congress accepted it. and the country accepted it because they felt the whole matter had been handled wrongly. that is certainly a dangerous state in which to leave the prestige of the house of representatives. i say it is very clear that congress has to act on rules of procedure for congressional investigating committees and only that kind of impact will have any real effect. it is fatuous to stand here and oppose this appropriation when it is going through. and going through overwhelmingly. but that does  stop any of us from standing up here and saying it is the conscience of congress. the whole congress. every one of us. that has to operate . there is excuse for its  operating. and we have the power in our hands to manifest it.
. according to a report from moscow in the new york herald tribune of july 17. two jewish women and two jewish men have been placed on trial before a "peoples court" charged with selling homemade matzoh for passover. one of the defendants. the socalled ringleader. is an 82year old invalid. the others are in their fifties and have been in prison since march. after a 1day trial they were convicted and all but the invalid old man sent to jail. this trial is aher flagrant example of the soviet governments policies which have lent color to charges of antisemitism. despite denials by soviet leaders. this is bitter evidence that the kremlin is continuing stalinist policies against jews even while condemning those policies. the civilized world can remain silent in the face of this act of the soviet government which is bound to stir up religious prejudice and dangers of religious persecution. protests should be made by leading citizens and organizations in all countries where men prize freedom and the right to worship god without restriction or restraint. antisemitism is a crime against humanity. and in a country where this prejudice has the historic roots which it has in russia. soviet persecution can lead to even more widespread oppression and despotism. the baking of matzoh. which is a ritual unleavened bread eaten during the passover for hundreds of years before the common era. was discontinued in 1962 by the soviet state bakeries after a widely publicized campaign begun in 1957 in which synagogues were accused of profiteering and other ecoic offenses. jews are being made the scapegoats for the soviet unions ecoic difficulties. and have been the prime targets of soviet persecution. in 2 years ending april 1963. soviet courts have sentenced 141 persons to death for alleged ecoic offenses and nearly 60 percent of those executed by firing squads have been jews. the jewishness of the defendants is emphasized by the soviet press and they are described in the crudest stereotypes generally utilized in antisemitic campaigns. although all religions are subject to hostility and restrictions in the soviet union. judaism is singled out in ways that add up to isolation and planned attrition. jews are forbidden to make urgently needed religious and ritual articles. bible. prayer book. or religious calendars may be printed or imported. and even the one rabbinic school in the country has never .been allowed to function properly and its enrollment has been whittled down only to three or four students. official sovietactions have led to discrimination against jews in all walks of soviet life. it will be recalled that the soviet union officially -sought to answer this charge by me some time ago. but the answers themselves only pointed up the seriousness of the charge. nevertheless. the soviet union has shown sensitivity to world opinion on this issue and even within the soviet union certain writers and artists have been shocked by the realization that antisemitism is still in effect being actively fostered by action of the soviet government. despite the soviet unions claim of having outlawed antisemitism by law. it stands before the bar of world opinion accused by its own policies and acts. its rulers must  be permitted to believe that the world will either forget or condone: i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the moscow dispatch by david miller. headlined. "four jews triedsold matzoh." which appeared in the new york herald tribune. july 17. and the moscow dispatch in the same newspaper of july 18.
madam president. i have taken the time of the senate only because of an act that is about to be carried out in the soviet union. it is proposed to execute a rabbi of the jewish faith for a socalled ecoic crime. as has so eloquently been said. in a civilized nation it is inconceivable to set capital punishment as a penalty for dealing even in illegal currency exchange. the tragic fact of governmentinspired antijewish acts is showing itself again in the soviet union and the steady succession of confirmed news reports about arrests. trials and executions presents an increasingly dangerous situation for the 3 million jews of the soviet union. the scope and intensity of recent soviet discriminations against jews should remove any remaining doubts that the jews have been singled out for such special attention by the kremlin. an aroused world must find ways and means to stop this evil design. our generation has lived through egh horrors to be very sensitive to such antijewish manifestations withstanding that soviet law which makes antisemitism a crime. within the last 2 years at least 83 jews have been executed out of a total of 140 persons condemned for alleged ecoic offenses. mass trials in many cities have been markedly antijewish and soviet newspapers while loudly denying any prejudices have conspicuously played up the names of rabbisa special soviet favoriteand the jewish connections of the accused. the campaign of vilification is widespread in the rigidly controlled soviet press which has been describing russian jews as unpatriotic. disloyal. and subversive. such an effort to build up antijewish stereotypes in provincial soviet newspapers. particularly in the ukraine. white russia. and other regions kn for historic antisemitic feelings is  a happenstance in a governmentcontrolled press like that of the u.s.s.r. a number of jewish religious leaders have been sentenced to long terms of imprisonment on charges of communicating with the israel embassy in moscow in an obvious effort to discourage any hope any soviet jews may have had of emigrating to israel. it is an irony of history that jews who once were driven out of russia in vast numbers should  be deprived of the right of emigration and held captive in this way. along with these measures. the soviet antireligious drive has been stepped up against all religious groups but hitting especially hard at jews. alleging the use of synagogues for black market profiteering and other subversive activities. synagogues have been padlocked on flimsy pretexts. and just this week. on the eve of the high holy days. the only remaining synagogue in mins. once a great jewish cultural center. was shut down permanently. burial in the jewish cemetery in minsk has been prohibited. a similar order was issued in moscow to shut down jewish cemeteries in that city. this campaign of oppression includes a ban on the last remaining kosher butcher shop in moscow which soviet police closed recently because of alleged unsanitary conditions. the baking of matzos for passover has been prohibited for the last 2 years. and just 2 days ago the appeal was rejected of three elderly jews who had been in prison for baking matzos in their own home and selling them. countless other vicious measures are being employed by the soviet government to break down jewish religious loyalty and cultural identification. communication with jews outside the u.s.s.r. is permitted. religious teaching is forbidden. jewish books or periodicals are permitted. theater. vestige of jewish culture is allowed to exist. let us make mistake about chairman khrushchevs determination to weaken jewish life in the soviet union. russian jews are cut off from the rest of the world. they can speak for themselves because they live in a closed society where free speech does  exist. they dare  show their interest in israel. because of fear of reprisals. on their domestic radio they can hear only the voices of proarab propagandists parroting the cruel and flinty antiisrael line. the world must protest loud and long if there is to be any hope for the captive jews of the soviet union. past experience shows that chairman khruschev is sensitive to any charge of antisemitism. the soviets pride themselves on having made antisemitism a criminal offenseeven though this law is seemingly hoed more in the breach than in the observance. in view of the insistent and reliable reports which continue to come out regularly. the kremlin owes the world an explanation which should be clear. unequivocal. and backed by action to show it means to implement its antisemitic law. quiet protests even on a high level apparently will  work. president eisenhower in 1959 told chairman khrushchev of the great concern of americans about the treatment of soviet jews during the camp david discussion period. this was followed up by former secretary of state. christian herter. who again expressed our concern this time to soviet foreign minister gromyko and by others. efforts in the united nations have so far  proved effective. worldwide protest is needed. the ghastly history of germanys jews in the 1930s and 1940s. and of stalins "jewish doctors" terror. are a constant reminder to the world that timely vigilance and protest are demanded of us all. we must do everything in our power individually and collectively to sound the alarm and speak out against the grave danger to jews in the us.s.r. a great surge of indignationthe determined protests  only of jews but of all free peoples who treasure the rights of the individual must sweep across the world powerfully egh to stop the deadly progression of soviet antijewish actions. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record an editorial from the new york herald tribune of today. entitled "executing the rabbis." and an article from yesterdays new york times.
. i believe it is fair to say that gover and senator lehman earned the love. affection. respect. high distinction and regard of the people of new york and the people of the united states through his long and fruitful life. and that this was shown in a most appropriate way yesterday in the solemn services conducted by rabbi julius mark. at which the eulogy was delivered by u.s. district court judge edward weinfeld. i believe all senators will be interested in the events which took place. and the history of the life of gover and senator lehman. who was extolled as a great humanitarian and public servant. quite properly. at the solemn services. i ask unanimous consent that various newspaper articles and editorials in tribute to senator lehman be printed in the record.
 certifying to the congress that the government of uganda. "is longer committing gross violations of human rights." well. gross violations of human rights could be committed on one person. i would have thought that some flexibility. in a case like this. when we do  k what could happen. what the situation would be in africa. would read. "until he certifies to the congress that the national interest requires" some other action. i think in a case like this. that would be shooting a big weapon. a necessary precaution. for all those reasons. that is. that i would rather do something rather than hing. i find. withstanding my deep feelings about this matter. that i must stand with senator church in respect of advocating to the senate the substitute.
