. i had the privilege earlier in the morning of discussing with the distinguished senior senator from west virginia this legislation. of course. the principal point of contention was the fact that it is a dual track system of paying individuals in the country who lose their jobs due to the clean air act.  1. the coal miners are treated in one fashion and all others who lose their jobs in aher fashion. i have been brooding over the explanation that was given to me. it is. to me. very. very difficult to understand. i think i am quoting the distinguished senior senator from west virginia. the sponsor of the measure. correctly when i say that one of his justifications for this special treatment of the coal miners was the fact that they are earning a lot of money. to start with. therefore. when they lose their jobs. they are pegged to a.higher cost of living where their mortgages might be high and their standard of living and. thus. i think it is fair to say the distinguished senators justification was that they should be treated in a more favorable manner. in a higher payment manner. i believe i am correct in saying that. i remember it fairly clearly. that. to me. is a very. very strange way of proceeding in this nation that. in effect. the wealthy get treated better than the poor. sure. under our unemployment compensation it is geared. to some degree. to ones previous pay. but the differences are modest. in other words. somebody who is working at the minimum wage in our state would get maybe $147. and somebody who is working at a higher rate might get $164 per week. but the difference in the total amount is very modest. where the differences in this. as has been pointed out. is monstrous. in other words. it could be the difference between unemployment compensation which the coal miner gets of $146 a week and the coal miner getting $500 a week.  for 6 months. which the unemployment comp person gets. but for 3 years. the rationale in favor of this that that person is wealthier and has been working at a higher wage and. thus. has higher mortgage payments is to me completely contrary to any system we have had previously.
. my bills attempt to continue the federal commitment to lowincome households b~y providing the needed assistance required to offset rising home energy costs. briefly. my first bill. the lowincome energy assistance act of 1981: first. authorizes the secretary of h~ealth and human services to make grants available to eligible households to meet rising energy costs. second. authorizes appropriations of $2.5 billion in fiscal year 1982 and such sums as may be necessary in the 2 succeeding fiscal years. third. defines an eligible household: first a household eligible for afdc. ssi. food stamps. and certain income tested veterans pensions. second. a household with an income equal to or less than 125 percent of the poverty level: fourth. requires the secretary .of health and human services to allot 90 percent of the funds according to the fiscal year 1981 continuing resolution f ormula. fifth. requires the secretary to set aside: first. $2.500.000 to the commonwealth of puerto rico. guam. american samoa. the virgin islands. the thern
. the article indicates that eastern europe has  only become a substantial fuel deficit area. but that if the ambitious industrial plans of the east european bloc are to be carried out. the requirements for soviet fuels within the bloc will rise sharply. in view of the serious alarm caused in the united states by the soviet unions oil offensivei use the word "offensive" in the ecoic sensesince 1955. with which i agree. i asked secretary of state rusk and secretary of the interior udall for an immediate appraisal of the current soviet capabilities to continue to wage an oil offensive against the west. in the light of the developments narrated in the new york times article to which i have referred. which indicated that the soviet bloc requirements would themselves take a good part of the oil production of the soviet union. i have  received replies from the secretary of the interior and the secretary of state. and i believe they will be of great interest to the senate. i ask unanimous consent that they. together with my requests of both secretaries. be printed at this point in the record.
