. i commend the gentleman for his remarks. and e that. as the gentleman ks. my mother helped lead the womans suffrage movement in new york in 1917 which led to success nationally 2 years later. helen rogers reid believed that a woman was the equal of any man and that woman should be denied rights or enjoy special privileges. she believed that what was at stake was the fundamental principle of equal rights for all women under the law and equal responsibilities. i believe that the joint resolution is a major step forward and i strongly support it. the day is long since past when women should be denied equal pay for the same work or be confronted with restrictions on the ownership of property or businesses.
so i say to anyone who thinks he is going to be able to avoid this issue. or that it will be water over the dam or be forgotten. that i stand ol that prediction. that if it does  go back to new hampshire. then. believe me. this will be an issue in the presidential primary in 1976 in new hampshire. i say that because clearly that is what is  at stake. it must be clear to everyone who has listened to the debate that the facts have little to do with the votes on this floor. i can think of a situation more flagrant in its unfairnessand that is the kindest word i can usethan the michaud ballot situation and the skip ballot situation. but it makes difference. the result always comes out the same way. so i think it is clear  that the only way this can be resolved in a partisan and fair way is to send it back to new hampshire. the issue is  cloture. the issue is  whether you cut off the rights of the miity. the issue is: is it going back to new hampshire and be settled fairly. or is it going to be settled on the senate floor in a series of votes that totally defy logic and the facts. i am going to keep bringing it home. though i k there is certainly commitment on this side of the aisle. there is a commitment made by this senator. as long as there is breath left in this body. i am going to keep saying. "send it back to new hampshire." and hopefully some fine day we will wake up. and the senate will have come to its senses and sent it back. but if we have  done so. i am warning all potential presidential candidates they will come eyeball to eyeball with this issue when they go up there for their campaigns.
i am sure that all of us are very grateful to the senator from vermont for facilitating a morning hour which. quite unwittingly. had  come about earlier. i k that every senator appreciates. as i do. very warmly indeed. the graciousness of the senator from vermont. when the colloquy occurred involving the senator from georgia and myself i had in mind making. in the morning hour. if we had one. the following statement. it is brief. and i shall  make it. today. s. 3829. a bill which i introduced with 11 cosponsors wednesday to put the republican party platform on civil rights into legislative form. is scheduled for a second reading prior to the mal procedure of sending it to committee. before that occurs. i wish to repeat my firm conviction that the responsibility for providing the senate with the opportunity to consider civil rights legislation at this short session is clearly the responsibility of the majority. the responsibility for enacting civil rights legislation once it is before us is a bipartisan one. bipartisanship on civil rights has been absolutely essential in the past when such legislation was enacted. and has generally characterized cosponsorship of meaningful civil rights bills. unfortunately. it has  been very evident in the last few days and although i have invited my democratic colleagues to join me on s. 3829. e have come forward as yet. however. as i believe there will be additional opportunity for those members of the majority who have consistently supported such legislation to come forward and join forces with their republican colleagues before we adjourn. i remain hopeful that bipartisanship may yet be attained on the essential parts of our civil rights bill. s. 3829. which qualify as unfinished business for this short session. the majority had an opportunity on tuesday of this week to fulfill its responsibility for bringing civil rights legislation before us when senator dirksen introduced his bill to give consideration to the two aspects of civil rights legislation which represent at the very least the unfinished business on this great issue before the senate. with a few able exceptions. the majority by substantially a partyline vote decided without debate to reject this opportunity. apparently on the ground that to embrace it would block passage of other legislation the majority considers "musts"medical care for the aged. minimum wage. aid to education. housing. and mutual security. public works. and other appropriations. let us understand clearly what was voted on this past tuesday. the majority  only voted to table a civil rights bill. it voted to prevent a civil rights bill from even being placed on the calendar where it could be called up on equal terms with these other "must" measures. we must assume. therefore. that the majority considers civil rights legislation as unfinished business  entitled to an equal opportunity for consideration with the other measures but i also regard them as of equal priority with the unfinished business on civil rights. this is the fundamental point. we all k. of course. that the crackdown represented by this vote to table on tuesday was attributable to the fear that even an effort to get minimal civil rights legislation on the calendar would precipitate a filibuster. but is  this the problem: will the majority party sitting here with a 2 to 1 majority deliver on its own civil rights pledges by controlling the length of the debate engaged in by a group of senators in the democratic party who are traditionally opposed to civil rights legislatio will it confess it can do so and join in a bipartisan effort with the republicans to do so. the real danger in tuesdays vote was that the majority rejected republican help while showing that by itself it could only provide us with inaction on civil rights. this is the issue before the country . in the final analysis the showdown here will be on cloture for that is the only way. apparently. in which the unfinished business on civil rights can be dealt with on equal terms with the other major measures before us. as it deserves to be. it is my hope that in the next few weeks public sentiment will assert itself very clearly upon this issue. the lines were drawn by the vote on tuesday. the public has  to express itself. the majorityagain. i repeat. with some able exceptionshas made its decision and must  live with it. we will soon see what we may expect in the way of accomplished legislation on the items dubbed "must" by the majority. even though the unfinished business on civil rights has been laid aside. apart from the question of pertinent amendments. what my 11 colleagues and i who sponsored s. 3829 are doing. therefore. is to defer a showdown to a later time. the majority having already recorded itself before the country as refusing to take up civil rights . i would like to quote from a lead editorial beginning on the front page of a newspaper very favorable to the democrats. the new york post of august 10. 1960. it bears upon the correctness of the decision that the unfinished business in civil rights should  be ranked in importance with the "must" measures i have mentioned. which up to  is the position of the majority and it bears upon the charge of "politics" which is made in an attempt to intimidate people like myself: in both domestic and worldwide terms. civil rights has become the great theme of the decade. what kennedy did in the senate yesterday (while mr. nixon sat back triumphantly) will be observed with dismay on a front far beyond capitol hill.  are we impressed by the claim that all other legislation would have been doomed if kennedy and johnson had challenged nixon to join them in an allout drive for the rights proposal. the issue could have been drawn quickly and decisively. to that i add that i hope and expect it will be. we wish to serve ice on the majority as to our intentions. we point out that we are free to introduce a bill on civil rights at any subsequent time during this session and to move that the committee report by a day certain or that we may seek to put such a bill directly on the senate calendar. also. we have the right to introduce any part of this measure as an amendment to other legislation. to move to discharge the committee from further consideration of the matter and to make any other steps which seem to us advisable in the endeavor to get the unfinished business on civil rights completed before this short session is ended. right  we believe the record is quite clear. and we are prepared to stand aside for a short while to see how these other "must" measures get along. and  raise any question which may be charged as beina interference with those measures.
the pending question might be a vote on the committee amendment. we would  want to abort our proceedings by ending at that point. the distinguished senator from michigan . for instance. suggested that at 2 p.m.. when we begin voting. whatever series of votes are required. there may be amendments that are to be voted on up or down. so that they will be voted on. as that is what we do all the time. but we k that at the beginning of 2 p.m. on wednesday. we deal with whatever number of votes are required to lead to final disposition by the senate. it seems to me. in that way. that everyones rights are protected. we k it is finality but we do  try to guess what the parliamentary situation will be.
earlier this year. on june 27. i felt compelled to speak out concerning the disturbing course in u.s. mideast peace policy which had resulted from a series of press conference statements by president carter and a speech on june 17 by vice president mondale which was received as an authoritative exposition of u.s. mideast policya speech which itself created new doubts by its omissions as well as its inclusions. . a new crisis has been created by the sovietamerican joint statement on the mideast just issued and in this connection there wasas far as i kconsultation with the senate foreign relations committee. with which secretary vance has proposed to work closely particularly as regards the possible reconvening of the geneva conference. this joint sovietamerican statement raises a number of serious questions. to which i shall refer shortly. for the moment. i wish to single out the. language in that joint statement which deals with the palestinian question. the statement purports to suggest "the framework of a comprehensive settlement of the middle east problem." which it states includes "the resolution of the palestinian question. including insuring the legitimate rights of the palestinian people." it goes on to mandate. at the geneva conference to be reconvened by the cochairman" participation of all the parties involved in the conflict. including those of the palestinian people." the chroogy preceding the joint sovietamerican statement of october 1. on this palestinian question is: on september 12. the state department spokesman released a statement respecting the geneva conference which stated: the status of the palestinians must be settled in a comprehensive arabisraeli agreement.... this means that the palestinians must be involved in the peacemaking process. their representatives will have to be at geneva for the palestinian question to be solved. the september 12 statement further stated: with respect to u.n. resolution 242. all tha participants in the peace ocnference should (sic) adhere to the terms of that resolution and resolution 338. which presently form the only agreed basis for negotiations. on september 29 at his press conference. president carter stated: if the p.l.o. should go ahead and say "we endorse u.n. resolution 242 we dont think it adequately addressed the palestinian issue because it only refers to refugees and we think we have a further interest than that" that would suit us o.k. we would then begin to meet with and work with the p.l.o. (emphasis added.) yet in the joint sovietamerican statement there is mention whatsoever of u.n. resolutions 242 and 338. this is most disturbing with respect to the palestinian issue. for. we k that the soviet union has long been on record as regarding the plo as the "sole legitimate representative of the palestinian people." also. the whole policy of the united states as explained to the congress and the nation has been based on u.n. resolution 242. are we to conclude then. that the president has abandoned the performance standard of acceptance of u.n. resolution 242 as it applies to the plo. on september 1. 1975. the united states in connection with the withdrawal of israel from a big slice of the sinai desert and the suez canal zone and the surrender of the abu rudeis oil field. entered into a written memorandum of agreement with the government of israel which states among -other provisions: the united states will continue to adhere to its present policy with respect to the palestine liberation organization. whereby it will  recognize or negotiate with the palestine liberation organization so long as the palestine liberation organization does  recognize israels right to exist and does  accept security council resolutions 242 and the september 1. 1975 memorandum of agreement with israel further states: the united states will oppose and. if necessary. vote against any initiative in the security council to alter adversely the terms of reference of the geneva peace conference or to change resolutions 242 or 338 in ways which are incompatible with their original purpose. this memorandum of understanding was submitted to the senate foreign relations committee and was published in the record of the committees hearings in connection with its recommendation to the senate of approval of u.s. participation in the sinai ii agreement. on several occasions. president carter has publicly stated his intention to ho the terms of the september 1. 1975. memorandum of agreement with israel. in my judgment. the time has come to raise this question: how does president carter intend to ho our 1975 memorandum of agreement with israel while pursuing the course of action respecting the geneva conference which is explicit and implicit in the joint sovietamerican statement issued on october 1. the presidents press conference remarks of september 29. the state department statement of september 12 and the reported u.s. proposal for a unified arab delegation at a reconvened geneva conference. first. we need an authoritative clarification of u.s. policy respecting u.n. resolutions 242 and 338. are these or are these  the bases for u.s. mideast peace policy. in this connection. it is pertinent to recall a passage in vice president mondales "authoritative" statement of june 17: resolution 242 does  by itself provide all that is required. we. therefore. decided to work with the parties concerned to outline the overall framework for an enduring peace. our concept was to use this framework as the basis for a phased negotiation and implementation of specific steps toward peace. the text of the sovietamerican joint statement lends support to the concern that the administration may be. in fact. in the process of abandoning or diluting important aspects of u.n. resolution 242. in the second substantive paragraph of the sovietamerican joint statement. which purports to list "key issues" of the framework of a comprehensive settlement. there is conspicuous absence of any reference to "secure and recognized boundaries"-a phrase which represents a carefully negotiated offset to the preceding call for "withdrawal of israeli armed forces from territories occupied in the recent conflict." (the first "key issue" identified in the joint sovietamerican statement is a careful paraphrase of this very "withdrawal" language.) such a critical omission could hardly be unintentional and could be fatal to the prospects for the geneva conference. second. the united statesisrael memorandum of understanding spells out a twofold performance required to precede any u.s. recognition of. or negotiation with. the plo. the first condition for u.s. dealings with the plo requires the plo to "recognize israels right to exist." the second and independent condition is acceptance by the plo of resolutions 242 and 338. at his september 29 press conference. president carter seemed to telescope those two preconditions into a mere plo "endorsement" of resolution 242. with the caveat that the plo could demur to 242 by saying. we dont think it adequately addressed the palestinian issue because it only refers to refugees and we think we have a further interest than that. presumably. the "further interest" which the plo could have in mind is in effect the nullification of the state of israel. called for in the basic charter of the plo and reaffirmed in the meetings of its palestine national council in march and august of this year. third. if the plo is admitted as a procedural matter to the geneva conference as the representative of the palestinian people. does  that prejudge the substantive question of "insuring the legitimate rights of the palestinian people." to quote the words of the joint sovietamerican declaration. what happens to the claims of jordan (from whom it was taken) with respect to the west bank. what happens to the chances for freedom of selfdetermination by the people inp the west bank. how can there be true selfdetermination for the west bank under the pressure of these circumstances. fourth. the carter administration has proposed the acceptance of a unified arab delegation (including palestinians) to function throughout the conference. with separate countrybycountry subcommittees meeting and reporting back to the unified arab delegation. thus raising the prospect ofta veto by the "unified arab delegation" of agreements achieved by the bilateral subcommittees. in this regard. it is pertinent to e that the u.s. memorandum of agreement with israel stated: the united states will make every effort to ensure at the conference that all the substantive negotiations will be on a bilateral basis. fifth. the sovietamerican joint statement speaks of the united states and the soviet union as being ready to participate in "international guarantees" of international borders which may result from the geneva conference. in connection with the panama canal treaty. we have been assured that the right of the united states to guarantee the neutrality of the panama canal entails the unilateral right of intervention against threats to the canals security. if the soviet union really becomes an international guarantor of the mideast peace settlement will it acquire or claim the right of unilateral forceful intervention there. sixth. the united statesisrael memorandom of agreement states: the united states will seek to ensure that the role of the cosponsors (i.e.. the u.s. and the soviet union) will be consistent with what was agreed in the memorandum of understanding between the united states government and the government of israel of december 20. 1973. the text of the united statesisrael memorandum of understanding of december 20. 1973. on this question has. as far as i k.  been made public. it seems to me that the text of that memorandum would have to be made available so that the american people and the congress can judge whether the latest sovietamerican joint statement is compatible with that memorandum of understanding. seventh. the administration has cited u.n. general assembly resolution 194 of december 11. 1948. which the united states supported as pertinent to the definition of palestinian rights and interests in the present context. but the president needs to explain the administrations understanding of the meaning of this resolution as it relates to the geneva conference which the joint sovietamerican statement says should reconvene " later than december 1977." paragraph 11 of the u.n. resolution 194 deals with the issue of refugees in the following language: 11. resolves that the refugees wishing to return to their homes and live at peace with their neighbors should be permitted to do so at the earliest practicable date. and that the compensation should be paid for the property of those choosing  to return and for loss of or damage to property which. under principles of international law or equity should be made good by the governments or authorities responsible. instructs the conciliation commission to facilitate the repatriation resettlement and ecoic and social rehabilitation of the refugees and the payment of compensation. and to maintain close relations with the director of the united nations relief for palestine refugees and. through him. with the appropriate organs and agencies of the united nations: are we still thinking about repatriating the arab refugees. finally. the president needs to tell the nation whether or  the sovietamerican joint statement represents the beginning of a process of superpower imposition of a mideast settlement. despite numerous u.s. assurances to israel that it would  seek to impose a settlement. the scenario unfolding and oblique references to u.s. leverage on israel need to be clarified. there is a need to get on with the mideast peace and the parties need to get to geneva to get the peace process underway. but. if the whole effort is to be compromised in advance by imprudent response to israeli fears. and if a joint position with the u.s.s.r. is. indeed. to lead to the abandonment of solemn u.s. commitments to israel. then we are being drawn into a situation that  only guarantees failure in the peace efforts. but which also could lead to a confrontation with israel which ody wants. it could disappoint arab states and lead to a plo continuing to be dedicated only to terror and nihilism. i trust the administration will answer the questions i have raised. will consult with the senate foreign relations committee and the house international relations committee. and will reconsider its position on mideast peace which seems to be prestaged by the joint sovietamerican statement on the mideast. is  what has happened in lebawhere the plo showed its true colorsegh ice to the people of israel and the american people that this could be the road to war.  peace. the presidents address to the un general assembly today is. as a matter of fact. a better presentation of the u.s. position than the sovietamerican statement. but. the soviet participation is the enigma in the middle east. we need to k a lot more than we do about soviet intentions. if there is to be a just and lasting peace.
