s advisory committee on foreign aid. he said. and i think we should remember this: we are  discussing a problem to be solved in a year or even a decade. we must consciously adopt a program that will last for the rest of the century and perhaps into the next. it is very clear that we are seventh in terms of the major developed industrial nations. in terms of the percentage of our aid given as compared to the gross national product. france is much higher. with over 1 percent. we are giving only 0.57 percent. specifically. in calendar year 1967 frances official aid amounted to 1.02 percent of her national income. australias. 0.83 percent. portugals. 0.83 percent. the netherlands. 0.62 percent. belgiums. 0.61 percent. germanys. 0.61 percent. the united kingdom. like the united states. contributed 0.57 percent of her gross national product. studies of the united nations conference on trade and development and other studies indicate that the gap is a major one. and by 1970 there is going to be a need for an increase of something in the order of at least $5 to $9 billion in new capital inflows. a minimal goal of 1 percent of gross national product should be agreed to by the developed countries in their capital flows to the developing. in spite of tragic poverty. disease. famine. and malnutrition. only onethird of 1 percent of the world national product of about 1 trillion 400 billion dollars is being spent in this area of overwhelming need. i would merely make one final point. in the next 15 years. the population of latin america alone will be 50 percent greater than it is . and more than half of the worlds people are under 25. so the problems of poverty and problems of food and problems of population control are very real. i think the development loan fund and technical assistance are very important in this area. since they provide support for programs that. with help. developing nations grow more food and reduce the rate of population growth. our commitment is a lasting one. indeed. it does extend a long way into the future. and i hope our action today will be measured against that kind of scale. moreover. any cut  would have a serious multiplier effect on contributions of other countries. our actual commitments. our pledged word. our moral sense. all should combine to see that mankind and humanity are   betrayed.
