. individual enterprise is one of this nations most precious commodities. freedom to earn ones wages at the occupation of ones choicefreedom to spend those wages as the individual sees fit--freedom to set aside a part of his earnings against retirement yearsthese are liberties we all cherish. more and more the federal government is being drawn into this latter areaproviding for the ecoic needs of older citizens. very often this is right and just. but. is it  also the duty of the federal government to encourage and even to abet individual thrift and foresight. i say it is. for this purpose i have today introduced legislation familiar to every house veteran. a bill to encourage establishment of voluntary pension plans by selfemployed persons. in 1942. congress amended the internal revenue code to give added incentive to the participation of employed persons in group pension plans. employees have taken fine advantage of this taxdeferment incentivethanks to it. thousands today are living in retirement independence. as of last year. an estimated 20 million employees were enrolled in pension plans. and their number is increasing at the rate of a million each year. but what about the selfemployed person who puts aside a regular sum in a pension plan. for 19 years a glaring omission in the tax code has denied him the same tax deferment benefits granted to employed persons. more than 10 million selfemployed men and women are thus discriminated against. let me emphasize that the bill i introduced today to correct the inequity is neither a "raid on the treasury"  a tax escape hatchit merely defers payment of taxes on a maximum of $2.500. or 10 percent of selfemployment earnings. whichever is less. set aside yearly for retirement purposes. taxes will be paid on these funds when they are drawn upon as income by retirees. as i suggested earlier. the house is well acquainted with the merits of this legislation. it was overwhelmingly approved by my cenior house colleagues in the 85th and 86th congresses. my hope is that this session will finally see it travel the full legislative route through the whole congress. to the white house. and finally into the united states code as law. th3 nation owes this to the initiative and prudence of millions of selfemployed americans.
 was requesting to see the senator. when the meeting finally took place. senator kennedy. emerged and said there had been contact such as reported by the press. this anncement dashed the hopes of many for peace and spread the credibility gap even further. we can only speculate as to the justification for the turn of events. the republican party had the answer to the problem of the lack of democratic leadership in 1859. tonight we must strengthen ourselves. choose our best leadership. and throw the party of division out of office. we can once again provide the vigorous and unified leadership required to make americas position in the vietnam conflict clear at home and abroad. a second striking similarity exists between the opportunities of republicans in 1859 and the opportunity of republicans today. this relates to the attitudes toward and the position of the negro in america. though the republican party was born in opposition to slavery. there were those who in 1859 felt the commitment to the negro should be soft pedaled in order to win votes. abraham lincoln sounded the clarion call in my own home town of cincinnati on september 15. -1859 when he said "i think slavery is wrong morally and politically". ever since. republicans have viewed our racial problems as moral problems and recognize law as the proper method of reflecting that morality. this was behind the public accommodations act of the reconstruction. it is behind the civil rights legislation of today. admittedly at times the republican party and its leadership have failed in their commitment to the negro in america just as the opposition has failed. but i think we must admit once more that where this has occurred. we have been wrong. as lincoln said. "if slavery is  wrong. hing is wrong". in todays world this means if discrimination is  wrong. hing is wrong. and equality means hing without meaningful equality of opportunity. there are still legislative goals to be accomplished in the area of civil rights and they should be approached promptly and without demogoguery. the advisibility of packaged bills which may drag down easily attainable goals with the more difficult ones is certainly subject to question and the sincerity of purpose. but while we should keep cxiii- 304---part 4 our attentions on these goals. perhaps the primary emphasis should shift from the legalistic and impersonal approach to the moral and highly personal one. we must turn our attention to encouraging and working with the private sector of our society to open up. in a way that government can never do. new opportunities for employment and advancement. in the congress. we have junked the claimed coalition with the south for once and for all. the wallaces and the maddoxes make clearer daily the wisdom of such a decision. we must  sell equal civil rights down the river with deals with the hardcore southerners or even the unconcern of the fulbrights. at the statewide and local level. we find your gover. john volpe. and our ohio gover. jim rhodes. meeting the issue headon with programs for jobs.- equally important it is that at the local level of political activity. we strive  only to make our party freely accessible to all who wish to join but that we go out into the wards and precincts and actively encourage negro membership. responsibility and candidacy in the .republican party. we must do more than merely extend the right to serve in the ranks. here in massachusetts to your everlasting credit. you have elected edward brooke to the senate. the importance of this decision is impossible to overestimate. it is true  only from the point of view of race relations but also because i k that he will be one of the greatest senators to come from this state and there have been some truly great ones. especially ed brookes predecessor. your beloved leverett saltonstall. as republicans we must recognize that our political strength lies in reaffirming the principles of equality and fair play forged in the days of lincoln. following in his footsteps. we could meet the challenges of equality on moral as well as political terms. finally. tonight. i would like to touch on aher situation which has parallels with the days of emerging lincolnian republicanism in the distortion of the federal system. lincoln had to cope with a distortion of federalism which grew from the mistaken ion of the southern states as to the extent of their sovereignty and the doctrine of interposition. at that time. republicans responded by demanding and acting to restore the proper balance between the states and the federal government. today it seems that the pendulum has swung too far to the other side. we see the states  on the verge of losing all political vitality through the preemption of the federal government of many of their proper functions. as in the 1850s. the democrats have demonstrated again that they do  understand or have a true commitment to the federal system as a safeguard of freedom. the opponents to our lincolnian republicans could even tolerate and support slavery in the name of states rights. while today the democratic party remains still the home of the red necked statesrighter. over the last 34 years. it has also become a mechanism for increasing federal control and domination over many facets of american life. this control is followed with each succeeding preemption by the federal government of functions either taken from the private sector or formerly exercised by state and local government. while some of this preemption has resulted from the states failing to meet responsibilities as in the case of the southern states on civil rights. in the long run a much more important factor has been the denial to the states of the financial ability to handle new problems because of the preemption of graduated income tax revenue by the federal government. the practical limitations upon rate and volume of property and sales taxes have handcuffed our political subdivisions. today state and local governments are in desperate need of funds to carry out necessary programs of education. of crime protection. of water and air pollution contol. of health and of training. financial response of the democratic leadership to this has been through grants and aid programs. these have expanded many times until today we have almost 150 programs with expenditures nearing $15 billions of dollars annually. but with the grant in aid has come the imposition of federal controls and federal direction. this solution has only accelerated the shift in control to washington. it can stifle the state and local attempts to solve problems that might better be handled at levels of government closer to the people. it has also stifled the diverse approaches to many of our problems that have led to their solution in the past. what louis brandeis referred to as our social laboratory is thus being closed down. as in lincolns day. republicans are developing and proposing a solution to the problems of federalism. while we recognize that it is by means unique. we believe that sharing directly with state and local government some of the proceed to the graduated federal income tax must and should be a national program. many formulas have been proposed and e has been taken of the wartime demands upon federal revenues that may postpone any implementation of the principle at the present time. however. this does  mean that it should  be studied and enacted as a principle to be put into effect at the earliest date possible. as an approach it can give to state and local political entities some financial resources to meet problems at the local level and assure to them a part in the ndtional growth. the more direct reflection of that growth through the federal income tax has been automatically building into our governmental structure a growth of national at the expense of regional and local response. these are a few of the similarities of problem and of opportunity that existed and exist in 1859 and in 1967. as we meet here this evening. let us ackledge that our prospects of political victory in 1968 are as good as those of the republican party of lincoln in 1859. let us e that the republicans of that day met their challenges with courage and perseverance. if we meet our responsibilities in the same spirit and with the same determination. and if we choose great leadership to carry our banner. we can be confident too that we may earn the tributes of history.
. i rise in support of the resolution introduced by my colleague from michigan . i am pleased to cosponsor this resolution calling for the establishment of a commission to study the potential for balanced ecoic growth and development throughout the united states. we are all aware of the urgent problems facing our cities. i do  believe we will have success in attacking these problems until we formulate a coordinated plan covering all the issues involved and employ all of the public and private means adequate to do the job. a very necessary step in this effort is the important information which would come from the type of study proposed by this resolution. we need to k and understand fully the totality of ecoic imbalance in this country. we need to k the potential for a more orderly pattern of population growth on a national basis. with the continuous flood of americans to the heavily congested urban areas. already difficult problems are quickly becoming critical. public and private efforts are being made in one degree or aher to attack the problems created by the existing ecoic imbalance. but we have insufficient understanding and an inadequate overall view of the imbalance itself. what areall of -the pertinent factors in the relationship between ecoic growth and demographic shifts. the result of ecoic imbalance is cities filled with more and more substandard housing. polluted air. crime. congested highways and overtaxed public transportation systems. rundown schools. and growing discontent among deprived miities. the result in the urban areas is better: declining incomes. limited job opportunities. and continued population exodus. surely the public and private sectors of our ecoy could do much to encourage population shifts into more productive channels. surely. too. federal programs and expenditures could be managed in such a way as to encourage greater geographic balance in the ecoic development of the country. but in order to organize and direct such programs wisely and effectively we need the kind of study proposed by this resolution. i urge my colleagues in the house to support it.
the senator from new york would like to point out that the state of new york derives its income largely. indeed almost exclusively. from those w.ho do business in the state of new york. who are citizens of the state of new york and residents of the state of new york. and  from corporations doing business in the state. whatever corporation tax there is in the state of new york is comparatively small. i think about 41/2 percent. if my recollection is correct. the people who are residents of the state. however. have to pay fairly sizable income taxes in the state. and if to that extent they contribute to the state revenues. because they are stockholders. or because they receive income in the state of new york. it is  due exclusively. or to more than a very slight extent. to the fact that many corporations are doing business in the state of new york and may have their principal offices there.
. exhibit  3 outlines the present pattern of income distribution in this country. it shows how many people earnbd how much. exhibit 4 shows which income group has saved the most and. therefore. which -income groups would be most likely to utilize whatever maximum contribution the committee may decide should be allowed.
would the senator from new hainpshire consider an amendment making the presidents salary*s500.000. by that process he would receive approximately what he is  receiving. i can see a great deal of merit in such a proposal. for it would give the people of the united states information as to the income taxes we have to pay. and. at the same time. provide the president. presumably. with what he needs.
i am as much interested in the subject as is the senator from utah. the real reason is that the board does  have a sufficiently large staff. i doubt if they can get such a staff. we have just concluded hearings on the subject. and if the appropriations are increased above the budget estimate by somewhat over $1 million. they would have a staff sufficient to take 20 percent more cases. but that would be about the limit. under the old wagner labor relations act-
 are all too clear. as members of congress we also can ige the impact of this legislation on other nations of the free world. several countries have already given our department of state confidential aidememoires indicating the serious consequences their governments attach to this legislation and implying the possibilities of dangerous retaliation. secretary rogers has stated unequivocally that this measure would result in extensive retaliation by other countries and would cause "serious harm" to the united states. to cite just one example. the imposition of quotas on shoes could seriously affect italy. leading to the communization of certain areas of tuscany. while certain elements of the domestic textile industry have fared well in recent years. there is question that many mediumsized and smaller firms have been seriously affected by foreign competition. especially those companies which are  large egh to diversify their product lines quickly or easily. in many cases. this has meant a loss of jobs or reduction in the work week. in my own district in westchester. there are dress lofts where the shop is working only 2 or 3 days a week. many of these shops have been hurt by competition from japan or taiwan where lower wages and the use of child labor enable importers to undersell domestic products. however. rather than enact a sweeping piece of legislation which is designed to trigger mandatory trade restrictions in broad areas of the market. we must negotiate mutual restraints of a precise nature with countries such as japan and taiwan. right . highlevel negotiations of this character are taking place. covering such areas as the extent of coverage. the items and categories to be included under voluntary restraints. and formulas structured on certain base year and growth factors. the problem facing our own textile industry. in short. is a very real one. particularly at a time of inflation and some recession generally in the ecoy. this calls for the most urgent action by our government on a firm and specific basis and at the highest levels. such an approach would  only curb the inflow of certain foreign textiles. but it would prevent a potentially disastrous trade war and avoid a policy of american ecoic isolationism. the problems of unemployment and underemployment are tragically real in some areas of the ecoy and they need redress--but massive protectionism is the wrong remedy. it would be a mistake of historic proportions.
then sponsored the house version of the cooperchurch amendment to prohibit the introduction of troops into cambodia. in march of 1972. shortly after the veto of the child development act which had troubled him so deeply. and before the scandals of watergate had achieved wide attention in the press. "baown" reid became a democrat. this was a painful decision for a man who had been brought up as a republican. and whose grandfather had run for vice president on the republican line. a major consideration for him was that he felt he could  in conscience support the reelection of richard nixon as president. some 7 months later. reid won reelection to the house from westchester county. becoming the first democrat to win the seat. as a democrat. he then was appointed to the committee on foreign affairs. to that committee he brought a profound kledge of international affairs and was able to speak from a background of friendship with many world leaders. i can say from personal experience that he was one of the most highly respected and valuable members of the committee. this past year. ogden reid annced his candidacy for gover of new york. in keeping with his belief that government and public candidates should be responsible to the people. he was the first candidate to release a detailed. thorough and complete analysis of his tax returns. total income and financial net worth. and upon release of the information stated: there is vested right to public service. those who choose to enter public life have to realize that their life must be an open book. standards of probity and openness are public standards that any public official should be prepared to meet. reid withdrew from the govers race in june. anncing also that he would  run for the seat he had held in the house for the past 12 years. we will miss him in the halls of the house. where he has contributed with such commitment and dedication to so many important causes. we wish him well in whatever he undertakes. king him as we do. we can be sure that he will continue to live a useful and constructive life. we wish for him. for mary louise and for their six children the greatest of good fortule. i include the following:
. today i have introduced a bill which would provide monthly insurance benefits for dependent or surviving sisters of insured individuals who are living and who suffered disability which did  end prior to the month in which the insured became entitled to oldage or disability insurance benefits. or who have become deceased. in order to qualify as a dependent or surviving sister the insured must have provided her with at least onehalf of her support. proof of such support to be filed within 2 years subsequent to the time when the insured sustained disability or died. the amount of money which would inure to the benefit of the dependent or surviving sister under my bill would equal 50 percent of the insureds primary fund. and where the insured has died. 82 2 percent would be allowed one sister or 75 percent each for two or more sisters. a dependent or surviving sister would  receive any benefits if the insured has a wife. husband. child. widow. widower or parent entitled to benefits under existing law. the revenues needed to support this program amount to .01 percent of the employers payroll tax. this amount. while small in comparison to total tax subtracted from the employer and employee. is sufficient to insure security for many individuals who otherwise would. because of the death or disability of an unmarried brother or independent sister. be without support. the advisory council on social security stated in their 1965 report that for the vast majority of americans the social security program gives assurance that old age. total disability or death will  mean the end of a regular family income. prompt action on this bill would assure benefits to even a greater majority of americans by including a group who are among those most in need of the security the act provides.
i thank the senator. 350.000 jobs under this bill. if all goes welland things never go the way we think they will gothat is laudable. but only a small step when we consider that 1.6 million youth are unemployed.  we are considering raising the minimum wage. i ask. what effect will increasing the minimum wage have on the chances of these same young people to get jobs. there are 1.6 million young people in our nation seeking employment. many. if  most. of them are entering the work force for the first time. they are neither trained for the skilled jobs we see advertised in the newspapers.  do they have job experience to offer employers. they do  have the experience. and yet somehow. after raising the minimum wage. we are expecting employers to go out and hire these untrained youngsters at this steadily increasing minimum wage. this does  make sense. what will happen. i think we all recognize it. it is simple ecoic logic that as labor costs increase. business looks to make laborsaving changes in their operations. in the food service industry. for example. we see a shift from table service to fastfood and cafeteriastyle arrangements. in manufacturing. further automation replaces lowskilled workers. where will our young people look for jobs when they are priced out of the market by the minimum wage. under current law there is a provision which allows fulltime students who work 20 hours a week or less to be hired at zlightly less than the minimum wage. this provision has provided 500.000 jobs for students. that is great. look at i: that is 150.003 more jobs than our entire youth employment program will create for $1.5 billion. however. the existing youth wage program applies only to students. while it is important to provide this group with opportunities for parttime work. what worries me is the job prospects for those who are longer in school. what worries me is the students who have gotten through high school. who do  have a marketable skill. who are trying to get started in life and looking for a job. how do these youngsters get started in the work force. the first questions employers naturally ask is. do they have any experience.  they do  have any experience. so they do  get hired. . these efforts have  worked. and the proof of the pudding is in the eating. there are more of these youngsters unemployed  than there have ever been. so i say. let us try something new. whatever we are doing  is  working. that is for sure. so let us give this amendment a try. and venture into new approaches to help our unemployed youths. i hope that senators will join me in support of this amendment.
i appreciate the remarks of the chairman. . in my remarks i mentioned that the villain is  the appropriations committee. because this program has  become an entitlement program. there is hing that can be done about it. each year the appropriations committee will be presented with the bill and they have to come up with the money just as with veterans benefits or pensions. whatever it might be. the message i would like to get across. and hopefully somebody on pennsylvania avenue is listening. is that the administration just has to take a stronger part in the deliberations of this body and the bills which move through the various committees. when their representatives sit on the sidelines like meek lambs and never raise their voices. and at the same time say they are concerned about the deficit and inflation being run by this government. they are talking out of both sides of their mouth. it is shameful the way the department of labor behaved in this matter. they had a third stringer sitting in the back of the human resources committee who never raised his voice. and. when asked. meekly suggested that it might be expensive. of course it is expensive. then we came to the conference committee and the representative of the administration sat way back in the third row and made helpful contributions whatsoever. even when called upon.  the nation is stuck with a bad program. a program that goes way beyond helping those who need it. there is hing much we can do. i suppose if we disapproved of this appropriation that those entitled to the funds under it could sue the federal government and receive those funds. so here we are. confronted with a fait accompli. there is hing we can do. i do  k why it comes before us for a vote. these are the figures and the corporation really had very little choice in doing what they are doing here. i have the same fears that he has about this program. i hope it turns out the way it has been suggested.
. i would like to say a few words about eligibility. which is of vital concern to every member. in considering this bill we learned that. under current law. about 85 percent of the population in this country lives in socalled distressed areas. my opinion is this is a patently absurd proposition. clearly. there is something wrong with the process of becoming designated for financial assistance under current law. recognizing this. the administration proposed a new set of eligibility criteria which would more precisely define the characteristics of areas suffering ecoic distress. the effect of the recommended changes in the eligibility criteria is to simplify the procedure for designating areas. and to improve edas ability to target assistance to truly distressed areas. in general. the revised criteria provide for recognizing: first. longrange ecoic distress. and second. anticipated sudden and severe ecoic dislocation. the new criteria identifying longterm ecoic deterioration have been simplified to four measures: low per capita income. high unemployment ratesboth shortterm and longterm unemploymentlow employment growth rate. and high proportion of an areas population with income below the poverty level. this last criterion is an important indicator which will target assistance to areas where a large proportion of the residents have low incomes but where the conventional average income and unemployment statistics obscure this form of distress. in other words. poor people in healthy communities are targeted for assistance. under the present system. areas can become statistically qualified under nine overlapping and occasionally meaningless criteria. even worse. congress in 1970 enacted a moratorium on the process by which eda redesignates areas. making them ineligible for financial assistance. consequently a number of ecoically healthy areas continue to qualify for federal assistance. many of these areas became qualified when. for a short period of time during the last recession. a very loose unemployment criterion allowed easy designation. thus at present there are 2.231 places eligible for eda assistance. of this number 823 areas do  meet any of the statistical tests contained in current law. the new criteria proposed in this bill are simpler. better balanced. and better targeted to places with substantial ecoic distress. using recent statistics. these criteria cover about 68 percent of the united states population compared to 85 percent under current law. on a commonsense level. this percentage may still seem far too high. however. it is very important to remember that eligibility is  entitlement. under this act eda is given broad authority to target assistance to areas of severe ecoic distress where projects will directly benefit the unemployed and the poor. it is also important to e that the proposed bill phases out areas that are  statistically eligible under the new criteria. it does  cut them off in the middle of a project development process. specifically. in fiscal years 1980 and 1981 eda may continue to assist areas designated under the current eligibility criteria. thereafter. however. assistance will be limited to areas designated under the new eligibility criteria. on the other hand. financial assistance for new programs created in this legislationtitle ii and sections 102 and 103is limited to applicants in areas statistically qualified under the terms of this bill. in addition to areas that qualify under the new criteria. other areas may receive assistance in special circumstances. in the first place. pockets of distress in otherwise healthy areas may receive assistance if they can demonstrate extreme need to the secretary using statistical information peculiar to that area. pockets of distress may be found in otherwise healthy cities or in particularly distressed areas of a rural county. second. the bill provides for the designation of adjustment areas. upon application. the secretary must determine that the area has recently suffered or is threatened with a severe ecoic adjustment problem. furthermore the area must have the secretarys approval of an ecoic adjustment plan to address those problems. eligibility for adjustment assistance may be warranted by the closing of a major private employer or defense installation. by pollution control requirements. or when a community faces rapid growth associated with energy resource development. an adjustment area may. or may . be an area otherwise qualified for assistance as a redevelopment area. i should also e that adjustment assistance is limited to between 5 percent and 35 percent of the appropriations under title i of the act. thus the maximum amount of money available for adjustment assistance is $194 million in fiscal year 1980 and $210 million in each fiscal year 1981 through 1983. as a practical matter. how-
. this is a wise use of federal dollars during this period when we are struggling to reduce spending and achieve a balanced budget. each youngster who is fortunate egh to participate in this program will acquire the skills. experience. and education necessary to compete in the labor market. skills. experience. and education keep people employed in good jobs and off the welfare and unemployment lines. tax revenues invested in programs which truly help educate and train our young people are wise and profitable investments. i hope my colleagues will support our efforts to promote successful employment and training programs by joining as cosponsors of this bill.
 reagan signal a new direction in american urban policy. it is founded on our belief that job creation in declining urban and rural areas can only be achieved by removing obstacles to ecoic growth and providing longterm incentives for people to live and work in these places. it is time for our federal government to give up trying to prescribe solutions for the vast array of local ecoic problems in this nation and. instead. offer a richer opportunity for local au. thorities to foster new jobs and entrepreneurial growth from the ground up. this is the goal of the urban jobs and entei.*prise zone act of 1981. which i am pleased to be reintroducing today. haying worked on this legislation for more than a year with senator boscuwirz. congressman kemp. and congressman garcia. i believe we have made significant improvements over the original 1980 draft of the bill. we have also had the input and support of dozens of ecoic development experts from around the united states in producing this new bill. in particular. i want to express my appreciation for the help my staff and i have received in this effort from many concerned rhode islanders. the act we propose today allows between 10 and 25 zones to be established in each of the next 3 years. applications for zone designation will be considered from areas which meet tests of high unemployment and widespread poverty. and show a strong commitment on the part of local business. government and civic leaders to work together to enhance ecoic opportunities for people who live or work there. the department of housing and urban development (hud) will be the administering agency. the primary benefits under the enterprise zone act are federal tax reductions designed to increase new jobs and business investment in zone areas. these tax breaks will increase the rate of return on productive ecoic activity. helping to overcome the high costs associated with locating in distressed areas. such costs might include training an unskilled workforce. protecting against crime and vandalism. and compensating for poor city services. zone employers will be given a 5 percent refundable tax credit for wages paid to cetaeligible employees. that is. people who are considered longterm unemployed from ecoically disadvantaged families. the capital gains tax will also be eliminated on all new zone investments. for zone businesses hiring at least 40 percent cetaeligible workers. there are additional te. incentives. income tax on half their profits will be eliminated. and. for those who lend capital to such zone enterprises. taxes will be eliminated on half the income from their loans. for all workers in businesses with at least 40 percent cetaeligible employ. ees. there is a 5 percent refundable tax credit for wages earned. up to a $1.500 credit per year. this relief is provided in view of the fact that. in many cases. leaving welfare rolls also means leaving behind taxfree income and health benefits which can far exceed minimum or low wage salaries. the act also recognizes that some federal programs enacted in past years have been useful tools in ecoic development projects. therefore. special oonsideration will be given to applications from zone areas for assistance under programs such as the urban development action grant (udag). section 8 lowincome housing. and ceta private sector job training. i believe this legislation offers a fresh and effective approach to the perplexing problems of ecoic declinean approach that can be used in the south bronxes arid south providences of our nation. as well as in depressed rural areas. i will be conducting the first congressional hearings on the urban jobs and enterprise zone act next month. on july 13 and 16. and i urge all my colleagues to support its enactment during this congress.* by mr. simpson (by request): 8. 1311. a bill to amend chapter 19 of title 38. united states code. to permit the unrestricted assignment of a beneficiarys interest in the proceeds of a government life insurance policy in cases involving contested claims. and to increase the amount an attorney may receive for representing a claimant in such cases. and for other purposes. to the committee on veterans affairs. 8. 1312. a bill to amend title 38. united states code. to make adjustments and* improvements in the vocational rehabilltation and education programs administered by the veterans administration. and for other purposes. to the committee on veterans affairs.
 that is  true. under the current law. the worlds most intricate system of deductions is permitted if a u.s. citizen works abroad. it applies to deductions available if expenses are made for certain trips home under a very complicated set of regulations: education expenses. if equ.2. education is  available in. say. saudi arabia or wherever the person .i stationed. before the senator proceeds with further questions. i would call his attention to the fact that. of course. americans serving abroad are subject to the taxes of the country wherein they work. so if somebody is working in england that persons earned income is subject to the income taxes of england. fance. west germany. wherever it is.
. i believe that we must continue to press the japanese to open their markets to u.s. goods and services. however. my recent trip to japan convinces me that if we are to get at the heart of what is causing our trade deficit with japan. the three major ingredients for industrial successgovernment. labor and managementhad best recognize that each has big improvements to make. let us proceed to accomplish these improvements immediately. the articles follow: [from the washington post. jan. 24. 19821
. earlier this year i was pleased to take the lead with senator bentsen in cosponing legislation to correct some abuses as well as inequities in the current tax laws affecting life insurance companies. i particularly want to thank the 39 other senators who joined us in sponsoring this bill. including a majority of the finance committee members. when s. 2353 was originally offered. i ed that it was a 2year stopgap measure. one that balances the need to increase tax revenues with the need to make some shortterm corrections in the internal revenue code. leaders in the life insurance business and many members of the congress had pledged to forge ahead next with a more comprehensive refrom to insure that the industry is paying its fair share of taxes. the rules enacted over two decades ago to tax the income of life insurance companies are simply  working properly or fairly in todays ecoic environment. the special tax formula adopted in 1959 was developed at a time of low inflationless that 1 percent. furthermore. the life insurance business share of total corporate taxes almost doubled from 1959 to 1978. even though the industrys income increased at a lower rate than the income of corporations generally. this increase in life insurance taxes under existing law is harmful to policyholders as well as life insirance companies. the bentsenchafee bill and many of the provisions incorporated in this tax billh.r. 4961represent a constructive step in the right direction on the highly complex issue of the taxation of life insurance companies. however. much additional work needs to be done. particularly aswith the exception of the repeal of modcothe temporary provisions of h.r. 4961 expire in just 2% years. accordingly. i am hopeful that the administration will take the necessary initiatives to begin working with the congress and the life insurance business to develop a final. comprehensive overhaul of the 1959 life insurance company income tax act to make sure a proper and fair balance is reached.e
. in summary. i believe that we are emerging slowing from recestion. i believe that we have done much this year to provide support for the unemployed. i believe that the jobs training act  in conference will lay the groundwork for the necessary longer term training programs. and that these are absolutely essential. but. i think that the amendment of the senator from massachusetts. as he has modified it. would be immediately useful by providing employment . nine percent unemployment is high. people should  be denied the chance for work under the kennedy amendment just because their state or community has an unemployment rate slightly below the national average. therefore. i urge support of the amendment.
. is that what we want to do in the senate of the united states. i do  think so. the question here is equity. are we going to permit someone who is wealthy egh or who has the ability to shift aroundmany people who are going to become taxable under the proposal that is part if this bill do  have the ability to shift their income around. if you have a pension from a company. that is a pension. you con make it taxable. as opposed to the person whose income comes from stocks and bonds who can shift around and put part of it into tax exempts and part of it  into tax exempts. if we are going to make the social security taxable in certain brackets. let us be fair to everybody in the country. let us  have some groups that are able to avoid that tax through shifting around. it is  some little old lady. . it is nice to cloak these in that guise of mama or grandma. but that is  the situation. we are dealing with wealthy people who have the means. who have the assets to shift them around so that they can avoid the tax on their social security. is that fair. i do  think so.
. this is  a complicated issue. if you can cut through all the mathematical calculations and threats of constitutional crises. you come down to an issue of simple fairness. congress is about to require that invididuals earning income in excess of $25.000-$32.000 for couplespay income tax on a portion of their social security. that is already in this bill. also in this bill is a requirement that all income be taken into consideration when calculating the $25.000 threshold just taxable income such as wages and pensions. but taxexempt interest incomq from investments in municipal and state government bonds. the purpose of this provision is to preserve fairness and equity in. the law. it will help prevent individuals from avoiding tax on their social security benefits simply because they have the flexibility to shift their assets into taxexempt securities. if we do  preserve the bill the way it is. it will be possible for people earning hundreds of thousands of dollars in taxfree income to also avold the new tax on onehalf of social security benefits. while most other retirees receiving pensions will have to pay the tax. if we had adopted the long amendment a few hours ago. we would be creating a brandnew incentive for people to invest in taxexempts. i do  think we want to go down this road. especially when we realize it leads to inequity and unfairness among social security recipients. the social security bill before us does  in any way affect the tax status of municipal bonds. that is a phony argument. it does. however. affect the taxation of social security benefits which we all want to be implemented as fairly as possible. also. this bill will  affect the municipal bond market. it is strange to hear the critics claim. on one hand. that this provision in the bill raises revenue for the treasury. so why bother. and on the other hand. that we are going to dramatically upset the municipal bond market costing state and local governments hundreds of millions of dollars in higher borrowing costs. which is it. one can have it both ways. the truth is. there will be effect on the bond market because this is in way. shape. or form a tax on taxexempt bonds. the truth is. this provision in the bill is there for simple fairness. it requires that all income be considered when determining the $25.000 threshold at which point a portion of social security benefits becomes taxable. the senate has made a wise decision in retaining this provision.*
. the washington post today printed two excellent articles refuting arguments for protectionism. one is an editorial. entitled "a dubious case for protection." the second a very thoughtful article by ambassador william e. brock. u.s. trade representative. entitled " let us praise free trade." i ask that they be printed in the recond. the articles follow: (prom the washington post. june 13. 1983] a duaious case for photection rapid ecoic growth is disruptive. uncomfortable and sometimes frightening. its benefits are great. but it forces people to live differently and earn their livings differently from the way they are accustomed to doing. hing pushes growth faster than foreign trade. and the united states is  in the process of coming to terms with the emous expansion of trade in the 1970s. the political reaction is expressed in the rising campaign for protection against imports. several weeks ago. this newspaper published a vigorous defense of protectionism by wolfgang hager. a visiting professor at georgetown university. today. on the opposite page. we offer a rebuttal by william e. brock. the u.s. trade representative. the case for protectionism comes down to wages. it argues that theres an endless supply of lowwage labor in the world that threatens to destroy the highwage ecoies. but the actual experience of the past four decades. with decreasing trade barriers and rising prosperity. suggests precisely the opposite. the protectionist position argues that in the postwar years the atlantic countries with their high standards of living had a sort of selfprotective mooly that has  been broken by latin american and asian industry. in response. its useful to recall that in the 1950s industrial wages in west germany and france were as far below the american level as wages in brazil and mexico are today. as trade expanded across the atlantic in the 1960s. according to protectionist theory. american wages should have dropped under competitive pressure. in fact. they kept rising steadily. while european wages soared and are allowing for the swings in exchange ratesin the same range as they are here. japans wages are about half the american average. but wages in brazil are less than half as high as japans. both have automobile industries. why isnt brazil the stronger competitor. a long recession and a strong dollar are currently giving the protectionist cause a plausibility that it doesnt deserve. the main reason for this countrys poor trade performance at the moment is a huge budget deficit that keeps interest rates high. in turn lifting the dollars exchange rate and making it harder to sell american goods abroad. the 1930s demonstrated more than adequately that pulling up the drawbridge wont remedy mistakes in domestic ecoic policy. mr. brock does an important service by reminding the country of the real sources of its com etitive strength. (from the washington post. june 13. 19831
i think the point the senator from missouri makes is a valid one. . i think we have just. about finished this discussion. but let me say this in conclusion. in the finance committee. we have labored arduously to make certain that everyone pays his or her fair share in taxes. we are outraged when it is disclosed somewhere that a person with substantial income pays taxes at all. through deductions or credits or whatever it might be. so we have tried efforts such as the minimum tax. in order to foreclrse those who pay taxes. what we have done here. and what the current social security language does. it merely to provide for equity. you can set aside all the other arguments. what the proposed amendment does is create an inequitable situation. under this amendment we will have people with the same amount of income treated differently. one will pay a tax on his social security and the other will . i do  think anyone will quarrel with the fact that this plainly is  fair.
the arrangement here is that a person puts up a deposit which the person can withdraw. it is refundable. the senator from his presentation gave a long dissertation about how my amendment would disturb the refundability and upset these arrangements.  at all. what the senator has done in this amendment that was narrowly adopted is provide a different arrangement for two people who are in similar circumstances. one puts up $90.000. and that money is used taxfree. and is used to pay the groceries. the heat. the light. the golf course fees. and a whole series of things for that individual. in other words. the living expenses of that person are based on pretax dollars. aher person who is living with his or her children. or struggling along at home. or in an apartment. wherever it might be. his or her only asset is $90.000 and living on the income from that. that person lives on the aftertax income. there is the difference. that is the inequity of the proposal that the senator worked into the legislation. that is why we are here saying pethaps in some way. someday we should. have a special arrangement. but let us have it for everybody over 65.  just for this group in these homes requiring deposits that residents can get back. it has hing to do with refundability. the senator gave a long dissertation on this. indicating this is a consumer rights issue. it has hing to do with consumer rights. we are solely dealing with the refundable money. if it is refundable. then there is question that there is income tax on it. that is  a loan. but if it is refundable. then the people. should be treated equally. at least we ought to have some hearings on the issue. and determine what we are getting into here. the senator keeps score on the marriott. the marriott is  any little picayune corporation. as a matter of fact. they say here as a real estate developer. marriott annually develops isroperties with a value exceeding $1 billion. this is  some mythical thing they might get into. here is a picture of one they are building. the fairfax at fort belvoir. va. is marriotts first life care community. yes. it has been specifically designed for retired army officers and their families. it is an "attractive deal." on and on it goes. they would  put out a brochure like this signed by j.w. marriott. jr.. unless. as they say. "over the next 40 years as many as 50 million americans will be making choices about their retirement years. with this in mind. marriott carefully studied the needs and preferences of older people by asking them what they want." and so forth and so on.  they are going into it. i think before we give one group a tremendous advantage over aher in this society of ours. we ought to figure what we are doing. let us have some equity here. let us  say the person who has $200.000 and can put up $90.000 in one of these places or $200.000. and have interest on the first $90.000 tax free. that is  a fair deal. so for those reasons. . i think the language in the bill that was adopted so narrowly is extremely unfair. i hope we can prevail on removing that language. that is what my amendment does.
yes. limited by age 65. it is the same as we have already decided. the senator from oregon. the distinguished chairman of our committee. thought it was a good proposalthe fact that you could deposit in a continuing care facility $90.000 income tax free. i thought that was an extraordinary provision.  in a nursing home. it did  apply there. it did  apply if you are living at home. so i thought we ought to be consistent.
or tries to make it a legitimate shelter. but on those agents time.  immediately. because they will be sorting through the tax returns for many years to come. eventually it will mean that they can spend their time on far more constructive projects auditing far more returns than they are auditing . i think the audit rate is something less than 2 percent currently. i believe that is the figure. the time of the agents will be freed up so they can audit far more returns and the income to the u.s. treasury i believe will be greatly increased as a result of that.
thank you. . your clarifications will make it much easier for the blue cross and blue shield organizations to determine their federal income tax liability in 1987. we will be monitoring the organizations experience with the new provisions to. determine if revisions are necessary.
thank you. . your clarifications will make it much easier for the blue cross and blue shield organizations to determine their federal income tax liability in 1987. we will be monitoring the organizations experience with the new provisions to determine if revisions are necessary.
. is that what we want to do in the senate of the united states. i do  think so. the question here is equity. are we going to permit someone who is wealthy egh or who has the ability to shift aroundmany people who are going to become taxable under the proposal that is part if this bill do  have the ability to shift their income around. if you have a pension from a company. that is a pension. you con make it taxable. as opposed to the person whose income comes from stocks and bonds who can shift around and put part of it into tax exempts and part of it  into tax exempts. if we are going to make the social security taxable in certain brackets. let us be fair to everybody in the country. let us  have some groups that are able to avoid that tax through shifting around. it is  some little old lady. . it is nice to cloak these in that guise of mama or grandma. but that is  the situation. we are dealing with wealthy people who have the means. who have the assets to shift them around so that they can avoid the tax on their social security. is that fair. i do  think so.
. this is  a complicated issue. if you can cut through all the mathematical calculations and threats of constitutional crises. you come down to an issue of simple fairness. congress is about to require that invididuals earning income in excess of $25.000-$32.000 for couplespay income tax on a portion of their social security. that is already in this bill. also in this bill is a requirement that all income be taken into consideration when calculating the $25.000 threshold just taxable income such as wages and pensions. but taxexempt interest incomq from investments in municipal and state government bonds. the purpose of this provision is to preserve fairness and equity in. the law. it will help prevent individuals from avoiding tax on their social security benefits simply because they have the flexibility to shift their assets into taxexempt securities. if we do  preserve the bill the way it is. it will be possible for people earning hundreds of thousands of dollars in taxfree income to also avold the new tax on onehalf of social security benefits. while most other retirees receiving pensions will have to pay the tax. if we had adopted the long amendment a few hours ago. we would be creating a brandnew incentive for people to invest in taxexempts. i do  think we want to go down this road. especially when we realize it leads to inequity and unfairness among social security recipients. the social security bill before us does  in any way affect the tax status of municipal bonds. that is a phony argument. it does. however. affect the taxation of social security benefits which we all want to be implemented as fairly as possible. also. this bill will  affect the municipal bond market. it is strange to hear the critics claim. on one hand. that this provision in the bill raises revenue for the treasury. so why bother. and on the other hand. that we are going to dramatically upset the municipal bond market costing state and local governments hundreds of millions of dollars in higher borrowing costs. which is it. one can have it both ways. the truth is. there will be effect on the bond market because this is in way. shape. or form a tax on taxexempt bonds. the truth is. this provision in the bill is there for simple fairness. it requires that all income be considered when determining the $25.000 threshold at which point a portion of social security benefits becomes taxable. the senate has made a wise decision in retaining this provision.*
. the washington post today printed two excellent articles refuting arguments for protectionism. one is an editorial. entitled "a dubious case for protection." the second a very thoughtful article by ambassador william e. brock. u.s. trade representative. entitled " let us praise free trade." i ask that they be printed in the recond. the articles follow: (prom the washington post. june 13. 1983] a duaious case for photection rapid ecoic growth is disruptive. uncomfortable and sometimes frightening. its benefits are great. but it forces people to live differently and earn their livings differently from the way they are accustomed to doing. hing pushes growth faster than foreign trade. and the united states is  in the process of coming to terms with the emous expansion of trade in the 1970s. the political reaction is expressed in the rising campaign for protection against imports. several weeks ago. this newspaper published a vigorous defense of protectionism by wolfgang hager. a visiting professor at georgetown university. today. on the opposite page. we offer a rebuttal by william e. brock. the u.s. trade representative. the case for protectionism comes down to wages. it argues that theres an endless supply of lowwage labor in the world that threatens to destroy the highwage ecoies. but the actual experience of the past four decades. with decreasing trade barriers and rising prosperity. suggests precisely the opposite. the protectionist position argues that in the postwar years the atlantic countries with their high standards of living had a sort of selfprotective mooly that has  been broken by latin american and asian industry. in response. its useful to recall that in the 1950s industrial wages in west germany and france were as far below the american level as wages in brazil and mexico are today. as trade expanded across the atlantic in the 1960s. according to protectionist theory. american wages should have dropped under competitive pressure. in fact. they kept rising steadily. while european wages soared and are allowing for the swings in exchange ratesin the same range as they are here. japans wages are about half the american average. but wages in brazil are less than half as high as japans. both have automobile industries. why isnt brazil the stronger competitor. a long recession and a strong dollar are currently giving the protectionist cause a plausibility that it doesnt deserve. the main reason for this countrys poor trade performance at the moment is a huge budget deficit that keeps interest rates high. in turn lifting the dollars exchange rate and making it harder to sell american goods abroad. the 1930s demonstrated more than adequately that pulling up the drawbridge wont remedy mistakes in domestic ecoic policy. mr. brock does an important service by reminding the country of the real sources of its com etitive strength. (from the washington post. june 13. 19831
i think the point the senator from missouri makes is a valid one. . i think we have just. about finished this discussion. but let me say this in conclusion. in the finance committee. we have labored arduously to make certain that everyone pays his or her fair share in taxes. we are outraged when it is disclosed somewhere that a person with substantial income pays taxes at all. through deductions or credits or whatever it might be. so we have tried efforts such as the minimum tax. in order to foreclrse those who pay taxes. what we have done here. and what the current social security language does. it merely to provide for equity. you can set aside all the other arguments. what the proposed amendment does is create an inequitable situation. under this amendment we will have people with the same amount of income treated differently. one will pay a tax on his social security and the other will . i do  think anyone will quarrel with the fact that this plainly is  fair.
the arrangement here is that a person puts up a deposit which the person can withdraw. it is refundable. the senator from his presentation gave a long dissertation about how my amendment would disturb the refundability and upset these arrangements.  at all. what the senator has done in this amendment that was narrowly adopted is provide a different arrangement for two people who are in similar circumstances. one puts up $90.000. and that money is used taxfree. and is used to pay the groceries. the heat. the light. the golf course fees. and a whole series of things for that individual. in other words. the living expenses of that person are based on pretax dollars. aher person who is living with his or her children. or struggling along at home. or in an apartment. wherever it might be. his or her only asset is $90.000 and living on the income from that. that person lives on the aftertax income. there is the difference. that is the inequity of the proposal that the senator worked into the legislation. that is why we are here saying pethaps in some way. someday we should. have a special arrangement. but let us have it for everybody over 65.  just for this group in these homes requiring deposits that residents can get back. it has hing to do with refundability. the senator gave a long dissertation on this. indicating this is a consumer rights issue. it has hing to do with consumer rights. we are solely dealing with the refundable money. if it is refundable. then there is question that there is income tax on it. that is  a loan. but if it is refundable. then the people. should be treated equally. at least we ought to have some hearings on the issue. and determine what we are getting into here. the senator keeps score on the marriott. the marriott is  any little picayune corporation. as a matter of fact. they say here as a real estate developer. marriott annually develops isroperties with a value exceeding $1 billion. this is  some mythical thing they might get into. here is a picture of one they are building. the fairfax at fort belvoir. va. is marriotts first life care community. yes. it has been specifically designed for retired army officers and their families. it is an "attractive deal." on and on it goes. they would  put out a brochure like this signed by j.w. marriott. jr.. unless. as they say. "over the next 40 years as many as 50 million americans will be making choices about their retirement years. with this in mind. marriott carefully studied the needs and preferences of older people by asking them what they want." and so forth and so on.  they are going into it. i think before we give one group a tremendous advantage over aher in this society of ours. we ought to figure what we are doing. let us have some equity here. let us  say the person who has $200.000 and can put up $90.000 in one of these places or $200.000. and have interest on the first $90.000 tax free. that is  a fair deal. so for those reasons. . i think the language in the bill that was adopted so narrowly is extremely unfair. i hope we can prevail on removing that language. that is what my amendment does.
yes. limited by age 65. it is the same as we have already decided. the senator from oregon. the distinguished chairman of our committee. thought it was a good proposalthe fact that you could deposit in a continuing care facility $90.000 income tax free. i thought that was an extraordinary provision.  in a nursing home. it did  apply there. it did  apply if you are living at home. so i thought we ought to be consistent.
or tries to make it a legitimate shelter. but on those agents time.  immediately. because they will be sorting through the tax returns for many years to come. eventually it will mean that they can spend their time on far more constructive projects auditing far more returns than they are auditing . i think the audit rate is something less than 2 percent currently. i believe that is the figure. the time of the agents will be freed up so they can audit far more returns and the income to the u.s. treasury i believe will be greatly increased as a result of that.
thank you. . your clarifications will make it much easier for the blue cross and blue shield organizations to determine their federal income tax liability in 1987. we will be monitoring the organizations experience with the new provisions to. determine if revisions are necessary.
thank you. . your clarifications will make it much easier for the blue cross and blue shield organizations to determine their federal income tax liability in 1987. we will be monitoring the organizations experience with the new provisions to determine if revisions are necessary.
. these are times when legislators. academicians. and commentators alike agree that the family in american society needs help. help is the common term for what social services provide. families today have been plunged into a transient societyunlike that of our ancestors. most have both parents working. they have elderly relatives that dont live near egh to provide care--or. alternatively. the families dont live near egh to their elderly relatives to cook for them twice a day. this is the result of industrialization. techogical advancement. and progress in its broadest terms. the freedom that it has afforded many has its costs. these costs mean that help must be provided. this measure that i join with senator riegle in introducing today would increase the authorization of title xx of the social security act by $200 million in fiscal year 1988. and $300 million in fiscal year 1989. this is an investment of more federal dollars in programs that invest in people. the extra dollars will help the elderly. the disabled. and the children. most importantly. it is funding to aid familiesfamilies that are coping with a new world. new problems. new challenges. any increase in ssbg funds will result in increases in child care expenditures. the future of our country is only as bright as the futures of our children. the importance of quality child care is something of which we should all be aware. it is through our children that we can eventually solve the problems of the world. and achieve what we struggle for on a daytoday basis: peace. fulfillment. meaning. it only makes sense that we ensure they are well cared for. in spite of the obstacles our society may present. families are our nations strength. its about time we did more to help keep them strong.e
madam president. i am disturbed that this measure is on* the trade bill. it does  seem to me that this is an appropriate place for plant closing legislation. it is diverting attention from a very important bill which deals with sections like 301. which is access to foreign markets. and 201. which provides protection for our industries in the event that they are harmed by imports. how this happened to be tacked on it seems to me to be unfortunate. but. nevertheless. let us look at the amendment itself. if this were coming up as a freestanding amendment. i must say i would find much in it that i agree with. i certainly agree with the motivation behind this legislation. i think every senator here would like to see employers give workers as much advance ice as possible whenever there is going to be a closing or layoffs. nevertheless. i have great difficulty with the mandatory ification requirements for two reasons. the principal one is it is obvious to me that it will result in endless litigation. and i will touch on that in a minute. second. it is my belief that it ties the hands of our businesses that are trying to get in the marketplace. in other words. it reduces the competitiveness of american industry. my cochairman of the competitiveness caucus. the senator from montana. has previously spoken. that this will assist competitiveness. in my judg.s 9422 ment. it wil . it will deny a competitive edge to american industry. thebest: way to help. dislocated workers is. to. have an. adequate retraining and relocation. program for those individuals. and that is the way to do. ihelp: out the workers. but. do . handicap the businesses which are tqe source of job& mandatory ice will be counterproductive. it will jeopardize employment. we all recognize it is a tragic. situationi when workers lose their jobs because business has been forced to retrench. or even to shut down in the face of changing ecoic. conditions. in my home states of rhode island i am proud that we have one of the. best dislocated worker programs in. the country.. we have. a rapid response team that can come in. we have early intervention programs. in other words.. we are set up to take care of the situatfon and. we have. onsite assistance. this. and other program like it..such as unemployment compensation. helps. dislocated workers. in a. constructive way in our rapidly changing ecoy. that is why i am a staunch supporter of part a and part cofthis bill. what is part a. part a authorizes. $98g millioneven for somebody from washington that is a lot. .of money". it. is nearly a billion dollars-$980 million for a comprehensive worker adjustment program. this is to. be. developed and administered by the states. in other words. it is handled by those on the battle lines. workers are eligible for services which include education. onthejob training. income support. if they have been laid off or lost. their jobs. due to. general ecoic. conditions.. homemakers. for example. who are trying to. enter the labor force because they lost their spousal. support are eligible for these programs as well. these are people who deserve assistance when they lose their jobs due to ecoic circumstances beyond their control. their needs are goig to be met by part a of. this bill.. the $98# million. . . part c let us touch on that briefly that also fulfills a crucial. need. it creates five demonstration programs. and provides: for discretion-. ary expenditures on other programs by the secretary of labor. this. section. will allow states to. explore new ways to provide prompt. effective. and flexible assistance to dislocated workers.. let us try something different. we do  k all the answers. we do  k all that is best. about retraining. this part c gives the secretary of labor varied approaches to try. and this will be. used  only for workers. who are currently dislocated but. this legislation will also plant the seeds for better and more effective programs in. thefuture. . . it. certainly makes- sense and it is. sound policy for this country. of ours to. provide. for the life. blood of our society. the. family workers.. in times of need. part a and partc does this. .  but part b is different. what does part b do. part b is the part that.requires this. ice to the workers in the event of the closure of a plant in advance. . . part b requires 60 days advance ice of layoffs and closings in the case of plants. and companies. what makes this so. troubling to me is. that i believe it is going to do more harm than. it is going to- do good. r think it is important to. remember that every piece of legislation that is labeled as. helping labor does  in the end help labor. let me just give you an. example. in my home state for many years there was on. our books what we call strikers benefits. in other words.if there was a strike at a. company. the strikers. after a brief waiting period. were. entitled to unemployment compensation..we. were one of two states in the nation to. do so. why. i e to the senator- from massachusetts. his. state did . even have that program. they did  pay strikers benefits. i mean. that is how bad it was. massachusetts. had  adopted it. this legislation was labeled proworker. it was supported by. labor strongly. they go out on strike. how are the workers going to feed the children and take. care of them. they would be helped by these benefits. finally. we woke: up and we said this is  helping our state. it is hindering our state. so 2 years ago they changed this. they made a change in. a program that was labeled prolabor. proworker. beneficial. but in experience it proved.  to be so. i admired our gover and y admire our legislature for doing so. it took a tremendous wrench for them to changethis law that had been. on the books since the late fifties. but they did it. since then. and i do  want to suggest this is all cause and effecta host of other factors have taken placeour state has been on an ecoic resurgence like we. have never seen before. our state is prospering. our unemployment is down. below 4 percent. we have more housing starts. the value of housing has gone up. a mixed blessing. people are. coming to our state. we had more new jbbs created. we are attractive . an attractive state for labor and everybody has prospered. everybody. miities. women. all have. everybody has prospered as a result of this resurgence. so it turns out that wha t was a prolabor bill. proworker originally by name. the changing of it helped lead to this better climate. again. i want to stress this was  everything. there are a lot of other factors. including better times nationally. but  we are one of the more prosperous states in the. .country. goodpaying jobs are going begging and magnificent employers-. like elec.tric boat. has 400 jobs that they can fill they had to send them down to the south. for that to happen in our state is extraordinary. we are a state where in every single poll that has been taken. where the question is asked. "what. is your principal concern." in good times or bad. the answer is "unemployment." we are scared to death of unemployment.. but  that has. changed. and i use that illustration. madam president. to make the point. that leg-. islation. that is labeled "good for the worker" is . always good for the worker. in my. judgment. this is one of those instances.. let me give you an example. it is quite common that some companies have two. or three plants. and. there are occasionsand i k this from personal experience.. i have. seen it at. home--where one of. these. three plants is rapidly losing money.. and i mean rapidlylost a contract.. could . continueand they have to. .be closed. quickly. and if they are . closed. quickly. the job& in the other two plants are: jeopardized..  that is an actual situation that has hap. pened in my home state. if this provision is passed into law. the company is required to keep that plant going even though there are. staggering costs associated with it and even though it jeopardizes the jobs of the. workers in the other two facilities. thus. the jobs of all the workers are: endangered because of a piece of legislation like this. . it. is. true that the sponsors of this amendluent have tried to. accommodate the. myriad of. practical objections which have been raised. about the mandatory ice. they have inserted exceptions and exemptions.. and i agree. with those exceptions and exemptions.. the motivation behind them. but. in reality. these exceptions and exemptions simply are going to- lead to the most litigious type. of result you have ever seen. it is going to be a lawyers field day. take the situation where a company: "reasonably and fn good faith believed that giving the. ice would have precluded the employer from obtaining the needed capital or business." situations where. if you gave ice. you would  have been. able to get the capital you were looking for. so you did  give ice. you. did  get the capital. the plant had to be closed. that is listed as an exception. but that is an exception that will be tried in the courts. there will be battles over whether the employer was "reasonable" in his belief. this bill. is a lawyers dream. i. have  seen the list of supporters. but if we do  find the american trial lawyers are all out in support of this. then they have  heard about it. and the american bar association must think this is wonderful. why. these lawyers that are being ground $s 9423 out. of. law: schools. they can have a job.. hook. on to one of these kinds of cases and they can work it for a faretheewell. it. is a full employment for labor law litigatorsthat. is what it isat a significant cost to the businesses. . here is aher one. listen to this one. an employer can close the plant without giving the 60day ice if the closing is "caused by business circumstances that were  reasonably foreseeable as of the time that the ice would have been required." do you get that. you do  have to give the ice if there were business circumstances that could  "reasonably be foreseen" when you were required to give the ice. . how many months of a lawyers time is going to be spent trying to decide. battling it out in the courts with discovery procedures and all kinds of interrogatories. whether the business circumstances were "reasonably foreseeable." here we are in the summer of 1987. does anyone k or can anyone "reasonably foresee" what the interest rates are going to be this fall. what are the interest rates going to be. i would be curious. i would appreciate it a great deal if the sponsors of this legislation would tell me what the interest rates are going to be this fall. suppose you are in business. planning to invest in new equipment. you make your plans based on borrowing at 9 percent. but in september the rate is  9. it is 11 percent.  was that reasonably foreseeable. were you doing a conscientious job in  anticipating that the prime was going to 11 percent. should we have thought: of that. that is a wonderful court case. look at the value of the dollar. businesses dependent upon exports can be drastically affected by changes in the value of the dollar. we all k that. we have been through it in the past several years. these businesses can have all the assumptions that they want to. but they can reasonably foresee all the changes that are going to occur and how they will affect their businesses. here is aher one. listen to this one. the ice does  apply if the plant closing is the result of the sale of part or all of the business and the purchasers agree to hire "substantially all" the affected employees.  will somebody please tell me what "substantially all" means. is that 60 percent. somebody is going to buy your plant and they say they are going to hire substantially all of the employees. is that 70 percent. can anybody within hearing help me out. what is "substantial". i suppose it is above 50 percent. but is it 70.1 do  k.  here is one more. you do  have to give ice if the closing is the result of the relocation of part or all of the employers business "within a reasonable commuting distance" and: the employer offers to transfer "substantially all" the employees. ok.  you have a double one there. first. youhave to figure out. is this a reasonable commuting distance. . i will tell you. up my way. we spend 2 days planning a. trip to boston. and that is 40 miles away. but out west. they go 40 miles to the movies. it is a different approach. why. if we are going to a baseball game in boston. we sit down and talk about it. that is a major trip. i k some people in our state have never been to boston. . you may wonder. why bother. well. the red sox are there and there is a lot of appeal to go into boston. but that is a reasonable commuting distance. if you said to any citizen in our state. "we are going to transfer this business up to boston." they would faint. they would  like that trip. they do  like crossing state lines. there is something about it. roger williamsthis is a bit of interesting historyroger williams was thrown out of the massachusetts bay colony. and roger williams subsequently founded our state. we have had somewhat of a disgruntled feeling about massachusetts ever since then. is it legal to transfer a plant from providence to boston. ma and saying that is a reasonable commuting distance. i do  k. is that a reasonable commuting distance. . the westerners. they would say. "why 90 miles is a reasonable commuting distance." but we dont think 40 miles is. but. if one is going to do that and is going to take a substantial number of employees there. and is willing to transport them. where are we . what is a reasonable distance and what is a substantial number. i think we have got the makings of a splendid lawsuit. lets look at aher. whoever dreamed this legislation up. the ice does  apply to "a temporary facility" or if the layoff is the result of the completion of a particular project and "the affected employees were hired with the understanding that their employment was limited to the duration of the facility or the project." . what is temporary. when i first came down here the temporary navy buildings. occupied the mall on pennsylvania avenue between pennsylvania avenue and constitution. that was called temporary navy. those buildings were built there in 1917 and i came in as secretary of the navy in 1969 .and those temporary buildings were there. we finally tore them down in 1971. those were temporary. i do  k whether we take the word "temporary" as we have kn it here in connection with those naval facilities which lasted some 60years or is there some other definition of temporary. who is going to determine what the "understanding of the emnployees" was about a project. and .how is it to be determined.  all this is tailor made for litigation. this amendment really creates a nightmare of potential litigation. and it is an answer to the prayer of every lawyer in the united states. i realize that the motivation behind this mandatory ice is to help workers caught up in a very sad situation: a business failure. but it is . as i have pointed out. the best way to help them in the long run. we are  going to help workers by making it more difficult for those businesses that we depend upon to hire the workers to survive. how can we help the workers. we can help them by providing the direct governmental assistance as part a does and part c does of this measure. that is the best and most humane way to be of assistance. i do  believe that in the long run it reallyhelps workers to require businesses to stay open long after it is ecoically feasible for them to do so. it may result in workers losing their jobs permanently when. if the company* had the flexibility to quickly respond to a sudden ecoic situation in a competitive fashion. there would only be a brief layoff. madam president. let me say i wholeheartedly support the $980 million which i believe originally came from the senator from indianaand: the administration certainly has supported that. we need to ensure that partsa and c of this measure are adopted. it does  have to be adopted in connection with this trade bill. it can be adopted later on. there is question if it is possible to give advance ice of the closing of a plant. that is right. that is preferable. i heard the discussion here earlier of a plant closing. at&t. it was pointed out. closed in shreveport. la. with ice. i can only take the word of the senator from louisiana who described that closing. but i find that surprising. because we have dealt with at&t in my section of the country and they have been outstanding employers. they go all out in every respect to treat the community. their workers. their stockholderswe have been particularly associated with them in the connection as a communityin the most favorable fashion possible. they give every kind of ice that they can. what happened in the shreveport situation. i do  k. but to mandate. certainly. we want to encourage that. but to mandate would ultimately harm the very workers it set out to assist. the situation i think of is this: a plant is struggling. they want to stay open. if they give ice that they are terminating or going to lay off their workers in 60 days. just. to. be cautious. ..to comply with thebill. there is  a lender that is going to extend them a nickel of credit- and we all k that. there. is  going .to- be a supplier that is going to send them any supplies because the -suppliers are in danger of riot being paidand so. it is going to be all cod. cash on delivery. credit is going to be extended in any way. so a plant that battles to survive is going tolose. they are going to lose. they can come in afterwards. having  complied with the bill and  having given ice. fighting to survive. and they fail. they can then come in and say: "we had reasonable anticipation that we were going to make it. then they are hauled into court and the chance of that plant ever coming back in any way due to the long litigation. it seems to me. is extremely slim. for these reasons. madam president. i would hope that this particular provision would be dropped. i do  think it should be in the trade bill. if they want to bring it up some other time we will go through the same arguments but certainly weshould  -hold up a trade bill that i think has potential of being a good one. i want to thank the chair.
. i thank the chairman of the finance committee for his willingness to reconsider this issue. and i k the restaurateurs in his state would be as grateful as those in mine if we could accomplish some changes here. as the chairman well ks. restaurateurs have been subject to. a number of adverse tax changes in recent years. including the cumbersome tip reporting system and the 20percent reduction in the business meal. deduction. furthermore. it strikes me as completely inequitable for the. government to attribute tip income to the employer for payroll purposes. but. deny that it is wages or remuneration for employment for purposes such as meeting the requirements of the minimum wage. the government ought . to be able to play heads. i win. tails you lose with its laws. restaurateurs who are mostly smaller. independent operators. will be forced to change payroll accounting for possibly millions of employees when this legislation takes effect 3 short weeks from . the national. restaurant. association tells me it could cost a mediumsize restaurant over $10.000 a year to pay this new tax. with many companies midway through their. fiscal year and with such a short time between congressional action and. the january i effective date. it. would seem reasonable at. a bare. minimum that we delay the effective date if we cant find. a way to drop it altogether. ir thank the chairman for his consideration of this issue and urge. him to pursue whatever options are available to him to convert this situation..
. in the excitement of the aftern and the intensity of the debate. let us  lose sight of a large group of people out there who need these benefits. there is a genuine need for these benefits. i believe the benefits as set forth in the original catastrophic bill were the right ones. i k the argument then came about paying for them. and somehow the nation suddenly believed that everybody who filed an income tax return. who was over 65. was going to pay $800 additional. that simply in  true. but. etheless. that is the belief out there. so we do  have the supplemental premium. i believe that is probably what brought down the prior amendment. the fact there was a supplemental premium. i believe those who are elderly want these benefits. and. under this program. they have the opportunity to obtain them. i believe this is a good
. the level of national savings in the united states has been steadily decreasing in recent years. reversing this trend should be one of the top priorities of congress. during the 1970s. the united states saved. on average. almost 8 percent of its national income. by the mid1980s198587however. the average savings rate had declined to only 2.1 percent of national income. such a low rate is unprecedented for periods of ecoic expansion.  only in the united states. but in all industrialized nations. according to the national income and products accounts compiled by the commerce department. americans have actually spent more than they have received in spendable income in each of the last 4 years. in 1987. the truly personal component of the savings rate reached a low of negative 2.5 percent. senator baucus and i. as the senate cochairs of the congressional competitiveness caucus. have been studying the effect of our low savings rate on our ability to compete successfully in the global market. the budget deficit and overconsumption by all americans during the 1980s have caused our reliance of foreign investment to provide most of the investment capital necessary for our businesses and ecoy to continue expanding. americas low national savings rate is directly related to our large. unsustainable budget and trade deficits. the ecoic independence of america. continues to be threatened as individuals. corporations. and the federal government live beyond their means. as long as this trend continues. the mortgaging of american real estate. factories. banks. and techogy to foreign interests will continue. given the magnitude of this problem. government policies should be carefully scrutinized to ensure they encourage saving over consumption by both the federal government and the private sector. our attention should be focused on increasing the supply of domestic investment capital. thus improving the international competitiveness of american businesses and continuing the ecoic growth we have experienced over the past 7 years. for these reasons. i believe it is vitally important to take steps to increase our savings rate. the most direct method of increasing national savings is to reduce the federal budget deficit. which must continue to be our top priority. in addition. senator baucus and i are introducing a new type of incentive that will help increase national savings and reduce federal debt owed to foreign creditors. under our proposal zerocoupon super savings bonds essbsl to encourage saving among working men and women. these super savings bonds would be negotiable with a maturity of 12 years and would be available only through payroll deductions. ssbs could be promoted and sold. at a discount. by banks and other financial institutions in small deinations ranging from $50 to $500. with a limit of $500 in face value per worker during any month. these bonds could be redeemed at any time after 5 years from the issuance date. when they are redeemed. the accrued interest income would be taxed as ordinary income. this new type of bond has several features that should encourage increased saving. first a substantial increase over the rate currently offered on savings bonds. this should serve as a valuable incentive to all households. regardless of tax bracket. to increase their saving efforts. second. the use of payroll deductions should promote a regular pattern of saving. rather than solely encouraging reshuffling current savings. third. the introduction of these new bonds could become part of a widespread public campaign to encourage increased saving. currently. over 47.500 companies have made payroll deduction plans available to their employees for the purchase of u.s. savings bonds. in 1988. 6.6 million employees participated in such plans. purchasing savings bonds totaling over $3 billion. i believe our proposal will attract millions of new savers and billions of dollars in new savings through ssbs. i hope we can move swiftly on this proposal and make super savings bonds the first step in a national campaign to increase personal. corporate. and government savings. ssbs will provide working men and women with an opportunity to help the nation regain its ecoic competitiveness and independence. while also improving their own financial security.* by mr. riegle (for himself and mr. levyn):
. when congress revised the individual estimated tax payment safe harbor last ember. i was concerned that we were adding a level of complexity to the law that was unnecessary. prior to that time. the law contained two fairly simple methods for determining an individuals estimated tax payments. the first requires the taxpayer to pay 90 percent of the current years income tax liability. but in many instances. taxpayers are unable to accurately estimate their current years income until after the year has ended. to remove this burden from small businesses. a second method allowed these taxes to be paid based on 100 percent of the tax liability for the prior year. however. a special rule was enacted last year. as part of the passage of extended unemployment benefits. which limits the availability of this safe harbor. individuals whose income increases significantly over the prior year are longer able to utilize this method. taxpayers and tax practitioners found that this new rule was overly complex. to simplify it. the bill proposes to allow all taxpayers to utilize the safe harbors that were available before last year. however. the proposal increases the prior years tax safe harbor from 100 to 120 percent. i am concerned that this increase will burden small businesses. i am sympathetic to their concerns that this proposal results in an interestfree loan to the federal government. however. i must reluctantly oppose senator bumpers amendment because it would adversely affect the deficit. i hope that a compromise can be found in the near future that will minimize the irpact of this proposal on small business men and women without increasing the deficit.
 of wilkem scientific ltd. in pawtucket: "we started our business in 1985 and during our companys first two years we paid product liability premiums of $14.000 annually. i am sure you can imagine what an unproductive drain this was on our startup capital * * 7. in lieu of using our monies to hire an employee. we had to pay this exorbitant premium. the result was that we went the first three years in business alone with other employees." a senior official at stanleybostitch wrote that "there are immense inconsistence in the handling of product liability cases from state to state. it has become increasingly difficult for me to stay on top of my responsibilities under these different state interpretations. also. i can tell you that fear of lawsuits is paralyzing american ination. the truth is. incentives for american business to stay on the cutting edge are gone." and listen to what russell devereau of artmold products said: "employing in excess of 165 rhode island residents. we feel a strong allegiance to the state and need your support of such legislation to be able to continue our successful operation in cranston. rhode island." simply put. our product liability system is threatening the survival of my states businesses--from the smallest to the largest. the current system results in less manufacturing. less productivity. less ination. and less longterm stability. is this the way we hope to ensure our national competitiveness into the next century. . why does this matter to the average american family. why does it matter to consumers that a manufacturer is putting most of its financial and human resources on legal protection and  on product development. why does it make any difference to families if businesses hesitate to develop new and promising products. answer: it matters a great deal. first of all. it matters to american men and women in terms of simple job opportunity. companies that are busy paying for legal fees do  have the wherewithal or the inclination to expand production. that means expanded employment opportunities. indeed. many companies are adoing just the opposite. and cutting back production. that means the loss of existing jobs. that is the last thing this nation needs right . second. it matters when americans go to the store to buy goods for their family. the prices consumers pay for a product often can include a substantial safety tax that goes toward covering the manufacturers litigation costs. often. safety taxes do  end up being used for legitimate payments to victims. but rather go toward paying transaction costsin other words. legal costs. finally. americans pay a great deal in terms of the worldren american ination and creativity that is lost. stifled. or paralyzed by corporate caution as a result of lawsuits. lawsuits. and more lawsuits. when u.s. companies hesitate to put their resources into a promising product development because of fears about potentially devastating liability. those new products may never be developed. as a result. americans lose the possibility of enjoying the often significant social benefit of that product. we as a society lose an opportunity to improve the quality of our--and our childrenslives. given the finanical. competitive. and social costs of a wholly unpredicable product liability system. i believe that reform must take place. the product liability bill introduced yesterday accomplishes the goal of fair and balanced reform. and i wholeheartedly support it. i compliment the tenacity of my colleagues senators rockefeller. gorton. damorth. and others. and i stand with them in their effort to enact this measure into law.0
ial election campaign through a $1 per taxpayer checkoff on the 1971 income tax returns. conservative and liberal democrats joined in an unusual display of party unity to defeat a republican effort to scuttle the plan. designed to provide $20.4 million for their debtridden partys candidate. as well as aher $20.4 million for the republicans. speaking for the republicans. we are  asking for $20.4 million. so let us put it on the table. it has hing to do with what the senators from louisiana and rhode island say. but it has a lot to do with bailing their party out of the situation it finds itself in.
it means that the candidate has violated the law and has gone over the $5.000 which he is allowed to spend and he is in violation of the law. i do  understand why there is great concern in this matter. we have budgetary procedures as senators when we budget the moneys of the united states. the problem arisesand i take it on my own shoulders and do  point the finger at anyone elsebecause the budgetary procedures in our own campaigns are simply horrendous. we do  follow budgetary procedures. and we should do so from the day that we get in the first dollar until we are through collecting funds. we have to match the income with the outgo.
 nixon made his pledge that there would be new taxes for 4 years. i thought. "well. that is a rather strange pledge to make if. all of a sudden. we were confronted with an overwhelming need for some beneficial legislation pertaining to transportation. to health. to housing. or to education." i thought. "what if we should. god forbid. find ourselves in a war. how can any man make a promise that for 4 years the matter of income is going to be in a static condition. when it comes to the question of revenue." having made that criticism. i think we should also take a long look at a pledge that many members of the democratic party have made for the election of 1974. which is that we are all going to have a tax cut. apparently. that dictated some of the action on the other side of the aisle yesterday as it related to my amendment which tried to achieve equality of educational opportunity. i think that there is  a senator. democratic or republican. who does  realize that we pretty much have  had any progress in many of our national programs during the last several years. if anything. the job today is one of catching up. once again. we must move on toward these great goals. we have them as a part of our heritage. and they should be a part of our future. so how. in heavens name. is it possible at this time to start discussing a tax cut. it sounds wonderful. so far as the old election policy is concerned. but it is  honest. it does  face up to the job that has to be done. many people wonder. today. why. for example. we have the same ecoic problems we have had for years. i point out that we are still suffering some of the ecoic backlog of vietnam. we are in the particular situation where we had a major war for 6 years. and yet we never raised 1 additional cent of revenue to wage it. obviously. when we do that. we are going to have to go ahead and ravage every sector of the ecoy. which is what was done. even though we saw our dead and we saw our wounded at an earlier time. we failed to come to grips with the ecoic fact that if we are going to wage war. we have to pay for it. i think it is unfairmanifestly unfairon the part of the democratic leadership to advocate a policy under which the american people are  going to be given all the facts. to go back to the old politics during election year and to say that there is going to be a tax cut is exactly that: it is  giving to the american people all the facts. we are just given in this election year that traditional promise. that "golden oldie." of a tax cut. there is sense in promising such a plank in the platform. my advice to the people is: "do  stand on that plank. because it is rotten. one can stand there very long if we accept that particular concept." yesterday we were advised that busing is the solution to resolving the equality of educational opportunity. i do  agree. but neither did i feel it was correct for us to tell the courts what they could or could  do. so i tried to offer a legislative alternative. granted. it was  the entire answer. but certainly one would deny the fact that if we did take an additional course to spend in the area of education it might eventually make busing unnecessary. what i said. in effect. is that we could choose busing if we wanted to. or we could just spend the additional money and pay the additional taxes to end the need for busing. the only choice we have  is of doing hing or telling the courts what they can or can do. i thought my bill sounded like pretty sensible legislation. as a matter of fact. i had some wonderful speeches from the democratic side of the aisle as to the fact that what i said was great. then somebody pushed a button on the other sidethe democratic sidethat is when i knew for sure that the democratic party has committed itself to a tax cut. they said. "senator. we could have supported you if you had said that the money for the additional educational funding would come from the defense budget or from oil depletion allowances. but we have committed ourselves to a tax cut." let us stop kidding the american people on that count. let us assume that there might be a little more unnecessary spending in the defense budget. assume that we could have eliminated the oil depletion allowance. there is  egh money in those programs to finance an adequate educational program. never mind housing. or health. or transportation. we can deceive the people in the matter of decent health care. and so far as the american people are concerned. this is a matter of right.  of privilege. what is happening is just a lot of political demogoguery. and it is really adding insult to injury to say. "you are going to be able to do all these things with a tax cut." it is unfair. the american people have to make a choice. i am  going to foist my opinion on my constituents. i want to hear from them. do they want a decent mass transit system. for example. we k that for some 25 years we have put 95 percent of our transportation funds into highways. we have hing but automobiles. we have buses. we have rail system. what does anyone think it is going to cost to produce decent mass transit in this country. i think the house of representatives has a bill before it  that calls for $30 billion. and there is department. agency whose budget we can cut to produce that type of money. it is clear that americans have a choice. they can say. "we want mass transit. but we just do  want to pay the money it is going to cost to build it." fair egh. or. if you want to discuss the quality of educational opportunity. as i did yesterday. it is fair egh to say. " i do  want to pay the money it will cost." the only trouble there is. we are then at the mercy of the courts and what they dictate to achieve equal educational opportunity. whether it is busing or any other tool. or. in the field of health care. you can say. "i want the best of care for myself. but i do  want to pay the cost for the poor. or the elderly who can be wiped out with one catastrophic illness." but the one thing we are  going to do in this election campaign is go out and say. "you can have the best health program in the world. you can have the best mass transit in the world. you can have a roof over every americans head. you can have equality of educational opportunity. and with all of that. a tax cut." i suggest that neither in the way of inflation.  in the way of achieving our national goals. is that solution practicable. everyone shrinks from the word "taxes." i do  like them. one likes them. but has anyone ever figured out that it is possible. if we make the investment in these various programs. that it is  money down the drain. every dollar in taxes spent in these areas can bring back $10. $12. $15 worth of income insofar as jobs are concerned. this country is in an absolute stalemate right . with interest rates soaring. with homebuilding coming to an absolute dead halt. with unemployment rising. do you mean to tell me the solution to all this is to sit back in our homes and accept the benefits of a tax cut. there is easy way to get this country moving. if it is to be done. it will require some sacrifice. but it is a sacrifice that will come back to benefit each one of us.
. i would like to commend senators randolph and stafford for their efforts in expeditiously reporting out the public works employment act. it is a good bill. it is a fair bill. the committee has worked out the previous pitfalls that had brought some controversy to the public works program and i am particularly pleased with the way they handle the question of how to allocate the funds amongst the states. the compromise formula the committee devised properly reflects the original purpose of the public works employment act. the original act. public law 94369. instructed the secretary of commerce in preparing rules and regulations to take into account the "relative needs of various sections of the country" and the "severity and duration of unemployment in proposed project areas." the amendment proposed by senator heinz gives consideration to severity or duratioo of unemployment in a state. i would like to point out that the impact of a high unemployment rate in a state could be devastating to the overall health of the states ecoy. thus two states. with the same number of people unemployed could be facing vastly different ecoic conditions. states with very high unemployment rates. such as connecticut. with an unemployment rate of 9.5 percent. are suffering from a multitude of problems including eroding tax bases and a steady decrease in population and skilled labor force. the public works employment act can help to alleviate the fiscal burden that these states are carrying during this most difficult time. the purpose of title i of s. 427 is to provide construction jobs immediately. these funds are specifically targeted to skilled construction workers who have recently been laid off because of the present ecoic downturn. there are currently 620.000 skilled construction workers out of work in the united states. in connecticut alone. we have 18.000 unemployed construction workers. under the heinz amendment. connecticut would receive only 1.8 percent of the funds allocated to the states even though connecticut has 3 percent of the total unemployed construction workers located in its state. this is  an equitable amendment. it is important to e that title i is  designed to provide for job training. the purpose of this bill is  to correct structural unemployment. hopefully. through a youth employment program or the extension of ceta. we can begin to tackle the even sadder problems of unemployment among the young. the miities and the elderly. although i think this body should continue to seek new avenues of ecoic stimulation. i believe the public works jobs program is among the ways to put people back to work. critics have labeled this program as "leafraking" and a "giveaway." it is far from that. it is building bridges. town meeting halls and schools for all to enjoy. these projects have lasting value. but even more lasting is the dignity that is returned to that person who picks up his paycheck instead of his unemployment check. public works is  just putting people back to work but it is saving lives. that is why i hope we can put aside our parochialism for today and vote to put the money where the need isthe greatest.
. i will try to give the background of the question first and then direct certain questions to the chairman of the committee in attempting to establish the record. mr. stewart. pursuant to parsons instructions. lent $130.000 to comac. thus. stewart had a financial interest in the success of the parsons group. mr. stewart. in testimony before the sec. admits that the landlord "raised the question of comacs creditworthiness. because it was a private partnership." accordingly the landlord would  rent to comac. comac. in fact. had assets. its partners did  make a capital contribution. instead. they lent money to the partnership. the company was  intended to be a profitmaking entity. but instead it invested in controversial assets. held the asset. and then turned the asset over to a newly formed partnership. because comacs only income was from consulting fees. it had to rely on loans to make its investments. mr. parsons. in response to great pressure from interested outsiders. set up an investment hierarchy. each of the 11 original partners was given an opportunity to invest in the entity which was formed to own the asset. outsiders who were willing to loan "working capital" to comac was given an opportunity to become limited partners in the new .partnership. according to a "pecking order" instituted by parsons. yet. despite the fact that comac was debt financed. mr. stewart recommended that creative assume primary liability on a $3.5 million lease for 14.000 square feet of office space. while creative only had 6 employees. this lease was entered into with the understanding that comac would sublet 80 percent of the space. was there a written understanding between comac and creative that comac would sublet 80 percent of this space at the time comac entered into the lease.
that. i can assure you. comes as a relief. i surmised. really. as much. because i ice it was  on the back of plain brown wrapping paper. it was. indeed. printed and this would have had to have been done at some earlier date. but i think the whole scenario within a period of 24 hours shows very clearly how illthought out this whole measure is. both in terms of substance and in terms of procedure.  we have one additional difficulty. somebody all of a sudden had bells ring in their head and they said. "my goodness. if we go ahead and authorize this. dont you think we ought to do some appropriating." very smart. very smart. that usually is the procedure around here. whatever it is you authorize. you have to in tandem appropriate. and so this aftern. we have had some appropriations hearings going on in the house and tomorrow morning the full appropriations committee will meet. i agreed to 9 oclock meetings of the senate subcommittee on state. justice. and commerce appropriations.  wishing to interpose any delay in the process. but. i mean. is this a deliberative process that is involved here or is it an attempt to rush this legislation through the senate for reasons of bad substance. and if. indeed. we -pass the authorizations bill out here. what happens to the appropriations. the senate rules require 3 calendar days before it can come up. i predicted earlier. in response to queries from the press. that we would finalize this whole situation probably by midjanuary. and  because of filibustering or delaying. but merely in order to have the case clearly and consistently and permanently set before the congress as a matter of substance and merely trying to use the wellestablished practices of the congress to assure that there are mistakes. i remember when the chrysler loan started off. it was a matter of guarantees. it was a matter of conditions. and all these builtin safeguards. and in the heat of the moment--be it the heat of chrysler rapidly fading from the scene. or the heat of congress trying to get out on vacation. or the heat of the politicians well serving their constituencies and the voters--all of a sudden every safeguard and guarantee goes out the window. oh. you see. this is what happens. longer any conditions at all. unconditional. $500 million. collateral. only one thing wrong here. it is all chryslers collateral. and yet we are being asked to collateralize chrysler with the taxes of my and my colleagues constituents. i hope that. regardless of the various positions in this chamber on the matter of the loan. at least to this aspect of it. we say  i have  even had the opportunityand i do  intend to do it  because. hopefully. we will be able to get to a point sometime when i can argue against a billand i still do  k what bill i am arguing against yet--and read my onening statement. but i do k that whatever arguments are contained in it. they will all apply and they apply double to this proposal. i remind my colleagues that this is  money belonging to us. it is  money belonging to the carter administration. it is  money belonging to the uaw. this is taxpayers money. and you are asking the worker in connecticut. illis. ohio. and across the country to take risks with his hardearned money that bank. investment house or any other financial institution would be willing to take with theirs. that is  only unfair. it seems to me to clearly violate the fiduciary obligation that rests upon each one of us in the handling of our constituents money. if we were a trustee for an individual. would we  be liable. as a trustee. if we advocated this investment. clearly. the answer is yes. and the distinguished senator from michigan. as an attorney. ks that. so what is it. when we become u.s. senators. that changes that very basic obligation in the handling of other peoples money. what is it. when we throw the robe of politics over our function. that makes it possible for us to act less on behalf of those whose money we are using. i agree with the distinguished senator from wisconsin. if the collateral is all that great. do  get the taxpayers of the various states to loan their money on the basis of collateral. get those who are in the business of loaning money and that have money. of course. that will weaken the situation. insofar as the other aspect of the loan is concerned. if there are all these assets with such great value. then why . chapter 11. why . if  chapter 11. selling off those assets and concentrating the assets into the business in a smaller form. why  any of these alternatives. rather than to ask the man on the street to participate in this risk. i remember full well when the matter was first broached to the administration. i remember the horror of secretary miller and the president and everyone as to what was proposed. and that they were going to sit there and insist on a specific program of action. in terms of management decisions. in terms of condition collateral. and all the rest. all out the window this aftern. $500 million. conditions. is it that in the backroom. when this $525 million package was devised. that this was an integral part of it. obviously. yes. if it is unimportant or an afterthought. why then part of that agreement. proponents of the legislation k as i do. as does the uaw. the administration. as does chrysler. that clearly these moneys are to be used. and when they are used. the risk is established. somebody said to me. "senator. why the appropriations process. after all. this is only a loan guarantee." i will tell you why. because the u.s. government in its bookkeeping assumes the worst case. and that is good bookkeeping. the worst case is that chrysler is going to go under and the u.s. government is going to have to ante up. in other words. the taxpayer. the little man. is going to have to ante up. but this time. you have denuded him. he has protection at all. e.  even the good judgment of 100 u.s. senators. if the previous vote is any indication. i iced where even secretary miller made the statement. "a small amount of money for a short period of time. so long as it is fully secured." "so long as it is fully secured." the difficulties that confront the two senators from michigan are that the more they extoll the collateral of chrysler for this $500 million bridge loan. the weaker their arguments for a $1.5 billion loan. that is a very tight rope to walk. the alternative is to say it is  collateralized. which probably is closer to the truth. again. i would hope that serious consideration would be given by the author of this amendment. and those who are bargaining away our peoples money. that this aspect of the chrysler loan be withdrawn. i can assure you. . to more and more. we do  even have a chrysler loan yet. we do  even have one yet. and we want more. it is an addiction. the wall street journal put it very. very well indeed. in their editorial of today. "laetrile for chrysler." i ask unanimous consent that the article be printed in the record at this point.
i thank the distinguished chairman of the committee. . i should like to pay tribute to the chairman of the subcommittee. i believe most of my colleagues k that there are times when i become exasperated with the inconsistency that has developed on this floor and in the various committees relative to the income and outgo of government moneys. i can say this about the chairman: he is consistent. i might add that it is a consistency that sometimes draws us into disagreement. there is hypocrisy here at all. he has applied the same rules to himself and the subcommittee. when he speaks from the budget committee podium. as he applies to the rest of the u.s. senate. and i admire that. it is one thing to be in disagreement. that is what we are all here for. to some degree or other. but the fact is that on the broad principles on which we differ. there should be a consistency and something called true to form. and that fritz hollings is. so i pay special tribute to him in his capacity as chairman of the subcommittee and say to him. as part of my praise of his efforts. that. agree or . i admire intellectual integrity and consistency. and that he has.
i thank my distinguished colleague from new mexico. as was pointed. about 94 percent of the presidents request has been granted. is everyone afraid to move as far as the remaining 6 percent is concerned. everyone talks about a mandate. i k about the mandate of the election of 1980. i will tell you what the mandate was. it was very simple and narrow. it was a rejection of an incumbent president who was perceived as being incompetent. that is  1. and.  2. the blue collar workers in this country. most of whom are democrats. either were out of work and wanted to get back into the work force or wanted to have their paycheck mean something. so it was narrow in an ecoic sense. we did  go ahead. the nation did  go ahead and vote against education. we did  vote against the cities. we did  vote against the poor. and we did  vote against those that are ill. there was rejection of the social .conscience that is this country. and my friends on this side of the aisle make a big mistake if they misinterpret those election results because. believe me. we will be a majority for a very few days indeed. i hope that everyone is through clicking their heels and obeying orders from on high. that we all start to function as u.s. senators and understand what it is that our constituencies look for. understand. for example. that if an ecoics argument is made on this floor on the basis of inflation and the ecoy. we will stand up and say. all right. defense spending is the most inflationary of all. one is seeking to cut back on defense. what we are saying is apply the same criteria to defense as we have in every other program of government which has gone under the microscope. do  just take your cues from someones campaign or philosophical slogans. indeed what is at fate here is  a political party but human lives. if we can cut back in some of these areas. and education stands out in my mind. decisions made for 1 year or 2 will have their impact 10 years. 12 years. and 15 years from . then we will  be able to catch up. so i hope that we join on both sides of the aisle in passing this amendment and restoring the senate as an equal partner in the decisionmaking process rather than continuing to go by the teutonic philosophy that orders are orders. the mind is what is important.  the ability to raise ones hand in agreement.
the senator is correct. by doubling the funding for womens bureau special projects. i would certainly expect the displaced homemakers network to share in the increase. it is my understanding that the labor department has finally extended funding for the displaced homemakers network through program year 1984. at $200.000. it is my hope that the womens bureau will expeditiously work out funding for program year 1985. as soon as fiscal 1985 appropriations are available. in order to retain the forward funded nature of this program.
the senator is correct. by doubling the funding for womens bureau special projects. i would certainly expect the displaced homemakers network to share in the increase. it is my understanding that the labor department has finally extended funding for the displaced homemakers network through program year 1984. at $200.000. it is my hope that the womens bureau will expeditiously work out funding for program year 1985. as soon as fiscal 1985 appropriations are available. in order to retain the forward funded nature of this program.
. i am pleased to cosponsor the orphan drug amendments of 1985. which will extend authority for the research and development of drugs for socalled orphan diseases. the incentive provided by the orphan drug act first passed by the 97th congress has already increased the efforts being made in research for and the bringing to market. of new drugs which will alleviate the suffering of people who are afflicted by relatively rare diseases. this reauthorization will extend the cooperation between government and the private sector for 3 years. providing authority for the grant and contract program for the research and development of these drugs. the bill also establishes a national commission on orphan diseases that will assess the needs and opportunities for research on rare diseases. i also want to voice my particular support for my amendment to this bill which will correct a seemingly mi. but very important drafting error in the fiscal year 1985 department of education appropriations act. this correction will require new money. but will allow money already appropriated to be spent on june 1. 1985 instead of july 1. 1985. unless this correction is made. 705 applications to train personnel involved in providing services to handicapped children will be unnecessarily delayed. this delay would disrupt training programs. require additional resources. and ultimately impair the quality of services offered to special education children. i commend my colleague from utah . chairman of the labor and hurhan resources committee. for assisting in correcting this error.
. robert e. tripp. of alexandria. va. recently retired from the department of labor budget office after 15 years of service there. bob is a native of washington. dc. having been born within the federal city in the old providence hospital here on capitol hill. he has spent most of his life in the washington area. except for military service. and schooling at the university of denver. where he received his bachelors degree. bobs entire federal career spanned 32 years and included. in addition to military service. posts at the civil service commission office of personnel managementat the national aeronautics and space administration. at the commerce departments office of foreign direct investment. and at the office of ecoic opportunity. while his career was varied. and indicative of the multiple talents of the man. bobs last tour of duty. in the department of labor budget office. was the longest. and the position in which he became most kn for his invaluable service  only to his department but also to congressional appropriations committee staffs for the last eight congressional sessions. those who have dealt with bob k him to be a most competent and professional civil servant. his assignment in the budget office was the departments employment and training programs. which have undergone extensive changes in format and funding levels over the period of bobs tenure. he never failed to provide expert assistance in the understanding of the complicated budget numbers for these programs. and became kn as "the expert" on the detailed appropriations for these accounts. bob. speaking on behalf of the members of the appropriations subcommittee and its staff members whom you have so ably assisted over the years. thank you  only for a job well done. but for a job done superbly with consistent professionalism. good luck in your future endeavors.
i also appreciate the concern of my colleagues from rhode island and arkansas for this critical program. as he correctly ed. the health care for the homeless reauthorization bill was unanimously approved by the labor and human resources committee with full bipartisan support and has been passed by the senate. the reauthorization bill calls for continuation of the 109 programs currently funded using the fiscal year 1987 appropriation of $46 million as well as to allow for some new startup programs. unfortunately. we were unable to provide for this level of funding in the labor. hhs. education appropriation bill as our subcommittee received a 302(b) allocation which was $600 million below that called for by the budget resolution. i certainly would support the senators call for additional funding and will work toward that end in the conference committee.
 nixon. in summary. i urge the distinguished members of this committee to carefully consider adopting the employment tax credit proposals before you for three reasons: first. it produces more jobs at lower costs to the american taxpayer than the other proposals before you. second. it will have a direct and immediate impact on our ecoy. and third. its impact is  dependent on the acquisition of capital goods and therefore it reaches service industries which are  affected by the job development credit. the present high level of unemployment can be tolerated.  only does it represent a waste of valuable resourcesboth in ecoic and human termsbut it also constitutes a drain on the american spirit which can be permitted at this or any other time. because excess plant and equipment capacity exists in many industries and because of the leadtime involved witb capital expenditures. it is imperative that we consider proposals in addition to the job development credit which are more precisely designed to eliminate unemployment today rather than waiting until the problem takes care of itself. the cost of failing to act can be seen in the faces of unemployed workers throughout the country. we can and must act tonight to address this problem.
. the fundamental purpose of the bill we are  considering is to stimulate the ecoy by increasing spending power of individuals and families. evidence shows that lowincome families are those most likely to spend. rather than save. money gained from the tax credit. yet it is exactly those families who will be denied additional money under the bill. title ii of h.r. 2166. as presently written. will deny any additional income to working families who receive afdc or ssi payments because those payments will be reduced by the amount of the credit received. approximately 1.3 million heads of families receiving afdc will be thus affected by section 203(c) of the present bill. under section 402(a) (7) of the social security act. in determining eligibility for aid to families with dependent children. the state agency must take into consideration any other income which. unless specifically excluded. would include any tax credit received. under section 1611 (a) of the social security act. in determining eligibility for supplemental security income paymentsaid to aged. blind. and disabledthe state agency must take into consideration all earned and unearned income except that specifically excluded in section 1612(b). that tax rebates or credits are to be considered as income unless specifically exempted can be concluded from section 1612(b) (5) which specifically does exempt refunds of taxes paid on real property or on food. section 203(c) of the senate version of h.r. 2166 specifically states that the tax credit must be counted as income for the purposes of determining eligibility for aid to families with dependent children. however. it is clear that. even without the specific language of section 203(c). the tax credit would be counted as income for both afdc and ssi recipients and. therefore. result in a reduction of their grants. it has been argued that this will result in a savings to the states. in fact. states will realize little if any gains since the administrative burden of recomputing welfare grants in the month that the credit is received will be costly to the states in terms of staff and time. the effect of h.r. 2166 on the welfare system will be to add just one more disincentive to work. in a system which already has little in it to encourage employment. the net effect of the bill may be more than just a dollarfordollar reduction in benefits. in fact. the credit. considered as income. may end eligibility for any cash assistance. which in turn would end eligibility for medicaid and. in some states. for food stamps. further. since hew currently allows states to consider as income any resources available to the recipient. the state may reduce or terminate the welfare grant. whether or  the recipient applies for the tax credit. section 203(c) should be stricken from the senate bill. in its place. the amendment which i am offering contains specific language making clear that any payments made by reason of section 43 shall  be taken into account as income. receipts. or resources for purposes of determining the eligibility of such individual or any other individual for benefits or assistance. or the amount or extent of benefits or assistance. under any federal program or under any state or local program financed in whole or in part with federal funds. -in conclusion i would emphasize that this amendment adds hing to the cost of this bill. it simply strikes a section which would discourage our poor from working.
i want to get on. . the primary purpose of the tax reduction bill is to return purchasing power to the american people so that. in turn. their purchases could stimulate a badly sagging ecoy. since the introduction of this bill. its original thrust has been significantly changed in one respect: it  places greater emphasis on returning buying power to those in the lower income bracketsthose who need it the most. i commend the distinguished chairman of the finance committee for the socalled work bonus. which he developed and which is included in the committee amendment. this proposal will go a long way to providing relief for working americans at the lower end of the income scale. there is an aaly. however. in title ii of the present bill. title ii of h.r. 2166. as presently written. denies any real tax credit relief to those working families who are eligible for afdc and ssi benefits. and may cause them to lose their eligibility for food stamps and medicaid as well. the tax credit which the government gives them with one hand. it takes away with the other. as their government assistance is reduced by the amount of the credit received. i would emphasize that we are so punishing only those poor people on govemnment assistance who work. who attempt to better their own and their familys lives. i can imagine why we should so wish to destroy their incentive to work. afdc families alone demonstrate the unfortunate effects of section 203(c): 3.3 million families receive afdc benefits. of these 3.3 million. almost 1.3 million heads of families work for at least some part of the year and would be adversely affected by the present provisions of this tax bill. under section 402(a) (7) of the social security act. in determining eligibility for aid to families with dependent children. the state agency must take into consideration any other income which. unless specifically excluded. would include any tax credit. received. thus. the 4a percent. of afdc family heads- who work would be discouraged from working. in aher program. supplemental security income.. eligibility for supplemental security income paymentsaid to aged. blind. and disabledis determined by the state taking into consideration all earned and unearned income except that specifically excluded in section 1612(b) of the social security act. that tax rebates or credits are to be considered as income unless specifically exempted can be concluded from section 1612(b) (5) which specifically does exempt refunds of taxes paid on real property or on food. i would hope that the senate would  discourage those blind and disabled who- choose to work. section 203(c) of the senate version of h.r. 2166 specifically states that the tax credit must. be counted as income for the purposes of determining eligibility for aid to families with dependent children. however.. it is clear that. even without the specific language of section 203(c.). the tax credit would be. counted as income for both afdc. and ssi recipients. and therefore result in a reduction of their grants. those who purchase food stamps and the millions on medicaid could also have their eligibility for these programs threatened or ended. therefore. what. we are talking about in this bill may be mare than just. a dollarfordollar reduction. for the credit. considered as income. may end eligibility for any cash assistance. which in turn would end eligibility for medicaid and. in some states. for food stamps. section 203(c) should be stricken from the senate bill in its place. the amendment which i am offering contains specific language making clear that any payments made by reason of section 43 shall . be. taken into account. as incon_ receipts.. or resources for purposes of determining the eligibility of such individual or any other individual for benefits or assistance. or the amount or extent of benefits or assistance. under any federal program or under any state or local program financed. in whole or in part. with federal funds. in conclusion i would emphasize that this amendment adds hing to the cost of this bill. it might prevent some reductions in the costs. of welfare--at most $i0(l million. that is a small price to pay in this bill for justice for those welfare recipients who. are trying to work and achieve as much independence as they can.
. the pending conference report on the emergency employment act supplemental appropriation is designed to strengthen the nation in its battle against the worst unemployment since the beginning of world war ii. both the house and the senate agreed to provide $1.625 billion for public service jobs. more money to employ the old and the young and funds to expand a workstudy program for college students. these and other provisions are included in the section of the bill developed by our laborhew subcommittee where i serve as ranking miity member. i want to compliment our chairman. senator magnuson. for his leadership in our conference with the house. i believe we did well because of his efforts. for example. we succeeded in adding $44 million for the summer jobs for youth program for a total of $456 million. this will provide about 840.000 jobs as against 760.000 provided last year. all of us k how vital this program is. particularly in large urban areas. moreover. our consciences will  permit us to neglect the employment needs of our young people who suffer under a 40 percent jobless rate. in this regard. the conference report also provides $15.3 million. the same level as last year. for the summer youth recreation program. and $1.7 million to transport young people to and from recreation sites and summer jobs. i am particularly pleased the house agreed to a portion of my amendment to increase funds for a program of parttime jobs for lowincome workers age 55 and older. the amount added in conference is $6 million. which together with $24 million provided by the house and $12 million previously appropriated provide a program level of $42 million. the $42 million will create about 12.700 jobs for the elderly who too often are the last hired and the first fired during periods of ecoic downturn. the house also agreed to our amendment to prevent layoffs in the operation mainstream portion of the older workers program while assuring that others who are participating. or will participate. in the program do  suffer as a result. it is our intention that this mantle of protection for all parts of the program be maintained for up to 9 months of the new fiscal year with the funds available in this bill. after that it is our further intention to maintain at least that level of operations for the remaining months of fiscal 1976 through funds available in the labor department appropriation for the coming fiscal year. i am glad the house also agreed to our amendment to the work incentive program which is funded at the $70 million level in this bill. the amendment permits states to be reimbursed from the $70 million for fiscal 1974 expenses in excess of the grants they received for that year. aher amendment agreed to by the house permits the carryover of surplus basic opportunity grant money for college students. this action will swell the average grant available to students next fall from $700 to $785. our bill also provides $119.8 million for the college workstudy program which. like the appropriation for public service jobs. was  a matter of dispute between the two houses. . i believe our chapter of this bill will make an important contribution to alleviating the unemployment that presently afflicts our nation. i urge the adoption of chapter iv of the conference report.
as a result of exhaustive hearings. we have found that we only are taking care of about 5 percent of the nations business in our inspections at the present time. with the inspection force we have. by putting in the $10 million and the 833 inspectors. together with the other inspections we have provided for. it would increase the percentage only to 7 percentjust a 2 percent increaseand would add aher 10.000. inspections which would move it from 120.000 inspections to 130.000 inspections. so. obviously. there is a great need for additional inspectors in order to carry on these inspections. in order to improve the incentive for employers to make their places of employment safe for employees. what the senator would do would be to deprive us of those 833 additional inspectors and thereby maintain inspections of the nations businesses only at 5 percent. . this is a backward step. if osha is to be effectiveand i am sure that the senator from kansas and we all want it to be effectivewe need more inspectors.  fewer. the bill contained $5 million for consultations last year and only $3 million of the $5 million was used. i do  k if the senator is aware of that. but only $3 million of that $5 million last year was used. apparently. the employers response to utilize this new service of consultation was  very great. since this is a new program. we should see what happens to the $5 million for consultations included in the bill this year before we seek expansion of the consultation services. the senators amendment would add an additional $10 million to the $5 million which is already in the bill. making a total of $15 million for consultation. that. in my opinion. is just too much money. it can be used. it will  be used. uficially. we understand that all the department of labor can possibly use is $7 million at the most in fiscal 1976 for consultations. the extra $2 million should be available through reprogramming of excess state grant money. in addition to that. i point out to the distinguished senator. in 22 states that operate their own osha programs. they are allowed to use whatever portion of their state grants they feel is necessary for consultation services with employers. there is $38 million in the budget for these states. so there is that money in addition to the $5 million that we have put into this bill for consultation . the point is. very simply stated. that we are. by the senators amendment. putting money into a program where we already have more money than we can possibly use. considerably more money. on the other hand. we are  putting egh money where the money is really needed in order to make the program successful. it is for this reason that i can accept the senators amendment. i shall have to oppose the amendment vigorously. i think the effect of this amendment would be seriously to impairi shall  overuse the word "gut"-the effectiveness of this program. a program which is sorely needed in this country and which is just beginning to get into operation. we made an amendment to it yesterday. as the senator very well ks. when we decreased the penalty on serious violations from $1.000 to $50. if we go any further along this line with osha. i feel that we will be doing a great disservice to the american worker in this country.
we were told by the labor department that this could be done.  1. but i think the point we ought to make to the distinguished senator from new york. and i k he is concerned. is that under title vi. as i understand it. we could vote jobs when there was 4.5 percent and above unemployment.
the secretary of labor annced at 10 a.m. today that discretionary money which he administers will be released to 44 cities throughout the united states to alleviate some of the problems of disadvantaged youth for summer jobs and job training.
. i am gravely concerned that sectional and parochial interests may obscure the true purposes of this massive infusion of federal dollars in a public works jobs program. the intent--both of congress and of the administrationis that these moneys be utilized primarily in areas of chronic. sustained. and severe unemployment. their principal purpose is  the beautification of town squares. the greening of suburbs. or the provision of a boondoggle for municipal construction in areas of relatively low rates of unemployment. unfortunately. in the last jobs program bill. eda inadvertently funded some less meritorious projects which will  have great impact in needy areas which desperately require efforts to increase employment opportunities. i recall. as other senators may recall. that one such case was mound bayou. miss. mound bayou. miss.. is a town of some 2.000 people. with an annual budget of $200.000. and they got $4.9 million under the program4.9 million. while many of the large cities and some of our smaller cities with high unemployment got hing. i have great respect for the distinguished senator from pennsylvania. but i think that the adoption of the heinz formula almost guarantees that the aberrational funding by eda during the last program will become the m in this more costly extension of public works jobs. the per capita approach virtually guarantees that the emphasis will be misplaced. areas with greater population. but relatively low unemployment. will receive a windfall. while beleaguered areas like those in the heavily industrial theast. who have labored under staggering unemployment rates for the last 2 years will be shortchanged. the statistics confirm this fear. utilizing the march 1 eda figures. we find that a state like texasi dislike to disagree with our distinguished colleague from texas. but if his figures of 50 percnt unemployment are true. i do  k where mine come from. we find that a state like texas. with a vigorous ecoy in the construction sector and a very low unemployment rate of 5.2 percentto us that is a very low unemployment rate. it might be high for texas. but certainly it is  high for new york. connecticut. or massachusettswould receive slightly over $97 million under the committee formula without the durkin modification passed earlier today. however. under the per capita formula. texas receives an astounding $154 million. i just single out texas because the distinguished senator from the state has spoken on the subject most recently.
i am glad to recommend the department of labor chapterchapter iiof this ecoic stimulus bill to the senate. the appropriation for the labor department. at $9.4 billion. is the largest part of this pending measure. it provides additional funds for public service employment. jobs for the elderly. expansion of the job corps. and a number of different training and skills programs to reach youth. disabled vietnam veterans. migrant and seasonal farmworkers. indians. and those seeking apprenticeships. the purpose of these additional funds is to step up the effort to deal with the continuing high rate of unemployment which afflicts our nation. while the unemployment in march was down to 7.3 percent. there still are some 7.1 million persons out of jobs and seeking employment. this is intolerable. for selected categories of the labor force. the picture is even worse. unemployment among teenagers seldom falls below 19 percent. unemployment among all black teenagers is running at about 37 percent. and unemployment among vietnam veterans 20 to 24 years of age is at the rate of 18 percent. periods of unemployment for a third of the jobless may last as long as 15 weeks. with some 18 percent remaining idle more than 7 months. the problems of unemployment have. as we k. been exacerbated by severe winter and drought conditions. it is clear we must continue to stimulate the ecoy until unemployment is reduced substantially and the pace of recovery reaches more satisfactory levels. the major thrust of our chapter of the bill is to get more of the jobless back to work by more than doubling public service employment over the next year and a half. to do this our committee provides for expansion of public service jobs programs from the present level of 310.000 to 725.000 by fiscal year 1978. for ceta title ii. which covers areas with 6.5 percent or more unemployment. we provide $1.140 billion. the same as the house level. this will increase job slots from the present level of 50.000 to 100.000 by the end of fiscal year 1977 and to 125.000 in fiscal year 1978. for ceta title vi. which covers areas with an unemployment rate of 4.5 percent or more. we provide $6.847 billion. again the same level as the house. these funds will increase title vi public service jobs from the present base of 260.000 to 500.000 by the end of fiscal year 1977. for fiscal year 1978 the total job slot level will be increased to 600.000. we have forwardfunded both ceta titles for fiscal year 1978 to give local prime sponsors plenty of time to intelligently plan and manage the funds they will receive. we expect full cooperation from the labor department in promptly obligating these funds to the prime sponsors. the new title vi law passed by congress last year requires that new public service jobs go only to those who have been out of work 15 weeks or more. and that the new jobs be part of a project that is of more than 12 months duration. these requirements are particularly aimed at the problem of "substitution." that is. where local governments substitute federal for local funds in hiring municipal workers. since the new jobs must go to the long term unemployed and be tied to projects of short duration. it should discourage local officials from trying to use them to provide traditional local services. they will have to rely more on their own budgets for this purpose. we believe this should help reduce the "substitution" problem. and we are counting on the labor department to see to it that the requirements of the new law are enforced. i also point out that the pending supplemental includes some $5.5 billion in general revenue sharing and antirecessionary financial assistancefunds which can be used for rehiring laidoff city and county employees. this also should help reduce the "substitution" problem. we believe public service employment can be a useful tool for getting the jobless back into the labor force and for accomplishing worthwhile tasks that aid our communities. public service employment is  the role. but it certainly is a way to get the unemployed to reduce their dependence on welfare and unemployment payments which have been running exceedingly high in this period of ecoic recession. our chapter also provides: one billion dollars for a new youth employment and training program. training will be available through rural and urban youth service corps. activities will be directed to the conservation. development and management of public parks. forests and recreational areas. employment and training slots are expected to reach 154.000 in fiscal year 1978. $250 million for a new skill training improvement program designed primarily to retrain permanently displaced workers to meet industry needs for specific skills. the program is expected to provide 58.000 enrollment opportunities for this fiscal year and part of fiscal year 1978. $120 million for the socalled hire program aimed at persuading large corporations to hire and train young veterans. the funds will support a 12month program building up to 60.000 slots by a year from . $68 million to expand the job corps from its present level of 22.000 enrollment opportunities to 30.000. and $59.4 million to expand the program of jobs for lowincome older workers from 22.600 slots to 37.400. our bill continues the policy of providing that a portion of the increase in these slots go to state and local units of government. . i believe we have developed a sound and solid labor department chapter that can contribute substantially to the reduction of unemployment in our country. i urge the senate to adopt it without change.
the information. i should say. is some 2 years old. there have been many changes in the program since that time. as the senator ks. for example.  it is a program primarily for individuals who are hardcore unemployed. rather than others. certainly  those who can readily qualify for a job as a policeman or some of the clerks in some of the city halls. things of that nature. the senator is quite right. i am  wedded to the concept of public service jobs. i think the best way is to stimulate the ecoy and get our industries going so that more meaningful. more permanent jobs are created by the private sector rather than the public sector. but where we have consistently high unemployment. where even when we create 725.000 jobs we are only addressing ourselves to 10 percent of the unemployed in this country. that is the reason i can in good conscience support a funding level for 725.000 public service jobs. i believe we need them during this period. i would hope that title vi is a temporary.  a permanent. program. i think that was the intention of the human resources committee. they do  want to create title vi jobs forever. but neither do they want unemployment consistently at 7.5 percent and above that. we have sort of a crisis situation which demands the kind of solution before us at this time. when the senator talks about some of the problems with these jobs in the past. i would quite agree with him. but i think congress in its wisdom has sought to close up those legislative loopholes. we want and will get better monitoring by the department of labor than we had before. i would like to give the senator from utah some reassurance that some of the fears he has could be allayed.
so it does differ from regular revenue sharing. if unemployment drops in this country. and if the private sector does what we hope it will do. if the ecoy literally turns around and more jobs are created in the private sector. we will have the figures and we will have the data. then i do  think the committee on human resources is going to authorize. and i am sure you are  going to appropriate. for something you do  really need any longer. the only reason we ask to appropriate  is because the same crisis situation obtains today as it has for some time. we just have been going through tough times. when those tough times are over there will be necessity for either the authorization or the appropriation for ceta vi. so let us  believe we are getting ourselves into some kind of a permanent situation that we can get ourselves out of. we can. and i think we will. do it because i have that much faith in the recovery of our ecoy.
. i have been asked by the chairman of the district of columbia committee. the senior senator from nevada [mr. mccarrani. to state briefly in his absence the purpose of the bill. it relates to the district of columbia income tax. in the year 1940 the district of columbia raised about $3.400.000 by its local income tax. based on 1939 incomes. last year it raised over $4.000.000 by its local income tax. based on 1940 incomes. the bill does  change the basis of that tax. but it does correct some of its details. the purpose is to correct several mi deficiencies and to improve the administration of the tax act. there is change in the rate of tax. or in the class of individuals or corporations upon which the tax is imposed. the exemption provisions are amended so as toconform precisely to the exemption provisions in the regular federal income tax. the requirement of an affidavit to the tax return is removed. but there is inserted a penalty for making a false return. which is a little simpler procedure. the requirement of a $25 filing fee for corporations is eliminated. and a $10 annual license fee substituted. additional provision is made for information returns as to payments made to foreign corporations. and for withholding at the source of payment the tax on payments made to foreign corporations. the measure is approved by the commissioners of the district of columbia and by the corpcration counsel. and is recommended by the district of columbia committee.
. the nearest i have to that is a table showing that last year. for example. of the $4.000.000 which was collected. $2.200.000 came from corporations. although the district of columbia is  an industrial community. and approximately $1.800.000 came from individuals. many of whom are domiciled here. although they may vote elsewhere. although. as i have said. the district of columbia is  an industrial community. it contains a population that is providing. through this income tax. revenue for the local government. which would  be reached otherwise.
. i may state that the amendments. which are formal in character. are approved by the committee. and. as amended. i believe the bill simply provides a corrected formof the income tax act for the district.
i think you could say that. for i believe the committee amendment would operate in this way: those  holding taxexempt securities would find that there was an extra premium on their securities. because there would be so few of them. and there could be more of them. therefore. if anything. that would unjustly enrich them further than is  being done. if it can be regarded as unjust enrichment. on the other hand. for the future issues of our states and municipalities. it would mean that the states and municillalities would be forced to add additional sums to their future interest rates to meet the market at that time. that market undoubtedly would require higher interest payments to cover the income taxes that holders of the new bonds would be forced to pay. the proposal. therefore. would carry the full detriment of higher interest rates payable by the municipalities and the states without giving the federal government any immediate benefit to make up for this. this effort to tax income from state and municipal securities has been made in the past. because there were some who did  want the bondholders to escape federal taxes on that income. let me point out that the proposei committee amendment would  cure the defect at all as to outstanding bonds. and let me also point out that those bondholders  in possession of taxexempt bonds are already paying something to the states and cities from which they bought them. in lieu of income taxes on them. this is because the holders either bought the bonds at a premium which they regarded equivalent to the income exemptions. or they are receiving a lower rate of interest on the bonds in recognition of the fact of the tax exemption. therefore. those who are  holding these bonds are already paying. by virtue of their original purchase price or of the low income which they receive from the bonds. what is the rough equivalent to a tax in favor of the municipalities and states which issued the bonds. they do . in fact. therefore. really get the net advantage that they generally are supposed to get when it is said that they are escaping taxation. . i have been impressed by the fact that this question has been argued many times. i have also been impressed by the conclusions reached. and i wish. first of all. to cite briefly certain authorities on this very point from the congress. from the supreme court. and from civic organizations. since 1913 the congress each year has in effect passed upon this question. because in each revenue act it has expressly excluded these issues from taxation. this has been done repeatedly and should clearly represent the considered views of the congress. in 1918 and 1924 the provision was voted down on the floor of the house. in each of the last 4 years the house committee on ways and means has refused to report it favorably. although extensive hearings were held in 1939 and again in 194 2. as recently as september 19. 1940. the senate voted down the proposal 44 to 30. and many of those 44 senators are members of this body today. from the point of view of constitutionality. there have been interesting and extended arguments to the effect that it is  constitutional for the federal government to tax the income received from state and municipal securities. i believe it is  constitutional. i believe the measure  before us for consideration is  constitutional. the argument advanced by those supporting the constitutionality of this measure goes to great lengths. i wish merely to point to the fact that a decision of the supreme court clearly holds this to be unconstitutional. and that decision has  been overruled or modified in this particular. the committee. therefore. is asking us to act in direct conflict with the supreme court of the united states on the assumption that we can get the supreme court to reverse itself. on this point i cite the pollock cases. decided in 1895 (157 u. s. 429 and 158 u. s. 601). in those cases the court. although divided upon other points. unanimously denied the federal power to tax local obligations. that ruling still stands. there .have come before the supreme court new laws which tax the salaries of employees of cities and states or which tax the contractors receipts from a city or a state. the decisions which have upheld those laws have in each case distinguished such taxes from the tax in question. the reason why the court distinguishes them was well pointed out by the then solicitor general robert h. jackson.  on the supreme court. he is reported to have explained in his argument to the court the difference between the taxation of public salaries and interest on government securities. he explained it was apparent that when a tax deals with a debtor and creditor relationship it is the borrower who is burdened. which distinguishes it from the case of a tax which deals with the salary of the employee. when you tax a borrower and creditor relation. the next time the borrower offers his securities to the public his cost is increased. he is dealing with an open market. it is  regarded. and itwas so regarded in the early cases. that the federal government can directly or otherwise tax a state or a municipality. that is recognized as law. and when you tax the income from a states or citys own obligation you are doing that very thing. that is the point of the pollock cases. which expressly passed on the issue in 1895.
the federal government can do as it wishes with the income from its own securities. it can levy a tax payable to itself from the interest on its bonds and then use that tax to pay that interest on similar bonds if it wants to do so. but i am arguing about federal taxation of income from securities issued by local communities which obtain their interest funds from a different source of taxation. principally real estate taxes.
 the present amendment has relation to the taxation of income from federal securities. that point has been settled. it remains settled. the federal government can tax itself and can turn the money thus received over several times if it wishes to do so. but i believe it is fundamentally unsound for it to undertake the taxation of the income from securities issued by states and cities.
of course. there is an abmality in it. but referring to the i:art of the senators question which relates to the question before the senate as to taxation of income from future bond issues of states and municipalities. let me say that the effect would be that the interest to be paid by the local taxpayer on the bonds to be issued by his city. if  taxexempt. may well be forced up more than 1 percent. in order to make it possible to market the securities to purchasers who will have to pay the higher income taxes of the future. the effect of that would be even more damaging on the small villages and communities. than would be the case  when the present income taxes would force the interest rates up only about 1 percent.
that is an interesting question. the committee amendment provides that only those bonds issued before january 1. 1943. shall be exempt. therefore. the tax will apply only to those issued after january 1. 1943. it is obvious that at the present time municipalities and cities are restraining themselves from authorizing capital issues of bonds. so income to the federal government will come only as the coupons of new bonds are collected by their owners and the income tax is then collected from such owners. the estimate i found in the testimony before the committee was that during the first several years the federal government might get from three to five million dollars a year. in about 10 years that might be built up by a substantial issue of state and municipal bonds. and in 20 or 30 years such bond issues might about reach the point where they are . so. looking at the maximum point 20 or 30 years from . when there might be $20.000.000.000 of these bonds outstanding at that time. the federal government might be collecting. it is estimated. between $150.000.000 and $200.000.000. but for the present. and during the war practically hing. as was stated in the testimony. or almost a negligible amount.
there again i wish to comment on the extreme conservatism of the figures. the total is $2.875.000. which is substantially lower than the $3.120.000 i have just mentioned as the gross saving. and the figure. $3.120.000 could well be moved up many hundreds of thousands of dollars on a fair basis and the figure $2.875.000 could well be reduced. i can demonstrate the conservativeness of these in many ways: it appears that interest is computed at 4 percent on first cost to the united states. the revised calculations of the engineers have  reduced that to 3 percent. on the question of obsolescence. however. this change of interest has a reverse effect on that particular item. if. in computing an obsolescence item. the interest is to be compounded at 3 percent instead of 4 percent. the resulting annual allowance for obsolescence would have to be a little larger than that shown in the table. this increase. however. would  equal the reduction in the first item. coming to the next item. that of maintenance of channel at 2 v2 percent of original cost. i may point out that that is an extremely liberal maintenance charge. so liberal that in fact. in the opinion of the engineers. it eliminates the item of depreciation. because on that basis the canal would be in a hundred percent condition at all times. on the next item. maintenance and operation of seven locks and dams at $40.000 per lock and dam. the number of locks and dams has been reduced to six. and therefore it will be necessary to reduce that item by at least $40.000. for maintenance and operation of two reservoirs. the one at berlin and the one at milton. that item can  be omitted. because those reservoirs are to be operated for floodcontrol purposes. and will be otherwise charged. . similarly. turning to the charge to the local interests. that is computed at 6 percent interest on the first cost. i may say that. under their procedure. the engineers  have reduced the 6 percent rate of interest here used to 4 percent. also at the time this computation was made the capital cost to the local interests was estimated at $10.000.000. whereas  it is estimated at about $3.900.000. this amply demonstrates the extreme conservativeness of the figures on this particular feature of the project.  i may point out that there were included in the construction costs items which are based upon 1938 and 1940 rates of wages and costs of construction. this is a sound basis for the estimate as a postwar project. as a matter of fact it is the estimate used throughout the engineers reports. if it is to be criticized here as an estimate of postwar costs. then every project before the senate would have to be modified accordingly. when we come to the question of harbor facilities and facilities for unloading. i point out that they are amply provided for in house document  277. at paragraph 30 it is expressly stated thatthe cost of terminals and transfer facilities. which is  included in the above statements of cost. has been taken into account in estimating the savings by including in the costs of transportation by water. terminal and transfer charges sufficient to pay for interest and operation on these facilities. the item of interest during construction is omitted in this case in accordance with the regular practice of the engineers on a comparatively small project or where substantial benefits accrue as the project is being built. i have already listed many of the users who will benefit from this canal up and down the canal. those benefits will accrue during the construction. thereby making this item an unnecessary one. similarly. capital investment in floating equipment is also figured into the estimates of the rates for t ansportation. that brings us to the justification of the canal based on savings. showing that the savings are far in excess of those indicated in the official report. although the official reports themselves amply justify the project on an ecoic basis. i  come to a brief statement on the effect of the project on the employment of labor. the question is whether or  the project will adversely affect labor. it has been claimed in some of the discussions of this canal that somehow or other its construction might reduce employment on the railroads. or at large in the country. to greater extent than it would create employment in the operation of the canal. that is  according to the estimate of the situation as shown in the hearings in 1941. i here quote from a brief filed by j. c. argetsinger. of the youngstown sheet & tube co.. as it appears at page 57 in the house hearings of 1941. held september 3q to october 6. he said he had looked into this matter of the effect on labor in detail. the statement concludes that the building of the canal would increase rather than decrease employment. i read a few sentences from page 57. as follows: let us assume that 5.000 tons of coal (the actual pay tonnage is more than 5.000) are hauled on the average coal train. 6.000.000 tons divided by 5.000 tons means 1.200 trainloads. the witness says that this movement can be accomplished in 8 hours. so divide 1.200 by 3 shifts and you have 1 train operating 400 days. to provide for holidays. sundays. delays. and breakages. let us say that 2 trains per year are necessary. thus from a labor standpoint the work of 2 crews per year will be lost. or in the language of the rail. roads own witness. 30 employees times $1.800 per year equals $54.000 in lost wages. then. on page 58. the same witness compares this with the employment which would result from the operation of the canal. i quote: on this basis the waterway furnishes employment for 60 lock employees. 16 repairmen. and 75 employees on the towing units. or a total of 147 jobs with a pay roll of $258.000. the railroad jobs lost for this line haul movement are 30 crew members with a pay roll of $54.000. the total employment picture is benefited by the waterway to the extent of 117 jobs and $204.000 in pay roll. the witness continues. however. as follows: all of this becomes very unimportant and irrelevant. however. when we consider that the drying up of this district. even to the extent of 10 percent. because of inability to compete with lowcost water transportation already given to other districts. would throw 25.000 persons out of work. destroy over a hundred million dollars of investment. impair school. county. and state bonds. close churches and colleges. and create new problems of relief. ours is a homeowning district (steel workers here are largely home owners) and i hate to think of 25.000 families losing their homes. i wish to add also that there testified before the senate committee in 1944 representatives of organized labor in the steel mills and in the community at large in youngstown. they strongly endorsed the beaver and mahoning canal. some reference has been made. in the literature on this subject. to whether or  the national rivers and harbors congress has endorsed this project. i may point out that the president of that distinguished body is john l. mcclellan. the distinguished junior senator from arkansas. its national vice presidents are the senior senator from louisiana . and three members of the house of representatives. . i wish to conclude this statement as i began it. by saying that this is a proposal to retain in the program of the united states for its postwar program a project which has been repeatedly and soundly approved. the project has been approved by two boards of engineers. by three chiefs of engineers. twice by the committee on rivers and harbors of the house. and twice by the senate committee on commerce. it has once passed the house and once the senate. it is before us  in a form which reiterates the previous authorization. modifying it only in accordance with the recommendation of the chief of engineers increasing the federal cost by a million and a half dollars. and making the money available in accordance with the final recommendation. for future use. greatly needed.. as demonstrated in this statement. it is a fair and reasonable part of any postwar program that may be passed by this congress. and in view of its repeated endorsement in the past. i trust the senate will again endorse it today.
i respect the senators views. although in this instance i disagree with him. this is  the ordinary loan arrangement between a bank and a customer. there is definitely involved a subsidy in the form of an interest rate  related to the current rate. in addition. there is the general proposition that whenever federal government resources are used. it is  only proper. but obligatory on the part of the government. to make sure that such resources are  used for the purposes of depressing local wage rates.
in addition. the former secretary of health. education. and welfare. mr. folsom. testified this june. before the house ways and means committee that the fund was absolutely sound. even with the amendment. providing a 10percent increase in benefits. the bill will increase the income of the trust fund by more than the cost of the increased benefits. therefore. there can be question as to the fiscal responsibility of the pending amendment. i hope very much the senate will agree to it.
i thank the senator from new york. let me say that i fully accept his utter good faith and sincerity here. he is  acting in character in his objection to this particular amendment. but that is an understandable fault. and he could  be expected easily to do otherwise. the fact is--and i think i k this to be truethat in all the discussions about easing the burden of the new york income tax upon new jersey residents. there has been suggestion beyond a mere palliative of equalizing deductions from income received by new jersey residents with those allowed new york residents. and there has been suggestion of any real easing of the burden of double taxation upon new jersey residents
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a joint resolution providing for a constitutional amendment to limit the rights of states and municipalities to tax the incomes of residents. millions of americans  paying taxes to more than one state would be affected by this proposal. in my own state. the constitutional amendment is of particular importance to residents of thern new jersey who work in new york city and state. and to residents of southern new jersey who pay the philadelphia wage tax because they work in that city. the states of new york and new jersey have been completing arrangements to permit similar income tax deductions for new jersey taxpayers who work in new york as are received by new york residents working in their own state. this action does  dispose of the central problemthe inequitable practice of taxing residents of any state twice. once in their own state and once in the state or municipality where they are employed. for regardless of concessions made by new york state. new jerseyites who work there must still pay an income tax to new york. double taxation itself is unfair and ought to be eliminated. it is unfair because new jerseyites pay new york state income taxes on their new york earnings and. in addition. they also pay their full share of the cost of new jerseys state and local governments. this is double taxation. matter how you look at it. in effect. the latest action taken by new york state simply grants to new jerseyites. at long last. the same kind of income tax deductions which new yorkers have been getting all along. this will result in some tax savings for new jersey residents working in new york. but. as i have said. it will  remove the unfair burden of double taxation itself. and. apart from the new york aspects of the problem. the same situation clearly faces residents of southern new jersey who work in philadelphia and who must pay a wage tax to that city. the best solution. of course. would be for each state to tax only its own residents. but new york has shown sign of being willing voluntarily to give up its tax on new jersey residents. so the only immediate course is to introduce an amendment to the constitution which limits the right of any state or political subdivision to levy taxes upon the incomes of residents. my proposal of today is similar to a joint resolution i introduced in the previous congress. at that time i requestedand receiveda public hearing on a similar constitutional amendment which i had introduced. the hearing was conducted by a subcommittee of the senate judiciary committee. though final committee action was taken. the hearing kept the spotlight on the whole inequitable practice and. eventually. new york state made its modest concession to new jersey residents. i have illusions about the difficulties facing those of us who support this objective. thirtyfour states raise revenue by means of income taxes. all of them tax esidents as well as residents. as unfair as i believe resident taxation to be. it is doubtful that these 34 states are going to give up. without a struggle. this particular source of tax revenue. and even if my constitutional amendment should be approved by congress. it must still be ratified by threefourths of the legislatures of all the states. we still have aher method of getting this constitutional amendment to the floor of congress for a vote. should the committee on the judiciary fail to give its approval. this session of congress has already seen the start of aher attempt by pennsylvania congressmen and senators to use the federal government as a tax collector for the wage tax which philadelphia levies on residents and residents alike. right . the law does  permit the federal government to step in and become a city tax collector. in the past. pennsylvania has sought to require the federal government to act as withholding agent for this wage tax levied upon federal employees who live in new jersey and work in philadelphia. several thousand of these federal employees work in the philadelphia navy yard. if this bill which would put uncle sam in the tax collecting business should pass the house againit has already been approved by the house ways and means committeei will offer my constitutional amendment as an amendment to the bill which the pennsylvania delegation will present. in this fashion. we would have an opportunity to force a vote on the larger question. by that i mean. of course. on the question of whether it is fair and right for any state or any city to tax the residents of some other state or some other city who presently must pay double taxes. we will. i hope. eventually win this fight for the millions of americans who travel to aher state to work. double taxation is an evil which limited tax concessions can erase.
including. i hope. the speech that was made just before this colloquy began. the fact is that there is discrimination. and the fact is that in many parts of the country it is worse than it is in new jersey. we are trying to get rid of it. the answer to the question as to why. in many southern states. there is less of a difference in unemployment as between negroes and whites -is that basically negroes do  even try to get the kind of jobs they would try to get in new jersey. for example.
. in conclusion. much as i respect the work which has been done over the months and years by the senator from delaware . and as closely as i should like to consider myself associated with him in achieving his objective to keep corruption out of government. both in that part of the government in which the senate operates. and in government in general. i strongly feel his proposal. for which our amendment.  pending. is a substitute. would  do the job. it seems quite clear that disclosure only to a committee of the senate will  satisfy what the public wants. will  satisfy what the press wants. will  satisfy what the press and the public need to have. in order to make judgment on a continuing basis. day in and day out. of the adequacy of the standards which we are applying in our conduct of the public business. it has been very clearly shown over the years that the senate will  police itself. only twice in the last hundred years has any disciplinary action whatever been taken by the senate in regard to any of its members. it took such action only twice. unless we include the consideration of contested elections. apart from contested elections. only twice in 100 years--that is as far as i have been able to go in my search on this resolutionhas any disciplinary action been taken by the senate. in both cases the action was almost hing more than a slap on the wrist. the appointment of the select committee does  eliminate the need for a disclosure resolution. the kind of disclosure measure which the senator from delaware has offered is  adequate. the amendment of the senator from delaware would require the income tax return to be made available immediately to the select committee. it would be up to the select committee to decide whether improper conduct had occurred. and then to say what action was to be taken. including the possibility. i gather. of disclosure of the facts set forth in the income tax return.
in answer to the question of the senator from pennsylvania. i should say that we in the senate and people in government generally. holding positions of trust. including the senate as an institution. have a reason to disclose personal information that does  exist in the case of the ordinary private citizen. whether or  that information should take the form of the filing of income tax returns is a question of judgment. it is a convenient way. the view of the senator from delaware is that the income tax return is very likely to be as accurate as anything can be. because of the ordinary fear that people have of telling lies under what is the equivalent of an oath to the income tax collector. so there is something to be said for the use of the income tax return. or a copy of it. for defining the information that we should make public. nevertheless. the information ought to be made public at once. and in the case of everybody. and  be put in the hands of everybody. where it can be. in favored cases. kept secret. and in the case of somebody against whom people in a position of authority. whether clerks or what . subject to improper influences. who wanted to "get" someone. made a means for blackmail or reprisal. or anything of that sort. let us have disclosure at once. open to the whole world.
. i am delighted to e that the senator from kentucky favors the financial disclosure requirement for members of congress. his support of the essential provisions of the bill that six senators. from both sides of the aisle. have joined in introducing is particularly welcome in view of his prior opposition to the proposal. our bill would require an annual statement by members of congress. candidates for congress. top legislative staff. as well as top officials in the executive branch. of all sources of income. including gifts of more than inal value. assets and liabilities. and all transactions in commodities and real and personal property. it would thus be more comprehensive than an income tax return. as senator morton ed. one can disagree. i believe. that the standing of congress with the public has dropped perceptibly and continuously in the last few years. from time to time. congress has made halfhearted attempts to deal with the problem. e of them likely to reassure the public of its determination to maintain proper standards of conduct. rather. the impression has been almost unavoidable that congress will act only if forced to do so by an outrageous misuse of posi: tion and then hope that the problem will go away. but the problem will  go away. and the longer congress dallies. the worse it will become. this is the sixth congress in which i have introduced the disclosure bill. i have myself regularly made disclosure in accordance with the provisions of the bill. a number of other members of congress have also made financial reports. i believe all of them would agree that the experience is  as painful as they might have feared. in many ways it is a positive protection to the member making the report. i reiterate my hope that the senate select committee on standards and conduct will  confine itself to the case presently before it. but will make general recommendations. including a disclosure requirement. senator mortons stand is indicative. i believe. of the growing support for such a requirement. before the current session ends. we will at last. i hope. have an opportunity to vote on the matter. in terms of public confidence in the integrity of the congress. i k of hing more important.
. my amendment is quite simple. the bill as amended by the committee provides that the federal government shall withhold municipal taxes. it already withholds state taxes from federal employees. this is a matter of emous significance and great anguish as far as many residents of my state. and i guess other states. too. are concerned. but i k that it is true as far as employees of the federal government who live in new jersey and work in philadelphia are concerned. the amendment that i have at the desk would limit the effect of the provision inserted by the committee in the bill. so that the federal government would only withhold from its employees living outside the state in which the city is located where the employees consented. it would still make it possible for the state to withhold taxes where consents have been obtained. and it may be that consent to a tax thought fair and reasonable would be obtained. because employees. in general. i think. would rather pay as they go along rather than to wait until the end of the year and then be hit by a big lump sum. this bill would authorize the federal government to collect the philadelphia wage tax from federal employees who live in new jersey. this rider to h.r. 7577. if adopted. will allow the federal government to withhold municipal income taxes. in cities of more than 60.000 population. from the salaries and wages paid to federal employees. hearings have been held on this proposal. although it deeply affects the residents of my own state. and in way have i or the citizens of my state been given the opportunity to offer our views on this matter. i regret we have been bypassed on this matter. because this is an issue of great importance to new jersey. while residents of new jersey do  object to paying taxes to out of state municipalities in proportion to the services provided to them. they deeply resent double taxation. both where they work and where they reside. when they have voice whatever in the utilization of the taxes paid by them. and receive benefit from the municipality of their workplace. they also resent an unfair fiat tax on income. instead of a graduated tax. which taxes low income wage earners at a rate effectively greater than higher wage earners. and they resent the fact that the federal government will. by this amendment. become a party to collecting a regressive and discriminatory flat tax instead of a graduated tax. these arguments have been tested before in the congress. on the floor of the house a similar amendment was defeated in the 91st congress by a vote of 184 to 145. while residents in new jersey do  oppose paying their fair share of a graduated tax. they are opposed to the effect of this rider and ask the right of all citizens to be heard by the appropriate legislative committees in the congress. are they  entitled to be heard in congress if the federal government is to become a participant as a municipal tax collector. it is right and just that this rider be sent back to committee. i urge my colleagues to vote against this rider. the objection of new jersey people to the philadelphia wage tax is that it is a flat rate. a flat rate on everyones total income. matter how large or how small. on people who work in philadelphia. some years ago this matter was before us in aher form. there were. and still are. new jersey residents who go to philadelphia by water and take a little ferry from a place called gloucester to the navy yard. and they never set foot .on pennsylvania soil. the federal government operates the navy yard. at one time they escaped the philadelphia wage tax because the federal government would  allow tax collectors in. it is very fair as far as we are concerned because this is an unfair tax. nevertheless. that situation has been changed. i see reason. and i hope the senate will agree with me. why we should act as tax collector for these taxes. the tax at a fiat rate is unfair and bears relation and makes distinction between residents and residents. although residents get much less in the way of setvices than residents. various proposals have been suggested making arrangements for proportionate taxes for services rendered. or a reasonable approximation for progressive taxes. as we have in the federal government. and other changes. but i think this is the best solution. the federal government should  act as a tax collector unless there is consent to do so. this amendment has been discussed with the manager and with the ranking miity member. i hope the committee is in a position to accept it.
. the administration and the congress together must act positively to bring inflation under control. for that reason. i am pleased to cosponsor the amendment to add the cost of living act of 1974. submitted by senator muskie. which provides for a 1year extension of standby authority for wage and price controls.. .. adoption of our amendment will  mean that new controls will be imposed. certainly. we hope such action does  become necessary. but our ecoic situation is too serious to justify reliance on fiscal and monetary policy alone. i am hearing every day from constituents who are caught in a doubledigit inflationary spiral that. according to the joint ecoic committee. has reduced the buying power of wage earners in manufacturing industries to a point lower than it was in 1972. naturally. other wage earners are affected in much the same manner. in these circumstances. it would be irresponsible to allow the current authority for controls. as included in the ecoic stabilization act. to expire at midnight tuesday. april 30.
. the following is a combined statement for my wife and myself of our assets and liabilities at the end of 1977 and income as reported in our 1977 income tax return. this is my 16th such report. assets cash in checking and savings accounts (after provision for federal income tax for 77). approximately ------------------------ $70.000 life insurance policies with the following insurers (currently providing for death benefits totaling $153.500): u.s. group life insurance. aetna life insurance co.. conn. general life ins. co.. conn. mutual life ins. co.. travelers insurance co.. continental assurance co.. equitable life assurance soc.. provident mutual life ins. co. of philadelphia. cash surrender value --------------59.963 retirement contract with federal employees retirement system (providing for single life annuity effective january 3. 1979 of $45.996 per annum). senator cases own contributions to the fund total. without interest ----------------62.711 annuity contracts with teachers insurance and annuity association and college retirement equities fund. as at 12/31/77 these contracts (estimated to provide a life annuity10year guaranteed periodeffective january 1979 of $1.815) had an accumulation value of ----------------------15. 705 securities as listed in schedule a..-- 435. 027 house in washington. d.c. (original cost plus capital expenditures)-- 67. 817 tangible personal property in rahway and washington. estimated-- 15. 000
. the first session of the eightieth congress is drawing to a close. and it is  well to review what has been done during .the session. so that we can best see what remains to be accomplished during the coming momentous -legislative year of 1948. before the eightieth congress passes into history. the inscription on the national archives building in washington is "what is past is prologue." as a member of congress i have learned to appreciate the wisdom and significance of those words. the eightieth congress had innumerable problems. both domestic and foreign. to cope with. it has done many things. much still remains to be accomplished. when i campaigned in 1946 1 had as my twin slogans "peace and jobs." looking back on this session. i believe we have been greatly preoccupied with peace. becaus-. of our activities in the field of foreign affairs. much time has been given to appropriations for the costs of government. to labor legislation. to budget policy and taxes. and .to wartime controls of rents. credit. and other commodities. but our hearts have been especially troubled by the problem of peace in a postwar. torn world. as a member of the house committee on foreign affairs. i have been privileged to be intimately concerned with every aspect of the foreignaffairs problems which came before us. i believe that we have already made the greatest of our policy decisions in peacetime. and that though there will be. and should be. much debate on contents and procedure. and on other practical details of emous significance. the basic issue has been resolved by this congress. that resolution dedicates the united states to three principles in foreign affairs: (a) that we will participate in the worlds reconstruction with our vast technical and material resources and with our skills and leadership. (b) that we shall insist from those we aid on selfhelp first. and on practical
. first i think it should be specified that from a great survey made of some 10.000 postoffice clerks by their own national federation it appeared that some 30.9 percent of all of them had to seek additional employment on a parttime basis to get along and that about 28.3 percent had to find jobs for their wives in order to get along themselves. the second point which i think is important is this: there are two schools of philosophy. one says the post office department is a- government agency. if it is. then the government ought to have the dignity and the responsibility to pay its people decently. on the other hand. if it is a business concern. e of us would tolerate an inefficient business concern taking its inefficiency and its losses out of the wages of its workers. we would insist that such a business go out of existence. this particular firm can go out of business. and. therefore. i think the burden is upon those who feel it is an inefficient business firm to fight for legislation which will make it solvent. i do  think that is any reason why the legitimate demands of the people who work for this business concern should be blocked. i hope this legislation will pass today.
. there is question about the fact that the stabilization effort is fuzzy in respect to food prices which have an artificial standard completely different from anything else in the law. it must be emphasized. too. because largely of the privileged standard on food prices. as far as the wageprice relationship is concerned that working people have to be constantly seeking to adjust their compensation to a rising  a "freeze" cost of living. prices go up. wages have to go up. and so on. but we are faced with a narrower question here. the defense production act expires on june 30 of this year. i do  think that anybody would maintain for a minute that there can be any kind of stabilization without the control of rents as well. an item which still accounts for 20 to 25 percent of the mal budget of the moderate income family. certainly in the cities. and. therefore. i believe that in all fairness we have got to extend this act for 90 days. secondly. there is some contention heard here that if rents are decontrolled federally the people could still have state control. the trouble with state controls is that in most of the states they have to have enabling acts before they can have rent control. the choice. therefore. is  between having federal control and state control. the choice is between decontrolling and having rent control whatever in many states where there are big cities but state legislatures are against rent control. finally. the whole question of inflation which is plaguing the country would be very much aggravated if we lifted this restraint on rents .- because it is very clear that with over 6.000.000 units under control out of 18.000.000 families in the cities it represents a very important segment of the general ecoy. about onethird.
. the purpose of my amendment is to change the standard by which ceiling prices may be established for agricultural commodities. as the law stands today and as the bill stands eilings can be established until each of these commodities reaches 100 percent of parity. while under my amendment there would be substituted the support price for the particular commodity. or the selling price in the base period may 24 to june 25. 1950. this subject needs to be aired and needs to be discussed very seriously. so far in this whole debate it has been taken very much for granted. we have just assumed this is a right provision and we have carefully cut around the real nubbin of the difficulty in getting pricewage stabilization under this act. the cost of food represents 40 percent of the moderate income familys budget. it is the cost of food that has been causing much of the difficulty and most of the complaints on the part of the consumers with respect to rising prices. those who have gotten up here and said that housewives including their wives have complained about rising prices. k they have complained about the price of food. yet we have accepted without question. without qualification. the standard in the act under which the price of food has been outstripping the prices of cost of living items generally and has been steadily rising. it has been claimed on the floor here that the administration did  have a chance to stabilize prices between september and january when the price freeze was put into effect and that within this period of time prices did rot rise so much higher. it so happens that prices during that period of time rose higher. and this is particularly true of food prices. the general consumers price index for all commodities went up from 174.6 on september 15 to 183.8 on february 15. while the consumers food price index went up from 210 on september 15 to 226 on february 15.  for tlhe period june 15 to september 15. the same index for all items went from 170.2 to 174.6. and for foods from 203.1 to 210. following the january 25. 1951 freeze the record is much better. the index for all items having gone to 185.4 and that for foods to 227.4. but still a disproportionate rise for foods.  just so long as we cut around the main area--food prices which has had so much to do with the inability to get wageprice stabilization and refuse tu face it realistically. just so long will we find it so hard to stabilize wages which the advocates of the tight freeze of ceilings were on the floor fighting for yesterday. this provision preventing ceilings on any agricultural item unless it reaches 100 percent of parity is hing but a way in which to make the support price for every agricultural commodity.  what it is but 100 percent of parity. . let us understand the real basis of the parityprice concept as contained in the agricultural adjustment act. it is the basis for a governmentsupported floor under farm prices to avoid the kind of debacle we suffered in 1932. but to do this the federal government is  maintaining a support price of 100 percent of parity for any commodity. even for the six major commodities---wheat. cotton. rice. corn. peanuts. and tobaccothe support price is only 90 percent of parity. and for many items the support price is a lesser percentage of parity. it is significant too that of these six. only one is under ceilings due to the provisions of the act i seek to amend. the protection that the congress intended that the farmer should have was  100 percent of parity but the support price which is what i ask that provision be made for in the bill. if that is done. food is put on an equal basis with everything else the consumer buys without interfering with the price protection the government gives the farmer. this parity concept we have been told is designed to retain the purchasing power the farmer had in 2909 to 1914. the fact is that parity has been considerably revised and considerably increased since. because the parity provisions  gives the farmer equality of purchasing power on a moving average of the latest of the last 10 years and right  that moving average is 1940 to 1950. which is about the highest price periodas it includes world war ii and 1947 and 1948the farmer has ever enjoyed in this country. i say if those who want to freeze everything really want to have a fair basis for stabilizing wages. they have got to do something to equalize the situation on food prices. right  the great bulk of the agricultural commodities are  subject to price control and can be put under ceilings. and the consequence is that they will go up some more and the cost of living will go up some more and wages will go up. you are  in a way to deal with inflation by this bill unless you do something tangible about the foodprice situation. i urge. too. those who are friends of the farmer to heed this situation. this is a time of high demand and good prices. i feel the farmer himstf would like to cooperate in trying to get prices down and stabilized . thereby building up great good will among consumers for what may happen tomorrow.
. this is the first of the technical assistance items. amendments will be offered to all three technical assistance items. two major points are made in the committees report upon this subject. one is the fact that the money is  needed as shown by the fact that there are  egh technicians who have been hired. second is the fact that there are a good many accumulated funds. i would like to answer both of those contentions. as to the fact that there are  egh technicians. the testimony before the appropriations subcommitteepage 2181is that something like 6 or 7 months are needed in order to hire a technician and clear him through the various agencies. the testimony before the subcommittee on appropriations shows that there are hundreds of employees in the pipeline. obviously. if there is money to pay their salaries at the time that they are in a position to be hired. it is  going to do us much good. it takes time to get them in. they are actually in the process of being hired. we need to have the money available for them when they are available to us. and they will be available in the fiscal year 1954. so much for the standard of how many employees there are in the technical assistance program. secondly. as to accumulated money. it takes time to work out agreements with some of these countries. in the case of the near east. which we are considering right . it is only 3 months ago. the negotiations having started long befor. that we were able to work out an agreement with egypt. i think everybody will agree that to have such american ambassadors of good will as technical workers in the near east is one of the most desirable things we can do. remember. we can send in agitators. as the soviet union does. the only way we can get our people into these countries to represent our american point of view is when they are invited under just such programs as this technicalassistance program. and unless we supply what is. relatively speaking. a small amount of money for that purpose. we are  going to get the tremendous benefit for our country that is possible here. as dr. judd has said. this represents one of the most critical areas in the world. it has been called the tinderbox of the world right . if you will look at the list of countries which have technicalassistance programsagain this is contained in the report of the foreign affairs committee on the previous billyou will find that it goes to 11 near east countries. all of them get small amounts of money. the leverage in this program is simply tremendous. i think we would be very unwise if we did  make full use of it. in addition. the host country. where the program is carried on. generally contributes at least as much in money as we contribute. also. we have cut down our ratio of materials furnished to technicians services to 1.5 to 1. i think the technicalassistance program is one of the cheapest things we can carry on in the interest of american foreign policy.
. while i recognize fully that the pending tax bill seeks a complete revision and overhaul of the tax laws and that all authorities agree that this revision is needed. it is nevertheless essential that this overhaul should  be used as a means for carrying out any unfair tax policy. equally it would  be right to jeopardize the flnancial standing of the government and its capability to stop a threatened recession and the way in which the miity proposes to do by its motion to recommit. i do  believe in vindictiveness in legislation or that two wrongs make a right. the bill in its proposal to permit deductions from taxation on account of dividends on the ground of double taxation--once to the corporation and once to the dividend recipientstanding alone benefits solely stockholder and  the stockholder income groups. this seems to me to make the bill objectionable. to balance this i favored an added $100 incometax credit for each dependent which would have cost an estimated $850 million a year in taxes. but the miity is proposing a $100 addition to all personal exemptions which will cost almost $2.500.000.000 a year in income taxes. this would be a major dislocation of the financial status of the government. doubling the anticipated deficit this year. the government is certainly being run more for getting the most out of each dollar  than for 20 years before. there is already pending an excisetax reduction of approximately $900 million which i favored to help consumers. which will further increase this deficit and i do  believe that as a responsible member of congress i would have any right to increase it yet further under present conditions. we are told that an emergency exists in unemployment justifying this action. the last figures on which showed 3.671.000 unemployed. i am deeply concerned about this unemployment and want to do everything i can to cut it down. and my attitude is quite apart from the argument which is made that there is still less unemployment than we had in 1950 and that our ecoy is running at a very high rate of prosperity exceeded only by 1 or 2 years in our history. the question is will $100 additional exemption make a material difference in the general ecoic condition of the country or will it cause far more harm than good by putting us further in the red and making it more difficult for us to take really major steps to halt a recession if the next few months indicate that we are facing it. it is to be ed that the $100 additional personal incometax exemption causing a loss of approximately $2.500.000.000 of taxes is under 1 percent of the national income of over $280 billion and means a very tiny weekly amount to most taxpayers. in addition. it would take some millions off the incometax rolls altogether and certainly the greater number of millions who will be left on the tax rolls ought to think about that. as i will be here in the congress right along seeking boldness. initiative. and expenditure in what i consider to be the paramount interests of the american people in terms of national security. housing. a national health program. expanded social security and unemployment insurance. modern national defense. foreign military. ecoic and technical assistance. increased aid for schools. roads. and hospitals. immigration and liberalized foreigntrade policy. how can i  take steps which will reduce rather than fortify the ability of the government. financially. to meet these needs. it is interesting from my mail to read how an approach of strict political expediency such as is proposed by the miity breeds its own evils. my mail shows that the increases in exemptions are bid on and up to $1.000 and more. proposals which would literally make it impossible to maintain our national security or operate the government. yet. this is exactly what happens in such a situation once bidding starts with tax cutting for political advantage. my decision is  made any easier by the fact that the bill before us contains some very attractive provisions which i have myself sought for some time exempting some amount of annuities from taxation. dealing realistically with the earnings of college students who are dependents. giving increased deductibility for medical expenses. deductions for working mothers. and other items. much as i should like to see these provisions enacted i have opportunity for offering amendments to delete the objectionable provisions which this 820page bill also contains. under the procedure on this bill or in voting on amendments and therefore must vote on the measure as a whole in all good conscience as i see its effects as a whole. all my constituents k that i have a deep feeling of obligation and responsibility in my work here and in the votes which i cast. i have studied the questions involved in these votes very carefully and have tried to inform myself on just where we stand ecoically and just where we are likely to go. i k that the people in my district are people of modest income. i k them well and k they could very well use the extra pocket money which would accrue from an additional $100 of personal incometax exemption. i k. too. that they love their country and put national security above every other consideration and they trust me to represent their best interests both for today and tomorrow. it is with that obligation so much in mind that i have decided i must vote against the motion to recommit and against the bill.
subsequently said: . over the weekend i had the ho to be associated with seven of my colleagues. senators aiken. case of new jersey. cooper. ives. kuchel. purtell. and smith of new jersey. in a declaration of policy for action against the current recession. to which we pledged ourselves. we propose four immediate specific steps: first. emergency federal extension of unemployment compensation for all those who have used up or shortly will use up their current benefits. second. largescale channeling of federal purchases and spending into labordistressed areas. third. legislation to stimulate and facilitate home construction. fourth. legislation to step up highway construction. both in the interstate and in the primary. secondary. and urban systems. the reason for our declaration is our understanding of the fact that when we talk about leadership. we realize that congress. too. has a responsibility to lead and a responsibility for taking action. we want to make it clearand this is the purport of the statement. as i see itthat we understand this means a responsibility.  merely to build up a record for the next election. but to take steps necessary to wage an antirecession struggle. we really feel a massive effort is necessary to do the job. and we want the effort to be big egh to do the job. we feel also a responsibility to restore vigor to our ecoy and to help those who may be hurt. especially those who may be unemployed. hence our recognition of the necessity for federal extension of unemployment compensation. i deeply feel such action is vital at this particular moment. for  only does the fate of our country. in terms of its ecoy. depend upon what we do. but. indeed. the fate and peace of the whole world. it is an open secret that the nations of the whole free world which are allied with us in the struggle for peace will be hurt by any continuance of a recession in our country. and the whole system of alliances which we have built up. and which are indispensable to peace. could be very materially and seriously jeopardized by a longcontinued recession in this country. i hope we. in the congress. will recognize our responsibility to act. and to act with sacrifice. i deeply feel the american people are prepared to make any sacrifices which may be required to sustain our productive prosperity and peace in the world.
. i address myself to this matter only because i. in part. represent the largest industrial and commercial state in the union. a state which contributes. in round figures. approximately 20 percent of the total federal tax. i think the people of my state have the right to k why. as their senator. i shall vote as i shall on this amendment. also. it may be of some interest to my colleagues. so i shall take but a few moments to state my position. i shall vote against the douglas amendment. and i shall do so with a heavy heart. because i have very great respect for my colleague from illis. mally. i would consider myself as being on questionable ground  to be with him on an issue like this. i would rather be with him. then i would be more deeply confirmed in my own thinking. i have thought this question through very thoroughly. i feel the question is one essentially of timing. i think it is essential that the debate on the question be completed. i rather think. therefore. the senator from illis. as is typical of him. has done us service. matter how the vote on the amendment may go in enabling us to sharpen our thinking on his practical and very thoroughly prepared presentation. i say it is a question of timing because i believe the recession is very serious . in my state 442.000 persons are registered for unemployment benefits. with a very heavy ratio in manufacturing industries. especially in such centers as buffalo. utica. elmira. and the troyschenectady areas. what troubles me in the debate on this question. here and throughout the countryand that is what it is getting down tois that the effort by my dear friend and colleague from illis comes at the beginning rather than at the climax of the debate. i think we would find ourselves in a much better position to deal with the amendment more wisely after we had had an opportunity to let the debate mature. in designing antirecession remedies we should determine the basic cause. as nearly as we can. and try to direct our fire at the target. the assumption being made is that the basic cause of the recession is very much what it was in 195354. and that the recession would be dispelled. as it was then. by a tax cut in roughly the same amount as was made then. about $5 billion. i think that is a risky and unnecessary assumption at this time. for these reasons: this recession is characterized.  by a major decrease in consumer purchasing. which has gone down relatively little since we first began to see the signs of a recession at the end of last summer. but the recession is based on a $5 billion inventory contraction. and an annual rate of several billion dollars in investment in facilities and equipment by business and industry. it has hit hardest major durable goods items like automobiles. the same workers who are  unemployed were buying at record levels for consumption only 6 or 8 months agoand. indeed. those who are employed are still buying at near record levels. the difficulty we  face is with people who have jobs. who only work part time. or who are in fear of losing their jobs. that is where the danger appears. i do  believe the jobholder getting the benefit of $50 in a personal income tax cut will buy an automobile or a home because of it. i believe that is the fulcrum on which the question turns. i do believe when he sees unemployment going down and feels more secure in his job he will go on making the same expenditures for consumption which kept our ecoy at such a high rate in 1955. 1956. and 1957. accordingly. i have backed and worked for. and will continue to back and work for. in the intervening period which i think is necessary. first. unemployment compensation to take up the slack there as much as possible. and then programs to fit into existing. going projects such as housing. highways. education. small business. hospitals. defense. aid to domestic underdeveloped areas. foreign ecoic and technical assistance. and federal aid to school construction. there is capability for adding to the ecoy from $5 billion to $10 billion by programs additional to those of the last fiscal year.
if we made a material reduction in the number of unemployedthere are  approximately five millionthe gross national product and the national income of the united states would far overtake the deficit. and trade policies and development policies will help us to do that. our real problem is that we reef in our sails when we ought to be sailing commensurately with the modern situation and our great opportunities.
. i conclude my remarks upon the following e. i deeply believe that this is a problem which ought to be adjusted among the states. i deeply believe that residents should be treated fairly in terms of deductions. but that they should pay an income tax and thereby bear a part of the cost of government. i believe also that we should  have duplicating taxes. that is. taxes on the same income in different states. finally. i believe that a drastic constitutional amendment cutting off the right of a state to tax earned income within the state would lead to an appreciable diminution of state income. which would be unfair and discriminatory against the residents of the individual states which levy the income tax. i express the hope that by exercise of reasonableness as between the states. even to the extent of state compacts. which could then be reviewed by congress. the need for any federal intervention beyond that may  occur. i point out that if the states themselves are reasonable. the problem will be considered as susceptible of a reasonable solution and will . therefore. arouse that kind of public emotion which would call for some national remedy which might turn out to be unfair to the particular states concerned or. on the other hand. to the individuals concerned.
. as a member of the committee. i feel a sense of responsibility with respect to the bill. i should like to state. first. that i think the senator from oregon has us all in his debt for the skill and study he has given this whole problem. i hope very much that we  have a bill in balance so much that it will pass. i asked for this time to express my sentiment for the bill. and to express my gratification that the bill came from the committee on labor and public welfare. i also wish to urge the same thing which was urged upon us. and which prevailed with us. that all of us should stretch a point with respect to the details of the bill in order to get a bill enacted. if we do  do that. both here and in the other body. we will  have a bill at all. that having been the sad experience of last year
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a resolution adopted by the town board of the town of islip. n.y.. relating to a deduction. for income tax purposes. of the commuting and traveling expenses of the workingman to and from his employment.
that is satisfactory to me. i hope the senator from massachusetts. who has examined into that phase of the question. will speak to that particular phase. if that is so. we shall  run across what it will be if it is left this way or if it is amended the way the senator from new hampshire wishes to change it. and change the substantive ground rules. the fact is that we are faced with a fact. and  a theory. we are faced with two amendments which seek to change the ground rules. of the two amendments. i think the saltonstall amendment leaves the matter in status quo. which i think is proper. more than does the amendment of the distinguished senator from new hampshire. my home state of new york is making a great effort to agree with the states of connecticut and new jersey upon a formula which will be fair to the resident and at the same time be fair to the state of new york. for the aid of my colleagues. i would like to mention what that formula is. the formula proposes that every resident taxpayer shall get the same treatment as every resident taxpayer in terms of deduction. except both in terms of income on which he is taxed and the deduction to which he is entitled. it shall be prorated against total income. there shall be a rule of thumb that where a great deal of the income is derived from interest and dividendsthe proposal is. for new york. when $1.000 is derived from dividends or interest on which he owes a tax only to his state of residencehe should get only 90 percent of the deduction. in order to give him some credit for the fact that he is  paying on a pro rata share of his whole income. i mention that only by way of asserting that. in mutual selfinterest. the states can and will get together. the three states of new york. connecticut. and new jersey are certainly trying to act on that score. i believe they will get together. i think that is the best way in which to settle these questions. i hope the senateand i beg all senators to listen to thiswill  involve itself in a culdesac of trying to determine any arrangement between the two parties by depriving one of the parties of a remedy. rather than proceeding the way con&ress should proceed. which is to adjudicate the equities between them. unless the amendment of the senator from massachusetts is adopted. we will be denying the state a tax which it justly and properly levies in the only way it can collect it. while congress. at the same time. will  be taking the responsibility of deciding that state is  entitled to the tax. this is something we can do. because it is an example and a precedent which can go into other areas and hurt quite seriously the very people who are advocating it. i hope the senate will  put itself in that position. and will. therefore. vote for the saltonstall amendment and against the cotton amendment.
the senator from th carolina may just as well ask me whether i would agree that the federal government should  collect any income taxes from all the residents of a county in my state because those residents do  want to pay them. the senator from th carolina ks that that is sensejust as much sense as what he has just said about desegregation. with all due respect.
. i am informed by my colleague that there has just come over from the house bill 3151. relating to withholding. for purposes of the income tax imposed by certain cities on the compensation of federal employees. the bill which has just come over would allow income taxes levied by the states to be collected by the federal government. i join with my colleagues and other senators in expressing the interest of my state in this measure. and my gratification at the fact that such a bill has come over from the house.
yes. will the senator allow me to qualify that statement. we have simplified the procedure greatly by relying solely on the income tax return. and the bill so provides. if a man files an income tax return. that settles the question. if he violates the law. and does  file. we will  pursue that point. also the mere certification in his income tax return that he shows more than x dollars would be egh to qualify him. he would  have to give us the return or anything else. the amendment is clear on that point. and it is a simple proposition. i only wanted to clarify the procedure.
i thank my colleague. in this country we are thinking  in terms of vindicating the twoparty system. and what i consider a fundamental difference between the democratic national administration and what i regard as a proper republican position is encompassed in the contrasting concept of dealing with the recession by government and dealing with the recession by incentives and the private ecoic system under the leadership of the government. i should like to devote a few minutes to the development of that concept. i should like to spell out those items of incentive and facilitation which i think represent a proper republican position as an alternative to the idea that we must turn this problem over to the government and that the government will solve it. first. a u.s. productivity drive is essential. step i is to increase our productivity through a more rapid modernization of our industrial plant which during the past 50 years has actually been aging perceptibly because of inadequate investment in new capital equipment and facilities. a 1959 mcgrawhill publications survey shows that onethird of our over $300 billion industrial plant is becoming obsolescent and depreciation allowances lag $4 to $6 billion a year behind our replacement needs. if there is to be an increase in the minimum wage at this session then surely. in view of world competition. a productivity drive is vital. i should like to add that dr. heller. in his testimony before the joint ecoic committee on monday last. presented some facts and figures on the obsolescence of american plants. which i commend to every senator. he has  let us get off easy. either. because he has confirmed what so many of us have heard testified to before. which is that we are  priced out of the international market by virtue of our wage scales. but that it is his considered ecoic view that we may have difficulties and problems in certain areas of the ecoy. and we may all have different ideas as to how those problems should be dealt with. i happen to believe that the emphasis should be on adjustment assistance. other senators may think the emphasis should be on greater backing. a type of protectionism. quotas. higher tariffs. or some stricter rules and regulations in that field. but the important question. in the whole national interest. is whether we are pricing ourselves out of the international market generally. dr. heller is relatively reassuring on that score. but he points out that though he does  think that such is the case today. it could easily be the case tomorrow if we let the obsolescence of the fundamental industrial plant get away from us. as it is doing to a serious extent . so point 1 in what i consider to be incentives to business and government leadership to business is a productive drive. heavily based upon the modernization of the american industrial machine. and i point out that that is contributed to by our proposal to increase the minimum wage. president kennedy has proposed. in general terms. a program of tax incentives to stimulate investment in plant and equipment which is reportedly being drafted  by the treasury department. such legislation is most desirable. this program will have to undergo careful analysis once it is presented. it will be necessary to ascertain that its effects will be directed adequately toward those segments of the u.s. business communitysmall and medium sized enterprisesthat are most in need of tax incentives. in this way we can assure that the greatest national benefit will be derived for the tax revenue lost. tax incentives with respect to oversea private investment need also to be considered. these are generally incorporated in the concept of the boggs bill. which has been referred to. countries such as the soviet union which represent our mortal competition in the cold war. and west germany and japan. who are our friendly competitors in the field of commerce. have had annual ecoic growth rates of between 6 percent and 10 percent during the past decadetwo to three times the u.s. rate. these nations have been annually investing between 20 and 30 percent of their gross national product in new capital equipment. as compared to a u.s. investment of 11 percent per year during the same period. we need urgently to reexamine the american ecoy. government incentives to business. and government leadership. which are absolutely essential toward that end. second. step two is to increase the national rate of productivity by concrete steps designed to enlist the cooperation of labor and management in the fullest utilization of our ecoic potential. this means cooperation in retraining programs for workers. it means the elimination of featherbedding practices of both labor and management. some of which are  legalized by outofdate laws which require revision. in new york state we have such laws as the full crew law. it means the application of new ideas and skills and research for more efficient methods and new products. i believe that the achievement of such cooperationand i do  say this in any hostile or adversary sense. but merely by way of constructive suggestionrequires much more than an executive order to establish an advisory committee on labormanagement policy. as created by president kennedy on i have made one suggestion toward that end. and perhaps other senators may have other and even much better suggestions. i have introduced a bill which would establish a national productivity council. with authority to organize voluntary councils on a community. regional. or industry basis throughout the country. this would implement the white house committee by law to get the needed money for it to operate. to get it down to the plant and local level. to bring about grassroots participation and to mark the whole effort as an expression of the national will. these councils would act to accelerate national productivity by promoting peaceful labormanagement relations. by solving problems caused by inflexible prices. the wageprice squeeze. featherbedding. absenteeism. and other ecoic sore spots that have been slowing the u.s. productivity rate. increased productivity can be assured by increased capital investment alone. the very nature of automation. which is the instrument of greater productivity. requires high morale. and this means that labor must  be thrown on the scrap heap by automation. but workers must be retrained. financed during the transition period. and again placed in jobs. in that respect i would like to call the particular attention of my colleagues to the statement of william mcchesn~y martin. chairman of the board of govers of the federal reserve board. delivered before the joint ecoic committee on march 7. 1961. he said: analysis of current unemployment shows that. in brief: 1. the lines of work in which job opportunities have been declining most proncedly for some years are farming. mining. transportation. and the blue collar crafts and trades in manufacturing industries. 2. the workers hardest hit have been the semiskilled and the unskilled (along with inexperienced youths newly entering the labor market). these workers have accounted for a significant part of the increase in the level and duration of unemployment. among white collar groups. employment has continued to increase and unemployment has shown little change even in times of cyclical downturn. 3. the areas hardest hit have been. primarily. individual areas dependent upon a single industry. and cities in which such industries as autos. steel. and electrical equipment were heavily concentrated. he believes that this is endemic unemployment and can be dealt with by antirecession bills. it requires a different treatment. he goes on to say: actions best suited to helping these groups would appear to include more training and retraining to develop skills needed in expanding industries. provisions of more and better information about job opportunities for various skills in various local labor markets. tax programs to stimulate investment that will expand work opportunities. revision of pension and benefit plans to eliminate penalties on employees moving to new jobs. reduction of impediments to entry into jobs. and so on. i would include. also. equal opportunity for employment without discrimination because of race. color. or age.  kennedy must be implemented by legislative action to augment and coordinate the export services provided by the government. if it is to succeed in materially reducing the u.s. balanceofpayments deficita deficit which if it long continues at its present rate. can seriously erode the value of the dollar upon which the ecoic survival of the entire free world depends. i believe it is one of the highest priority responsibilities of congress. i have introduced proposed legislation to deal with it. i expect to be joined within a very few days. by the splendid initiative of the chairman of the small business committee. the senator from alabama . and a great many of the members of that committee. in pushing that program. i strongly urge it upon both senators and members of the house. furthermore. export expansion which is becoming increasingly important to the domestic ecoic growth of the united states requires an import policy meeting international as well as domestic needs. it must also maintain our markets abroad by preventing the ecoic isolation of the united states which would result from acrosstheboard protectionism. such an import policy must gear up domestic industry to meet the challenges of international competition and must assist the workers. businessmen. and communities adversely affected to make the needed adjustment without hardship. fifth. the international ecoic policy of the united states requires new media for coordinating the ecoic efforts of the free world. it must include ratification of the oecd which will coordinate the ecoic power of the industrial nations of the free worldtheir annual gnp is approaching $1 trillion of which more than half belongs to the united states--so that it will become the determining factor in free world ecoic development. within this organization concrete u.s. proposals must take shape to coordinate aid. trade. credit. and fiscal policies which will assure dollar stability and sound ecoic expansion. u.s. leadership and experience must be made freely available to this organization in providing marshall plantype regional development programs in latin america. south asia. and africaprograms of selfhelp and mutual cooperation. sixth. on even a broader scale. u.s. policy must lead toward the establishment of international banking and credit facilities which will provide for the increase of liquidity which is the essential basis for the rapid expansion of international trade. mechanisms must bo worked out which will enable the limited amount of hard currencies available to serve as the medium for the greatly increased international transactions on long egh credit terms to form the basic fabric of free world ecoic strength. in that regard. i commend very strongly to all senators a consideration of the comments of professor triffin. of yale. professor triffin may  be correct in the remedy he suggests. but he puts his finger on the trouble which restricts the ecoic growth of the world when he refers to a 1 percent increase in the production of gold for use in world commerce. this is an impossible situation. it can be permitted to endure. we must find some other mechanism. some other basis. for ecoic expansion. seventh. in the carrying out of our international ecoic policies. there must be a constant effort to draw upon the ecoic strength. techogical skills. and managerial khow of the private sector of our ecoy. this can be accomplished by mixed systems management groups acting in combined foreign aid operations of government and business. by stimulation of a massive pool of private capital for oversea investment perhaps through a publicly financed world development corporation. by providing tax incentives for oversea private investment in developing areas. and by enlisting the private ecoic system on a contract basis to give technical assistance to less developed areas. a successful policy of stimulating private participation. however. will require governmental agencies to go out of their way to cooperate with management and labor in foreign ecoic policy. this goes beyond the export promotion effort which i have advocated. it means a basic change in operating procedures on the part of government officials in important aspects of foreign relations. more and more. it means that american business must accept and become accustomed to working with the government in mixed operations. whether in the development of the mekong river. which we read about this morning. or the indus river basin. or the volta river. in africa. or any of the tremendous works which must be undertaken. american businessmen must drop all their fears of dealing with government. on the other hand. it is up to the government to make certain that the conditions are auspicious for that purpose. we must protect business from bureaucracy. just as we have to protect government from the charge that it can be entrusted with the enforcement of a continuity of policy long egh for businessmen to deal with it independently. these. then. are some among the ideas. the opportunities we have to spur the ecoic progress of the american people and the world   being brought forward and developed by the administration. they are more than merely the immediate measures needed to deal with the recession. they represent the real essence of the ecoic struggle. and they would demonstrate that we understand the basis for free world stability and that we are determined with all our resources to join with the rest of the free world in building that basis.
. as we approach the conclusion of our consideration of the pending bill. i wish to make a brief statement. i have listened with great interest to the remarks of my colleagues who have taken their positions in regard to the bill. and i have listened with especial interest to the remarks the senator from arizona has made on the bill. i wish to address myself to one or two points in connection with it. first. let me state that i favor the bill. and shall vote for its passage. we must realize that the very competition in which we are engaged in the world today makes this bill most important. particularly in terms of its impact on the ecoy of our nation. in the competition with the ecoies of the other free nations of the world. but more particularly in the grim competition with the ecoy of the soviet union. if we need a lesson in that respect. one may point to what is happening at present in connection with what appears to be the communistinspired fortification of an island only 90 miles from our shores. where a very key base is located. in that connection. i wish to address myself to this bill. first. i should like to emphasize the fact that we are competing with the communists. consequently. the morale of our people needs to be high. and in within our power to keep high both our standard of production and our standard of consumption. in order that the standard of living of our people may also be high. the widespread understanding of that fact explains why the american business community. by and large. has  taken very serious exception to this minimum wage bill. many of the industries and businesses concerned have sought to obtain exemptions or accommodations for their particular situations. but. on the whole. there has  been a revolt by american business against the proposal to make the minimum wage. by means of this bill. more nearly conform to the ecoic situation of our nation. in terms of the cost of living and the state of our productive machine. that is a very important point. because it bears upon the morale factor to which i have referred. although we speak in very broad terms about this effect of the bill. let us remember that although the bill will increase the minimum wage for the almost 24 million workers who  are covered by existing minimum wage legislation. and although the bill will for the first time bring under minimumwage coverage approximately 4 million workers. all of these two groups of workers are  by any means the ones who will receive the benefits of the minimumwage provisions of the bill. on the basis of the $1 an hour minimum wage which will first apply to those newly covered. it is estimated that approximately 780.000 workers will be affected. and the increase to $1.25 will be effective as to 1.500.000 of the newly covered workers. these increases recognize the fact that the standard of productivity has increased. that the standard of living has increased. thus. indeed. the enactment of the bill will provide a fundamental. concrete basis under the standard of living. and that basis is of great importance in terms of the morale of our people. my reason for speaking at this time is that we must constantly "keep our eye on the ball." to win in this ecoic struggle against the communists. american working men and women must have a decent standard of living. we are going to win the struggle against the communists if we have the american workingman inspired to doing his utmost. in respect of this struggle. and if we have the american ecoic system dedicated to productivity. in terms of that struggle. and to operating in the public interest. whether that means in terms of foreign aid programs. foreign assistance programs. or devoting the aid of technicians. who are so important to the american effort. and in devoting those efforts to the underdeveloped areas. and in being satisfied  alone to make a profit. but to have also peace in the world. in short. i wish to call to the attention of management and labor what it means to keep our eye on the ball. for example. we are investing far more than we should in certain elements of our new capital investment. and far less than we should in other capital investment. we are brought up short by newspaper stories of an authoritative government study of a comparison of capital investment as between the united states and the soviet union. dated february 1961. there is a newspaper report relating to that report. appearing in the sunday new york times of april 16. 1961. which i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point as a part of my remarks.
i read from the article: the key finding of the study is that in 1959. new soviet industrial investment. measured in constant american prices of 1955. was $29.900 million. almost 70 percent more than the corresponding american investment of $17.600 million. in 1951. during the korean war. the picture was sharply different. the united states then invested $18.100 million in industrial plant and equipment as against only $11.300 million in the soviet union. the article then goes on to point out that the soviet stress is on increased industrial capacity in the fundamental industries. whether it is machinery or steel. which make for new industrial power for the "muscle" of an industrial society. the reporter in the article says the stress in the soviet union has been on new factories. new mines. new machinery. whereas with us the stress has been on the building of new highways or new shopping centers. this very striking difference is most important to the consideration of this bill. for. at one and the same time. we must seek to keep at a high level the morale of the workers in terms of a minimum wagewe must assure the workers of the decent standard of living which the american ecoy can providebut we must at the same time call on management and labor for increased productivity. for the struggle in the cold war. as it was in the hot war. is a struggle of production. the president has today made tax proposals designed to materially improve prospects for increased investment in capital goods. i think that is all to the good. the president has made proposals which would induce investments in the underdeveloped areas. rather than in the more developed areas. but e of this effort will work.  will the minimum wage increase. which we shall be able to provide by passing the bill today. effectively help. in terms of the morale of our workers. unless we increase the "tough" productivity. which is in steel. new factories. and new machinery. and unless we are determined to cut out featherbedding and the "easy way." whether it is among workers or in management.
. for many years i have urged. through practical measures and as a matter of policy. that we can win the cold war without the assistance of american business. i think mr. shriver is absolutely correct. he is entitled to the support of american business and american labor. i emphasize this point because there is often just as much exclusionism in terms of peoples seniority and their standing in the trade unions as there is in a business concern. i point out to senators. and particularly the senator from minnesota. who has had a great deal to do with this work. that i do  see any reason why we should  make it possible under the tax laws for american business to release. on a temporary basis. employees for the peace corps and yet maintain their salaries and wage levels. the peace corps may  be able to pay members of the corps what they need or what they are entitled to based on their standing with a particular company. but that company ought to continue to pay their salaries. so that they would  be under ecoic pressure to refrain from serving the peace corps. though they may have the will to do so. this point is extremely important. we have actually submitted these ideas to the ica. i point out that we should  live in a dreamworld. mr. shriver has said that he found on his trip around the world that there are 50.000 jobs that need filling in 103 underdeveloped areas of the free world. the maximum number of applicants to the peace corps is 4.800 in terms of the eligibility questionnaire. obviously. in view of the job to be done. and the magnitude in which it needs to be done. we need the cooperation of government and business. we would make it possible for american business to cooperate. american business may have to run a twoplatoon system in jobs in order to make available people for the peace corps program and at the same time have available people to fill their positions without loss in seniority. pension rights or compensation. my hope is  a dream idea. i have actually brought the new york telephone co. together with the ica in order to discuss this very proposal. i can assure the senate that the proposed program is very practical and can be put into operation. provided that we in congress cooperate. so i say to the assistant miity leader that the proposal is  only a great idea or an abstract principle. but it is also a matter of hard reality. and these soldiers of peace can be just as critically important as any soldiers we have ever drafted for war. but we must support them. and see that companies that wish to contribute find it possible to do so. through recognition of the service as an area of national service and entitled to our help with respect to taxes and the other considerations i have described.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a resolution adopted by the western new york league of savings and loan associations. of buffalo. n.y.. protesting against the enactment of legislation requiring commercial banks. and savings and loan associations to withhold federal income tax on sums paid or credited depositors or members as interest or dividends on deposits or shareholdings in said institutions.
i am grateful to the senator from arkansas. without delaying the matter. although i gather there is some desire to do business while we are waiting. i should like to -say to the senator that the operative part of the amendments lies in the fact that the development loan fund will be available for this type of development wherever appropriate and wherever it can be done in the manner which is described in the amendments. i had originally contemplated doing the same thing -to this section insofar as the management of this program is concerned. because i believe that we have an emous opportunity to tie in private enterprise into the aid missions themselves. a most important objective of this governments foreign assistance programs is the encouragement of ecoies in the less developed countries of the world which will  only produce more goods and services for more people but will so preserve freedom of choice and initiative. our own experience has been that competitive private enterprise has produced a higher standard of living with less governmental. dictation than anywhere else in the world. it would be a paradox indeed if in our efforts to aid the less developed areas -in the world we overlooked the role of -private enterprise and thus failed to use our -most effective ecoic resource. this is why it is so important to insure that the bill before the senate gives to the administration the tools which are necessary to stimulate private enterprise participation in foreign assistance programs. as the bill  stands it appears to lack a specific declaration of policy authorizing loans for privately managed development projects and does  make it clear that loans from the development .loan fund may be made to private enterprise as well as to governments. loans to private enterprise either in this country or in the country receiving assistance or to mixed enterprise of both might well prove to be the most effective way of achieving many of the longrange purposes of this bill. in many instances a relatively small loan of government money could trigger substantial investment of private u.s. and foreign capital in a desirable project in one of the less developed areas. particularly useful would be loans to joint or mixed companies in which american management techniques would combine with local ownership to construct and operate facilities in the private sector of the foreign ecoy. it seems important. therefore. that the present bill be amended to emphasize the importance of such loans so that the administering officials will labor under doubts whatsoever about the sense of the congress. there would be a clear statement of policy favoring. and specific authorization for. loans from the development loan fund to private enterprise in order to encourage its participation in the foreign assistance program. perhaps if there is some time left after we act on the pending amendments the senator will permit me to retain the floor and make some remarks on that subject. the senator from arkansas has properly pointed out that there is legal authority under section 635 to do precisely that. it is for that reason that i pointed out that the operative aspect of the amendments relates to the fact that the development loan fund would. wherever appropriate. be available for private enterprise participation. this does  have merely a general applicability. it is specifically tied in. i am grateful to the senator for being willing to accept the amendments.
 regarding legislation for price. wage. commodity and materials controls and allocations. such a board would also encourage and assist in the organization of labormanagementpublic committees designed to increase productivity. reduce labor management tensions and absenteeism. and smooth the transition to greater automation and techogical advance. essentially a peace production board would be able to promote the voluntary allocation of national resources. material and human. to gear up this government and our people to meet the great crisis of the communist challenge. i have introduced legislation. s. 2204. the peace production act. for this purpose. finally. a labormanagement agreement to endeavor to increase productivity by eliminating makework practices in labor or management. to encourage automation. provided security is given to those employees affected. to seek better means to avoid work stoppages and to afford equal opportunity to all workers without regard to race. creed. or color. that would complete what i consider to be necessary action in the public interest on the part of these ecoic groups.  i should like to state why it is so very dangerous for us to try to substitute ourselves for the operation of the ecoic processes rather than to concentrate our activities on fundamental considerations of basic policy within the framework of which operational decisions may be made. i shall deal with some of the statements which appear in the document entitled "steel facts." issued by the subcommittee of which the senator from tennessee is the chairman. and which were essentially the basis for the findings and arguments made by our democratic colleagues in first bringing this case before the senate. i shall consider these statements as they pertain to my argument. as it is affected by the level of steel wages. trends in unit labor cost and price of steel. and the cost of the wage increase called for under contract on october 1. 1961. such an analysis should put into perspective the broad range of fact upon which we must base our appeal to labor and management in the steel industry. according to bureau of labor statistics datathe only source from which interindustry comparisons are availableless than 2 percent of the wage earners in manufacturing industries have average hourly earnings higher than the steelworker. this is a major improvement in the steelworkers position over prior periods such as 1940 when 15 percent of such workers had higher average hourly earnings. as recently as february 1954 the comparable figure was 9 percent. there are material layoffs in the steel industry. yet the annual wage of steelworkers remains among the highest in industry. the "steel facts" sheet released by senator kefauver indicates that between 1947 and 1959 average hourly earnings in the steel industry rose by 113 percent. that the increase in "manhour productivity" was 42 percent in this period. and that the resulting increases in unit labor costs was "slightly more than 50 percent." in using these statistics. we should e. however. the testimony presented by  of the finance committee. united states steel corp.. before the antitrust and mooly subcommittee of the senate in 1957. he stated thatduring the war period. preceding 1947. his companys employment costs and wholesale prices in general rose rapidly. both increasing by over 50 percent from 1940 to 1946. on the other hand. steel prices under regulation during the war were  permitted to rise at all until 1945. and in 1946 were only 12 percent greater than in 1940. profits were squeezed down to a low in 1944 of less than 3 percent of sales despite a 95percent operating rate. in prewar year had united states steel ever operated at 90 percent or more and experienced an income percentage of less than 14 percent. owing to this wartime factor. steel product prices in 1946 and 1947 relative to wholesale prices in general were more out of line on the downside than they have been within the past half century for which we have records. a postwar readjustment was absolutely required if the steel industry was to escape gradual disintegration. besides the controversial 1947 base period. senator kefauvers comparison used earnings for wage employees only instead of for all employees. using data only for wage employees iges the substantial and growing contributions made by research scientists. engineers. accountants. mathematicians. and the myriad of other management jobs so essential in achieving gains in output. secretary of labor mitchell in reporting on "statistics bearing on the steel dispute." during the 1959 steel strike indicated that the number of production workers has fluctuated considerably in the postwar period with little net change. the secretary indicated that the number of administrative. professional and clerical workers. on the other hand. has risen substantially in the postwar period and that between the first half of 1947 and the first half of 1959 these employees in the steel industry increased by 34.000 or by nearly 50 percent. thus. to attempt to compare a period such as 1947 versus 1959. while iging the effect of the increase in the number of salaried employees and their corresponding manhours needed to achieve steel output. results in misleading conclusions. the reference to "manhour productivity" and then simply to "productivity." and the attempt to relate unit labor cost to prices can also be misleading. dr. solomon fabricant. director of research of the national bureau of ecoic research. stated in the february 1961 issue of challenge magazine: productivity statistics should take account  only of the input of labor in the form of manhours. they should also take account of the input of other resources. such as tangible capital equipment. to ige cost substitution factors which may have taken place renders comparison of component costs. such as the cost of labor. in a vacuum and leads to unwarranted costprice comparisons. the bureau of labor statistics has been quite clear in cautioning all that the figures which they issue represent output per manhour and do  represent total productivity. steel production facilities require vast investments and a considerable amount of time to build. they are created by the savings of millions of shareowners. these facilities can be created overnight to meet increased demand.  abandoned when demand falls off. yet the steel industry is one of the most cyclical of all industriesduring a business cycle the demand for steel falls and rises twice as fast as the average of all manufacturers. the facts are that the industry increased its capacity from 81.6 to 91.9 million tons during the war period of 194046. and from 91.2 to 148.6 million tons in the succeeding period of 1947 to 1960. obviously. the ecoy of the country requires that peak capacity be considerably higher than average demand. we do have such a capacity. principally because the industry has invested huge sums to keep its facilities in pace with or ahead of the ecoy as a whole. let us e that. if the steel industry could  operate at a reasonable profit at less than capacity operations. the investment funds would  have been and would  be available to maintain a growing industry sufficient to take care of the needs of a growing ecoy. i strongly favor operation by the steel industry at a level of capacity which will meet growing needs. i believe that policies at home and abroad commensurate with the responsibility we must assume in the development of the less developed countries. the facilitation of trade which will come with the wise application of common market and free trade area principles in the atlantic community and other parts of the world and the reform of the free worlds credit mechanisms to utilize the full potential of the free worlds use of credit would serve together to materially increase this rate of steel operations. these are all government policies.  policies dependent on the steel industry at all. our government and people can accept in any industry operation at less than the maximum possible capacity according to the going demand. i can see why the industry would  be willing to impose the selfrestraint of price increase upon itself if. through the commitments to be undertaken by labor and management as i have described them above. the industrys feet may be put upon the road of expanding utilization of capacity. as the issue of profits is raised. however. to justify a theory that the industry can refrain from raising prices without regard to the wage increase  and the general policy of labor as to its compensation. it is fair to make some observation about the profits analysis as it appears in "steel facts." the concluding statement in "steel facts" on profits states. "the rise in the profit rate in relation to the operating rate can only mean that prices have risen more than costs." but it is claimed that profits expressed as a rate of return on net worth are  a meaningful measurement in an industry heavily invested in longlived facilities. such as steel. because profits are recorded in currentday dollars and net worth is based on dollars invested in facilities many years ago before much of the inflation in the last two decades took place. it could hardly be expected that industry would . of itself. just as labor would . of itself. deal with its own problems of survival in advance of correlative action on the part of other factors concerned: the labor factor and the factor of government. a simple illustration will show why and how much the use of net worth as a basis can overstate profit rates. suppose 20 years ago a steel company had a million dollar investment or net worth and sold a million dollars of steel and made a profit of $50.000. that profit was equal to a 5percent return on investment and 5percent return on sales. then inflation pushed costs and prices up 100 percent.  they do the same business but their sales are $2 million and if they still earn 5 percent on sales they have a profit of 100.000 inflated dollars. but their investment. which turns over very slowly. is still valued on their books at  much more than the original. historical $1 million. thus it appears that their rate of return on net worth is almost 10 percentthe illusion of inflation. for example. to build a new fully integrated steel mill would require an investment equal to almost $400 per ton of finished steel product of such a mill. the product might sell for $150 per ton and earn a 6percent profit or $9 per ton. that $9 is equal to a 2.25percent return on their investment 10 percent or more. expression of profits as a percent of sales. it is claimed. avoids the inflation distortion because both facts are recorded mostly in current dollars. i call attention to a table which i ask unanimous consent to insert in the record at this point showing the relationship between net worth sales and profits.
i thought it important to pinpoint that item so that there would be lack of explanation. in regard to entertainment expenses. i gather that the fundamental thrust of the change was  to use the words "directly related to the conduct of the taxpayers trade or business exclusively" or the words "associated exclusively". but to do what we lawyers often donamely. to relate the propriety of the entertainment expense deduction to the fact that the expense was in connection withwhether before or afterincome. and so forth. which would be earned. i think that is a fair compromise. in view of the desire to tighten the definition. which those in some quarters felt had been abused. and i do  believe it would materially change the decisions of the internal revenue authorities in regard to the deductions claimed by those who have pursued a reasonable course of conduct in making deductions for the expenses of entertainment with fair relationship to their earning of income or engaging in business. let me ask to what extent the conference report allows the deduction of expenses of entertainment in connection with good will.
. i ask the senator two questions which are important to me. those of us who advocate a tax cut and many other things to improve the ecoy and deal with endemic unemployment must take account of the interim period in which those measures will  have been effectuated. is that  true.
i understand. but i did  wish to intrude upon the senator because he was carrying the laboring oar. be that as it may. i have feeling about it. since i  have an opportunity to speak on the bill. i shall probably vote for the bill. i came back from new york. after a very brief round trip. this morning. because i thought perhaps my vote might be necessary to pass the bill. i understand that the situation might be a little close in some quarters. but in fairness to the state i represent. which is a great industrial state and pays a huge amount of taxes. and in fairness to those who would wish to support this idea. we should understand clearly what we are about. i think the situation gets a little fuzzy. and the amendment offered by the senator from pennsylvania helps to make it very clear. the bill is  our only effort to deal with unemployment in this country. my beloved colleague. the distinguished senator from illis . presides over the joint ecoic committee. which is engaged in an exhaustive effort to determine what to do about the general unemployment situation in the united states.  amounting to approximately 5 million. so far. by the commitment of resources entrusted to the ara. the ara says it has employed about 69.000 persons. perhaps with the resources we propose to commit to them . they might do better. they might bring employment up to 100.000 more. let us assume that they will do so. that is still a drop in the bucket compared with the unemployment picture in the united states. therefore. as a measure to alleviate unemployment. the bill would  be justified. and i would vote against it. i think that would be the proper policy.  is the bill justified as a measure to deal with techogical change in farming in the united states. we have rural redevelopment programs  operating under the jurisdiction of the department of agriculture. which has special expertise and special techniques to deal with those problems. it seems to be the popular concept in government that every time we do something of this nature. we must do it across the board. or else it will  accomplish its purpose. so. as the french say. we have a pour boire. the same condition obtains in respect to federal aid to education. the senator from kentucky and i voted for the proposition that states which think they pay the optimum for education could  make the grade for federal aid for education. we did  get anywhere. that seems to be the fashion. but that does  make it right. it does  mean we should continue to extend that process. what the senator from illis is trying to do is to deal with the hard core of unemployment. it is being dealt with  by a broader national policy of a tax cut. which i favor and the senator from illis favors. and by other measures. i hope. too. that it may be dealt with by a revamping of the antitrust laws. to help businesses by taking some of the burden off their backs. and things of that kind. that is what we are directing toward the 5 million unemployed. in addition. the joint ecoic committee has given a great deal of time and consideration to our fiscal policy. our moneymanagement policy. our credit policy. and our international balance of payments. . we are extremely timid about using the debt of the united states in order to do something about the retardation of the ecoic development of our country. i think we are overtimid about that. and are hurting ourselves. all these measures have direct relationship to this bill. which is for the purpose of dealing with hardcore unemploymentfor example. in pennsylvania. where. techogically. vast areas have been made obsolescent by virtue of changes in the ecoic situation. they may again be prosperous. for example. by means of the development of thermal production of steam. underground. but the bill is intended to deal with hardcore unemployment attributable ecoically to the fact that a community has lost an arm and a leg or two arms or two legs. on that basis. i support the bill. we should see to it that the bill provides the amounts needed. and we should make sure that there is fair administration which is catholic with respect to that objective. thus. the bill is a sound one. i believe that the amendment of the senator from pennsylvania is conducive to that end. and. therefore. that the bill as thus amended would be preferable to the bill without the amendment. i wish to emphasize why i support the bill and what the bill is supposed to do. i have  heard those points articulated sufficiently. the bill is important because it is justified in terms of using the resources of the united states to help meet the problem of unemployment. when we are dealing with hardcore unemployment. on the one hand. which is  susceptible of being dealt with by making other changes in the ecoic policy of the nation. so we are justified in apportioning our resources to that extent. furthermore. it is extremely important for us to give close attention to the administration of the act. in order to make - sure that it is used for the purposes for which congress makes the authorization. therefore. i hope all senators will be cognizant of what we are doing and of why we propose to make the allocation of the resources which are pinpointed to that purpose. i also hope the administration will be true to the basic idea of the program. which is most important to the states. new york state could live without this program. of course. although new york provides a large proportion of the tax revenue of the nation. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record a statement by the area redevelopment administration showing approved projects in new york.
. george meany. or labor itself. any other way out. i agree with mr. meany that automation is a major problem for american labor. that it is faced with a major crisis. but it is also a national problem. in the testimony before the subcommittee on employment and manpower of the committee on labor and public welfare. of which i am a member. job losses attributable to automation have been pictured as being very great. while i agree that this is a grave problem and a crisis for labor. it is also a crisis for the american government. for management. and for the people generally. i can agree that the optimum remedy is the shorter workweek.  do i believe that we are so bereft of more fundamental remedies that we must rely essentially upon expansion of government ecoic activity. as mr. meany recommends. his prescription also calls for public works projects. as if we were in a depression or recession. for tax relief in the lower income brackets. for steps to improve purchasing power. a higher minimum wage. and expansion of coverage. the tax reduction bill is in process. and i am confident it will be passed. so. too. will the minimum wage bill. the minimum wage will increase as our ecoy will allow it. the hours of work will be reduced. as they have been for years. when i was a boy. it was  unusual to work 54 hours a weekeven 60 hours a week. i did so myself. so the hours of work are getting shorter. as our ecoy allows it. i hope that we will  seek to solve the problems of automation and the dislocation of workers in the way mr. meany suggests. in my judgment. if we did it that way. it would jeopardize the security of the nation and its success in the struggle for freedom. which demand both maximum productivity and competitiveness. both with the communist system and within the free world. if we were to jeopardize productivity and competitivenes. it could bring us to a depression or to such ecoic troubles as to do us far more harm than the problems of automation. what we must do is to offer american labor an alternative. this is where we have fallen down badly. the basic way to cope with automation and the job dislocation which results is to prevail on both government and business to finance jointly the transition of workers into new lines and new places of employment. to provide them with financial aid through periods of automation induced unemployment. and also to facilitate the early retirement of workers nearing the age of retirement. as we realize the fruits of automation. the shorter workweek and higher earnings. including a higher minimum wage. will bring great benefit to the ecoy because they will have been earned. i look forward to a gross national product of one thousand billion dollars. perhaps in a decadeagainst the present $578 billion. if we can really automate the ecoy. so the stakes are emous for the workers. whose real income can almost double in that time.
it is interesting. when the senator says "praiseworthy." personally i think that these young people are taxing themselves more than they need to tax themselves and more than they should in fairness to themselves. however. i say to the senator that in all my work on this subjectof course. one can speak on public question in any terms of 100 percent. because there are bound to be young persons who will be unhappy about itbased upon my own campaign in 1962. when i toured my state forward and backward. and in all my work since that time. in 1961 and 1962. and thereafter. i must say in all honesty and candor and conscience that i have come to the conclusion that if the young worker is perfectly willing to accept this burden and this policy. and is willing to take it on. then one can say that a payasyougo plan is  a good thing. it is a good thing. if the people who are going to pay for it. even though it is uneven as far as they are concerned. in terms of the burden put upon them. instead of having the burden put upon all members of society. if they wish to carry that burden. i do  believe a legislator can say "nay" to them. that is why i have felt that i had to make the intellectual and policy turn which i made.
. it seems to me that. based on that record. we come within the qualifications which was made in the case of katzenbach against mcclung. decided in 1964. which reads: where we find that the legislators. in light of the facts and testimony before them. have a rational basis for finding a chosen regulatory scheme necessary to the protection of commercecommerce in that caseour investigation is at an end. i pointed out that if we inserted the words "voting right" in that finding in the place of the word "commerce." it is indeed as sacred a constitutional right as is the regulation of commerce under the constitution. one other factor which has also been developed in great detail is the disparity in income in poll tax states. in that the median income of negroes is between onehalf to onethird that of whites in mississippi. alabama. virginia. and texas. which makes such an ecoic burden on the right to vote an unequal burden. that proof is in the record. i refer  to the fact that many questions have been raised about bringing in the argument of the 14th as well as the 15th amendment. the reason is that we are entitled to sustain our objections to the poll tax as they will be put forward in court on the basis of the constitution in totality. it seems to me that the argument on the 14th amendment does  displace the argument on the 15th amendment. it buttresses that argument. in other words. the equalprotectiothelaws question goes to the point whether or  the right is denied or abridged under the 15th or 14th amendments. as i pointed out before. we were beaten on the ban. and we are  debating the question of the declaration. having lost on the ban on the poll tax. it seems to me the purpose of the amendment is to preserve the constitutional right to act against discrimination. denial. or abridgment. but it can longer be by a flat ban against the poll tax. that is where the case of vermont comes in. in this statement we are dealing with abridgment under the 15th amendment. but we have the right to employ the concept of the equal protection of the laws doctrine in order to prove our case under the 15th amendment. i do  see why we can use both the 14th and 15th amendments in order to accomplish the congressional purpose. which is to relieve the right to vote of the discrimination which is  shown. and which the poll tax is used as a means of perpetuating. this is the essential element. as i see it. of our argument. that is why the amendment we shall be voting on soon is so completely different from what we tried to do before. there is gainsaying or coloring of that fact. so we go next to a statement that it is a finding of fact. zeroed in on situations where the poll tax is being used as a means of denying the voting right.
it is  quite so open a proposition as all that. there are some reliable checks that can be made on information based upon the number of sales checks used by each employee. the treasury department has used them. it is significant that labor unions and the people themselves. in large numbers. are perfectly willinv to pay the taxes and desire to have social security coverage. do i correctly understand that the senator has  yet asked for the adoption of the committee amendments.
certainly. particularly since he ks he is going to have to pay income tax on the tips anyhow. but the social security tax in the case of waiters. waitresses. and other tipped employees will be enforced on them by withholding. i have heard from them and their unions. they desire that this be done. withstanding the public impression in some circles that this is a great way in which to avoid the income tax. these employees want it that way.
. i ask unanimous consent to have this article printed in the record. . there being objection. the article was ordered to be printed in the record. as follows: a jon for jim (by james nathan miller. condensed from the christian herald) jim robinsons story holds profound significance for the ecoic wellbeing of our country. a year ago. robinson was little more than a sorry national statistic. ("jim robinson" is a composite of three people whose basic stories are almost identical. only the details of their lives differ.) a 30yearold negro. unemployed. father of four children. he was separated from his wife. who was living on welfare payments. in 1951 when jim was 16 and possessed the reading ability of an eighthgrader. he dropped out of high school. since then he has held more jobs than he can remember. "maybe a hundred." he says. they were all bottomofthebarrel jobs that led here: horsehandler. chickenplucker. carwash man. sanitary maintenance helper. thus his statistical significance: when i met jim robinson he was a "hardcore unemployable." today this semiliterate negro dropout has successfully taken the first difficult steps toward a decent life. a decent job. and a decent place as head of his family. what changed jim was a blue mimeographed sheet handed him by a job counselor in the office of the new york state employment service. the heading read: ice of training recruitment under manpower development and training actnew york city. this act. passed by congress in 1962. offers people like jim the chance to learn a skill leading to steady work and to selfrespect as responsible citizens. i met robinson a year ago at the new york state employment service. where he had come looking for a job. his clothes were filthy. his face was hidden behind a 2day beard. as we talked. his eyes shifted constantly.  once meeting mine. how had he got into such shape. a social worker would say that jim had had a "disadvantaged youth" in a "culturally deprived environment." three stories jim told me of his early life give insight into those phrases.
. i submit for myself and the senator from vermont . an amendment to the elementary and secondary education amendments of 1966 . this amendment would bring under the benefits of title i of the elementary and secondary education act for the next fiscal year those children from families having annual incomes of less than $3.000 plus those children from families above that income level who are receiving funds from the aid to dependent childrenafdcprogram. utilizing the latest available figures. under present law. only children from the $2.000 income level and afdc children are included. the administration does  wish to have this raised to the $3.000 level until fiscal year 1968. this amendment looks to increasing the level to $3.000 for the next fiscal year instead of waiting an additional year. witnesses from the school districts have indicated that there would be difficulties in local planning if this were done  instead of waiting. under the present $2.000 level. some 5.5 million children. about 11 percent of the 41.7 million elementary and secondary schoolchildren in the nation are covered. under the amendment. 8.3 million children would be covered. an increase of some 50 percent. as presently written in s. 3046. the total maximum authorization for title i is $1.306.084.777. the office of education estimates that the total maximum authorization under this amendment would be $1.935.028.398. however. with respect to cost it should be ed that the administration bill has eliminated the incentive grant provision originally enacted last year in the elementary and secondary education act. thus cutting more than $400 million from the cost of this legislation for fiscal year 1967 as originally contemplated. the net cost is. therefore. about $200 million. maintaining the income level at $2.000 presents us with the aaly of a youngster being at the poverty level under present federal programs during his preschool and college years if he comes from a $3.000 annual income family. but being considered at the poverty level during his elementary and secondary school years only where his family earned $2.000 or less. the office of ecoic opportunity employs the $3.000 income as a poverty level in connection with its project headstart programs for preschool children. the $3.000 annual income level is also employed as a standard with respect to the granting of educational opportunity grants to college students under title iv of the higher education act of 1965. this amendment would bring some consistency to our education aid programs instead of waiting until fiscal year 1968 as the administration asks us to do. it should be ed that the witnesses appearing before the education subcommittee have favored this proposal unanimouslywith the exception only of administration witnesses. if the elementary and secondary education act is to achieve maximum effect next year. this amendment is needed. i hope that the administration will reconsider its position. i ask unanimous consent that the amendment. together with a chart prepared by the office of education indicating how much each state would receive under this amendment be printed in the record.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to provide the disabled an income tax deduction of up to $600 to cover transportation to and from work. and to allow them an additional $600 income tax deduction. as is  given to the blind.
. at its next printing. i ask unanimous consent that the name of the senator from maryland be added as a cosponsor of the bill to provide a deduction for income tax purposes. in the case of a disabled individual. for expenses for transportation to and from work. and to provide an additional exemption for income tax purposes for a taxpayer or spouse who is disabled.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the text of resolution  207. relative to "direct return of federal income tax to local units of government." which was adopted by the common council of the city of buffalo. n.y.. at its meeting held on june 28. 1966.
i am very grateful to my friend the senator from oregon. who "fought and bled"--in that tremendous battle in respect to the airline wage negotiations and strike. we see the inflationary psychology reflected in the wage demands of organized labor. in excessively high interest rates. in really rapidly rising prices. and in a confused and badly battered stock market. if permitted to continue and to gain momentum. this inflation will cause a serious recession. which can greatly damage the hardwon gains of all our people. including labor. and greatly aggravate the already profound social unrest that confronts our society. the reluctance of the administration and congress alike. as shown by this refusal to hold hearings. to face up to the inflation issue. and to meet our responsibility to the american people. is most deplorable. i have doubt that the people are ready to take on new burdens. if they are assured that that would insure the continuance of ecoic expansion at stable prices. i and others have offered proposals to deal with this dangerous situation. my proposals have included a temporary. acrosstheboard increase in corporate and individual taxes. a voluntary national credit restraint program. and deferral of certain essential government expenditures. such as certain selected government construction projects. the senator from louisiana ] has offered a suggestion with respect to the investment tax credit. it may have to be deferred for a time. i do  think it can have the immediate impact which is necessary. but etheless it deserves urgent consideration. these proposals may  provide the full answer. . i have said this very strongly. and i hope very much that it will find a responsive ear in the administration. which i think is making a very great mistake.
. for myself and the senator from missouri . i introduce a bill to provide the disabled an income tax deduction of up to $600 to cover transportation to and from work. and to allow them the same additional $600 income tax deduction as is  given the blind. it is estimated that some 300.000 disabled persons would qualify under this legislation. at a maximum cost to the government of $40 million. this cost seems small when we consider the average cost of from $479 to $544 to rehabilitate each disabled individual. what we will be doing through this legislation is helping these people to help themselves and aiding them to achieve some personal independence from institutions. from overburdened families. and from local and state governments. our handicapped citizens are capable of being productive workers. contributing to the nations ecoy instead of being dependent upon it. but their disabilities impose upon them additional expenses in pursuit of their livelihoods which are  fully tax deductible. such as special orthopedic devices. extra travel costs because they are unable to utilize routine methods of transportation. expensive additions to office. shop. or home to facilitate their movements. special prosthetic devices. higher insurance costs. and the costs of hiring help to perform the simple tasks which the handicapped perform for themselves. in addition. rising costs are particularly burdensome. for example. the prices of some special orthopedic shoes needed by the disabled have doubled in the past year. under this bill. the disabled taxpayer. in order to qualify for the additional $600 exemption. must suffer from a loss of one or more extremities or 50 percent or more loss of ability as defined under the schedule for rating disabilities of the veterans administration. in addition. both the blind and the disabled would qualify for the tax deduction of up to $600 for expenses of going to and from work. last year. some 30 govers indicated to the joint handicapped council their support of this proposal. it has had editorial support ranging from the new york times to the progressive farmer. endorsements also include the aflcio. the vfw. the general federation of womens clubs. the national association of social workers. and the national council of churches of christ. this measure is similar with the bill i introduced last year. s. 3304. and a successor to similar legislation which i first introduced in february 1950. in the 81st congress. as a member then of the house of representatives. the prospects for this bill seem especially bright . hundreds of thousands of americans have endeavored valiantly to transform their physical handicaps from stumbling blocks to building blocks. they wish to use their crutches to move on.  to lean on. this legislation will help them do just that. it is as harded and practical in ecoic terms as it is humanitarian. it is. in effect. a practical bill to benefit those who have alternative than but to be practical.
. i submit for myself and the senator from missouri . an amendment to the pending bill. h.r. 6950. and i ask that it be printed. this amendment is identical in language to s. 1239 which we introduced on march 9. it would provide the disabled an income tax deduction of up to $600 to cover transportation to and from work. and would allow them the same additional $600 income tax personal exemption  given the blind. the proposed amendment deals with problems of the handicapped and the difficulties they are under in conforming to the conditions of life which face them. and with their emous usefulness to the united states if some tax consideration could be given to those individual circumstances which result from the handicapped trying to earn their own way. and thus paying the united states 10 to 1 for everything it costs the country to get them to that condition. i submit it at this time. because it is the kind of amendment that all senators would desire to consider carefully and to read in advance. it is  a hotly contentious partisan matter. and i hope it may have the prayerful consideration overnight of the senator from louisiana . the manager of the bill. and of the other senators. it is estimated that some 300.000 disabled persons would qualify under this amendment at a maximum cost to the government of $40 million. this cost seems small when we consider the average cost of from $479 to$544 to rehabilitate each disabled individual. what we will be doing through this legislation is helping these people to help themselves and aiding them to achieve some personal independence from institutions. from overburdened families and from local and state governments. our handicapped citizens are capable of being productive workers. contributing to the nations ecoy instead of being dependent upon it. but their disabilities impose upon them additional expenses in pursuit of their livelihoods which are  fully tax deductible. such as special orthopedic devices. extra travel costs because they are unable to utilize routine methods of transportation. expensive additions to office. shop. or home to facilitate their movements. special prosthetic devices. higher insurance costs and the costs of hiring help to perform the simple tasks which the handicapped perform for themselves. in addition. rising costs are particularly burdensome. for example. the prices of some special orthopedic shoes needed by the disabled have doubled in the past year. under this amendment. the disabled taxpayer. in order to qualify for the additional $600 exemption. must suffer from a loss of one or more extremities or 50 percent or more loss of ability as defined under the schedule for rating disabilities of the veterans administration. in addition. both the blind and the disabled would qualify for the tax deduction of up to $600 for expenses of going to and from work. last year. some thirty govers had indicated to the joint handicapped council their support of this proposal. it has had editorial support ranging from the new york times to the progressive farmer. endorsements also include the aflcio. the vfw. the general federation of womens clubs. the national association of social workers. and the national council of churches of christ. this measure is similar to the bill i introduced last year. s. 3304. and a successor to similar legislation which i first introduced in february 1950 in the 81st congress as a member then of the house of representatives. hundreds of thousands of americans have endeavored valiantly to transform their physical handicaps from stumbling blocks to building blocks. they wish to use their crutches to move on.  to lean on. this amendment will help them do just that. it is as harded and practical in ecoic terms as it is humani.tarian. it is. in effect. a practical bill to benefit those who have alternative than but to be practical. i ask unanimous consent that the amendment. together with an article published in the new york times of april 16. 1967. by dr. howard rusk. who is famous in this field. and whose article inspired me to submit the amendment. be printed in the record. mally. i would wait for hearings to be held. and so forth. but dr. rusk has made such a vitally strong case for this proposal. that i hope it will commend itself to my colleagues.
. this bill represents a long overdue reform. it is a reform that should be considered on its own merits and action on it should  be delayed because of differences of opinion which may exist with respect to other reforms of the unemployment tax act. i. therefore. hope that it will receive the speediest possible consideration by the senate.
one of the foundations primary purposes is to establish domestic institutions called national development foundations in latin american countries. the national development foundation is designed to mobilize the energies and resources of the local private sector and to stimulate and reinforce participation in selfhelp efforts at all levels of society. the national development foundation* acts essentially as a financing institution. it derives its capital from contributions and membership subscriptions of local companies and individuals. monthly dues from members assure steady income to defray administrative expenses. to provide maximum incentives for local donations. funds raised locally are matched from a reserve fund made available by the pan american development foundation. this growing endowment. in turn. is neither spent  given away in grants. rather. it is invested in lowinterest loans. predominantly to responsible marginal groups. the pan american development foundation maintains affiliation with the national foundations and provides technical assistance in foundation management and administration. and. as operations proceed. arranges for professional fundralsing assistance. the first national development foundation in latin america. the dominican development foundation. began operations in the dominican republic in july 1966. it is governed by a board of 18 prominent business and civic leaders who set its policies and manage its funds. technical assistance funds for its establishment were made available to the pan american development foundation by u.s. foundations. substantial matching funds for use in the dominican republic were provided by a farsighted grant made to the pan american development foundation by the u.s. agency for international development. the investment is proving worthwhile. the founding group of 23 major dominican companies has grown to 102 companies and individuals providing continuing support. over $100.000 has been raised locally. despite a traditional belief that development is the governments business. sixty loans totaling more than $135.000 have financed a wide variety of projects. recommended to the foundation by public. private and international development agencies and technicians. most loans have been made to marginal groups. cooperatives. with new equipment and materials. have increased their productivity. enabling members to raise their standard of living and participate more actively in the ecoic life of the country. urban slum groups and entire rural communities are becoming consumers and "taxpayers" as they pay for such needed improvements as wells. schools. dispensaries and community centers. repayment is made at the rate of a few pennies per family per week. with local committees establishing their own system of sanctions to enforce payment by all participating families. marginal sector response has been excellent. the dominican foundation reports that the poorer people actually prefer a loan to a government or charitable handout. and are proud they can pay their own way. their dignity is preserved and even increased by the prestige of having qualified for a loan from an institution composed of the countrys leading businessmen. the loan process itself. through its inherent learning experience and group discussion. reinforces group maturity and unity. the private sector response has also been excellent. the board carefully manages the foundations funds and evaluates the moral guarantees for repayment offered by each group. involvement and concern are evident from the growing list of contributors and the participation of members in working committees. which provide the staff with managerial and administrative assistance. the business community is becoming increasingly aware of the potential of the marginal groups for responsible participation in the ecoic life of the country. i believe recognition is due to this imaginative effort of the pan american development foundation. which illustrates the potential to be realized from placing the method. means. and responsibility for development directly in the hands of the people.
 expressed his concern that some returning veterans had such difficulty finding jobs that they had to rely on unemployment compensation. throughout the nation 174.932 recent dischargeesroughly speaking. men who had served in the armed forces within the prior yearfiled for unemployment compensation and drew those benefits for an average total of 10.7 weeks during fiscal year 1966. in new york state alone. over 9.000 veterans filed for unemployment during the comparable period and were unemployed for 9.2 weeks. the national figures for fiscal year 1967 are 161.878 veterans who drew unemployment compensation for an average total of 9.3 weeks. these statistics hardly present a reassuring picture of material security and ecoic opportunity for the many men who have served in the service of their nation during a critical period. third. to afford our veterans the fullest opportunity possible to obtain job training. i also introduce a bill which would permit a veteran to use his educational assistance for courses which have been in existence for less than 2 years. provided the administrator of veterans affairs specifically waives the requirement. the purpose of this change is to grant the administrator flexibility. in the next few years we will. hopefully. witness many new training opportunities made available to veterans through the cooperation of government agencies. private concerns. and labor unions. as for example in the new electronics. automation. or computer techniques. under present law. such courses are effectively foreclosed to veterans--matter their value and relevance to his needs--merely because they are new. i am aware of the dangers posed by such a change. but a careful use of the administrators discretion will broaden educational and training opportunities for veterans without permiting the use of veterans benefits for programs without substance. the administrator should have this flexibility. it is my intention also to offer these three bills as amendments to the bills dealing with veterans benefits currently being considered by the veterans affairs subcommittee. i hope that these measures will be considered at the same time. the young men who are being asked to bear the burdens of the bloody and tragic conflict in vietnam are acquiring leadership traits and selfassurance which will be invaluable in civilian life. we must guarantee that we have created an open society. a society of opportunity. receptive to the talents. skills. and commitments of our returning combat soldiers. we have far to go in creating such a society. this fact is dramatically reflected in the disparity in reenlistment figures. in october 1967 the bureau of labor statistics reported that 46 percent of whites reenlist after their first term in the armed forces. as compared to 18 percent of the whites. these men are expressing a belief that opportunity and security will be greater for them in uniform than in civilian life. we can accept this situation. it is our obligation to insure that. at least for those men who have been asked to bear the burdens and to pay the horrible price of vietnam combat. the society for which they have fought and to which they will one day return. is also one of full opportunity.
the pending amendment was raised in committee and was voted on there. and voted down. there were two items before the committee. which dealt with the general area of problems in the cities. one item was the amendment offered by the senator from texas and myself which. with the very kind intercession of the senator from west virginia who took on the laboring oar in the committee. we worked out for summer jobs. certainly. it seems to me that the $75 million was as much a bulls eye in this problem as one could find. it is the same figure we had last year. and which did so much in many cities including many of the cities of new york state. in my view it was the principal factor which gave us a reasonable chance of preserving order. and holding down the forces of civil disobedience. disruption. and riot. when we see the rates of unemployment and underemployment in ghetto areas. we realize how critically important is this amount of money. although in relation to the budget it is  large. this is a very sharp arrow pointed at a very special target. . s request. the appropriation we made was $327 million. a difference of $25 million. the $25 million reduction cut 13.000 slots out of headstart. plus 2.500 subprofessional workersthat is. the poor themselves who are actually employed in headstart. the 2.500 persons being in the poverty category. also. headstart allows quite a few parents to obtain jobs since it provides day care for their children. the number of thousands involved in that we really do  k. but they are considerable. but we do k the deprivation of the 13.000 slots and the cutback of the subprofessional workers.
it was my understanding that the distinguished senator from pennsylvania had so stated. i do take this time. however. to say a few words about the matter of ecoy. the total amount involved in all of the items which have been sent back to conference with instructions that the senate provision is to be adhered to. if humanly possible. amounts to $200 million. we have outlined time and again in the debate on the income tax increase and the $6 billion expenditure reduction that  only are those two things needed. but that a proper allocation of the priorities of the nation is also needed. and in the absence of a proper allocation of priorities on the part of the president. congress must take the matter into its own hands and do it the best way it can. as i understand it. the vote is for a reallocation of those priorities to deal with the very urgent program outlined: time and again in the long debate on excise taxes. we have outlined today exactly what there is to cut. there is $100 billion to cut. . may we have order.
. i introduce a bill to provide the disabled an income tax deduction of up to $600 to cover transportation to and from work. and to allow them the same additional $600 income tax deduction as is  given the blind. this measure is a companion bill to h.r. 424 introduced on january 3 by the distinguished chairman of the ways and means committee of the house of representatives. hon. wilbur mills. and it is a successor of the legislation i first introduced in february 1950 in the 81st congress. as a member then of the house. it is estimated that some 300.000 disabled persons would qualify under this legislation. at a maximum cost to the government of about $130 each or $40._ 000.000 per year. this cost seems small when we consider the average cost of from $479 to $544 per year to rehabilitate each disabled individual. what we will be doing through this legislation is helping these people to help themselves and aiding them to achieve some personal independence from institutions. from overburdened families. and from local and state governments. our handicapped citizens are capable of being productive workers. contributing to the nations ecoy instead of being dependent upon it. but their disabilities impose upon them additional expenses in pursuit of their livelihoods which are  fully tax deductible. such as special orthopedic devices. extra travel costs because they are unable to utilize routine methods of transportation. expensive ad.ditions to office. shop. or home to facilitate their movements. special prosthetic devices. higher insurance costs. and the costs of hiring help to perform the simple tasks which the handicapped perform for themselves. in addition. rising costs are particularly burdensome. for example. the prices of some special orthopedic shoes needed by the disabled have doubled in the past year. under this bill. the disabled taxpayer. in order to qualify for the additional $600 exemption. must suffer from a loss of one or more extremities or 40 or more loss of ability as defined under the schedule for rating disabilities of the veterans administration. in addition. both the blind and the disabled would qualify for the tax deduction of up to $600 for expenses of going to and from work. the prospects for this bill seem especially bright . hundreds of thousands of americans have endeavored valliantly to transform their physical handicaps from stumbling blocks to building blocks. they wish to use their crutches to move on.  to lean on. this legislation will help them do just that. it is as practical in ecoic terms as it is humanitarian. it is. in effect. a practical bill to benefit those who have alternative but to be practical.
coming as i do from the largest city in the country and king the temper of my people. let me sayand i k it is a risky thing to say. but i say it with my eyes wide openi do  think the poor of my city would give me less than a 95percent mandate to fight for the $55 million even if means losing the $10 million. i think that it is simply a matter of dignity. we are either substantially right. or we are completely wrong. and i think we are substantially right. i have told the senator from west virginia. and i will tell the senator from rhode island. that there is a figure less than $55 million at which i am willing to be practical. but it can be $10 million. and if that is the best offer. we had better just go to a vote and forget it. therefore. i should like to address myself to some of the merits of what the senator from west virginia has suggested. the hearings and the testimony are troublesome. and the senator from west virginia makes. in my judgment. a very sound point on that. unhappily for all of us. this is endemic in the kind of problem we face in the summer job field. we even faced it with the last administration. which was in office for a number of years. but also had budget estimate and there was testimony. et cetera. i was faced with the same problem then. the reason is that you do  mobilize and understand your situation until very late in the game. the numbers of youth who will be around. the numbers that private enterprise is likely to employ. what your regular ongoing. yearround programs have been able to accomplish in terms of summer employment--all of that information does  become ascertainable until along about the middle of may or early june. so it is the kind of situation which is bound to come to the senate. because that is where this bill is considered last and which is late blooming as it were. since you really do  k the facts until you get to the very end. this is  unusual for this program. and i should like very much for the senator from west virginia to follow this. if senators will look at page 2 of the committee report. they will see that the senate bill is some $600 million over the house bill. the reason. very logically. is that. first. there are new budget estimates that come in between the time the house of representatives passes its bill and the time the matter comes before the senate. and. second. there are other emergency submissions of exactly this character. and the committee lists several: flood control and prevention. the interamerican development associationwhere the legislation was passed recently. veterans pension and readjustment benefitswhich are automatic. medical care for veteranswhich can never be anticipated too much in advance. and an item covering fire damage for the atomic energy commission. this is that kind of an emergency submission. that is the only basis on which i can put it. as a former member of the appropriations committee. i am very sympathetic with the senator from west virginia in his feeling about the evidence. that is why. perhaps a little unusually. we have literally put the case in. in facts and figures. right here before the senate. i account for that only because we just could  do it any sooner. there is "latches" involved. as we lawyers say. it is just a lateblooming proposition. in addition. we have a new administration. and the labor department was completely preoccupied with its defense of the job corps camp closings. so that it spent weeks and weeks on that. and ody could actually get at this problem. the best proof for that is that the labor department itself is very uncertain about its situation because. in a space of 10 days to 3 weeks. they went from $7.5 million to $10 million. and if we give them aher 2 weeks. they will probably go to $20 million or $25 million. this is a matter of getting down to the grassroots and ascertaining what should be done. there is aher clue to what should be the proper amount here. i iced with great interest that the senator from west virginia and the senator from rhode islandthough less soused interchangeably two expressions in questioning the labor department: "what do you need." and "what can you use." let us understand. the labor department is  passing on what they can use. they can use egh money to give summer jobs to 1.5 million kids. and they need that. the question is really. what can they operationally absorb. there we have a real difference between the labor department. which says they can operationally absorb $10 million. for roughly 24.000 slots. and the mayors. who are the men on the ground administering these programs. who say they can use effectively 136.000 slots and $55 million. in addition. when you compare the figures of the labor department. which i did a little earlier. with the figures of the mayors. we begin to realize that the wideness of the disparity is heavily attributable to the fact that the labor department took it by regions. which is bound to give a very undue emphasis to the larger cities. and the mayors took it city by city. for example. i used as an illustration region  2. which includes new york city. where its mayor certifies for 21.621 slots. but the labor department requests. for the whole region. only 5.413. obviously. someone is being shortchanged here. finally. i should like to point out that the mayors have established detailed effective use figures for the 50 largest cities. i have  heard those figures challenged. though they have been in the record since monday. on that basis alone. the additional requirementleaving the smaller cities out altogetheris for 72.382 slots. which would amount to a figure of about $30 million. so the order of magnitude suggested by the committee is really completely out of line. considering the order of magnitude of what. in my judgment. we have proved in the way of hard evidence. in presenting this issue to the senate. . a number of senators are imminently leaving the city. waiting only to vote. and i hope very much that we can get to a vote very" promptly. i ask for the yeas and nays on my amendment.
. on september 23. the dynamic new director of the peace corps. joseph blatchford. made an important speech before the national building trades council meeting in atlantic city. the title of mr. blatchfords speech was "willing hands and skilled: a partnership for peace." in this speech. mr. blatchford broke new ground in peace corps thinking and laid out his rationale for broadening peace corps recruitment to include significant representation from the ranks of skilled craftsmen and tradesmenmen who have the practical skill and experience in many of the jobs most urgently needed to be performed in the developing nations. i hope his eloquent plea will be heard and responded to by the new audiencies mr. blatchford is trying to reach. i ask unanimous consent that the text of mr. blatchfords address be printed in the record.
if i may reply to that. i think the disquiet which senator williams has voiced is one that is in the mind of every senator. i think we are all indebted to men such as senator ellender and senator williams who take their time. on an off day. when so many others are  here to watch the dollars and to hold usi am the ranking miity member of this committeeto account for every dollar we seek. i join with senator yarborough in this matter. i should like to answer. if i may. because i think we must take it on a finite basis. i would be the first to affirm that one can avoid some overlapping. you might as well muzzle every witness. if you would avoid overlapping. i think the line of distinction is clear. in the subcommittee on juvenile delinquency. senator dodd is really after the user. the recipient. the influence of television. which he has gone into. on the cult of violence and the cult of drugs. these are critically important things. on the other hand. in the committee on labor and public welfare we are concerned with treatment. with cure. with research. with sources of supply. i think these are jurisdictions appropriately apposite to the work of each committee. the committee on the judiciary is concerned with the courts. it is concerned with juvenile delinquency laws. it is concerned with truancy laws. it is concerned with the crime that narcotics addicts commit in order to meet their need. in the area of illegality in which they operate. senator hughes subcommittee is concerned with rehabilitation. with things like the methadone treatment. the halfway houses such as we have in new york. and in dealing with alcoholics. i might point out that alcoholism is a terribly neglected area in our country. we are talking about something that costs american business alone. for sheer absenteeism. an estimated at least two billion dollars a year and probably much more. $2 billion is the lowest possible figure you can pick. that is in addition to a much higher accident rate. we k. for example. that the fourth most important health problem in the country is alcoholism. i think we all owe a very deep debt of gratitude to senator hughes. for the first time. with the coming of his subcommittee. we have begun to seize hold of this problem in our committee. senator moss and i never got very far with our bill until this subcommittee came along. to make it a living matter of interest to the whole country. so i do think. without in any way trying to gild the lily and say there is duplication. that in substance there is ample jurisdiction for both. and the job that needs to be done is critically important in both. finally. s veto of that budget recently. it seems to me that legislative oversight in. these fantastically ramified areas. in which you have buildings upon buildings. thousands upon thousands of federal employees. must be understood to cost us a little money. i think it is only fair to lay that beside the $3 million which is being appropriated for judiciary. concern about crime is on the mind and in the heart of every american. but. i respectfully submit. so is health. education. welfare. and the aged. they are emous problems which the committee on labor and public welfare handles. let alone american labor itself. thus. i. too. believeand i am  trying to be doctrinaire about itthat there may be duplication and we can do many things better but. on the whole. this budget is designed to do the job that needs to be done. it is  extravagant. i hope very much that the senate will approve.
. to complete the point. the fact is that the bureau of labor statistics gives us a figure which indicates the lowest possible budget required in metropolitan areaswhich is defined as places having a population of from 2.500 to 50.000the lowest conceivable cost analyzed here is $3.945. there are families living on farms who receive the benefits of produce from the farm. they amount to a very small proportion of the population. i ho them and love them dearly. but i do  think that is a criterion that ought to control the situation. they would have a lesser standard than in other areas. where we have to set a standard. and in the overwhelming majority of the population of the united states. the standard is at least 25 percent below the actual living cost on a lowbudget average.
. the senates action last night by a 51to29 vote approving a supplemental appropriation totaling $100 million for the neighborhood youth summer program represents an historic commitment to tackle one of the most critical problems facing our troubled cities todayteenage joblessness. the additional funding provides the full amount recommended by the u.s. conference of mayors as required to meet the minimum needs of the nations citieslarge and smallto take disadvantaged youths off the streets and to put them into meaningful summer employment. it also comes to grips with the growing national unemployment problem. these summer jobs offer teenagers from ghetto areas the opportunity to earn egh money to allow them to remain in school during the rest of the year and. in some cases. to acquire skills that will be useful in the years to come. when i appeared last month before the supplemental appropriations subcommittee to testify in behalf of my amendment for the additional funding of $100 million. i ed that the situation was particularly critical this summer in view of the special impact of high national unemployment in poverty areas. since i testified on may 27. the national unemployment level has increased from 4.8 to 5 percenta jump that will be felt especially in the ghettos and slums where the teenage jobless rate was already close to 16 percent back in march. the unemployment rate among black teenagers during the first quarter of this year was 32.7 percent compared with 20.9 percent in the first quarter of 1969. the subcommittee. under the chairmanship of the senator from west virginia . is to be highly commended for its response to the problem in reporting out a supplemental for the summer jobs program of $50 miliona figure which also won the support of the administration. the senate. in agreeing to a total supplemental of $100 million. has shown a keen awareness of the mammoth proportions of the teenage unemployment problem. if the labor department follows the need figures of the conference of mayorsas i hope very much it willthe addition $100 million could provide 165.298 additional summer job slots for the nations 50 largest cities and 61.875 additional slots for the smaller cities above the total of 333.000 slots provided under the current appropriation of $147.9 million. for my own city of new york. an additional 37.081 summer jobs are needed according to the mayors conference above the 125.419 jobs covered by the current appropriation. and could be provided under the $100 million supplemental. it is vital that the house of representatives sees fit to concur in the additional $100 million funding for the summer program so that the nation can keep the summer cool and the future promising for the disadvantaged youth in our cities.
. i share the commitment to that goal and to its implementation. and accordingly i introduce this measure at this time. the proposed act is designed to provide a framework and substantial funding for the coordinated evolution of child development programs with the objective of eventually making such programs universally available throughout the nation. the basic principles on which i have drafted this bill are the following: first. there should be provided a full range of activities designed to promote the intellectual. emotional. social and physical growth of children through age 13. with a strong priority for the needs of preschool children. particularly children of lowincome families. second. the essential decisions with respect to child development programs should be made at the community level where comprehensive services can be provided. parents and other members of the family can participate fully in determining the direction as well as the conduct of programs. and where existing programs can be consolidated. integrated and coordinated. third. those on the community level. who are operating programs according to the way i envisage them. should have the benefit of technical assistance from state agencies in identifying goals and needs. effecting coordination between programs within the state. strengthening health. educational. child welfare. and other essential components of community programs and providing supportive research. development. and evaluation. fourth. the proper role of the federal government is in maintaining a strong oversight to insure that continue to focus on children of lowincome families. and that programmatic quality is advanced throughout the nation through research. demonstration. and evaluative activities. as i shall outline later. the federal government can serve aher special functionby becoming a model employer insofar as child development programs are concerned. in dealing with the children of its own employees. fifth. relating to the programs which are ongoing . we should  only maintain. but expand the role of community action. singlepurpose headstart agencies. and other communitybased and parentformed organizations. as well as educational and child welfare agencies. which have brought child development to the threshold of universal expansion. finally. business. industry. labor. employee. and labormanagement organizations should be encouraged to contribute funds to community programs and provide facilities at or near a place of business in the context of total community plans. to carry out these principles the proposed act consists of three titles: under title i. the secretary of health. education. and welfare is directed to fund child programs pursuant to community child care plans developed by broadly representative councils at the community level. with technical assistance provided from a state child care council pursuant to a state child care assistance plan. the following amounts are authorized for such purposes: $900.000.000 for fiscal year 1973. $1.800.000.000 for fiscal year 1974. and $2.800.000.000 for fiscal year 1975. in round figures. this represents an aggregate of about $5 billion. title ii authorizes additional amounts for federal activities such as research. demonstration. and evaluation. and for special programs for children of federal employees. under this title. the following amounts are authorized: $125.000.000 for fiscal year 1973. $175.000.000 for fiscal year 1974. and $175.000.000 for fiscal year 1975. making a total of $475 million. title iii contains general authorities with respect to the operation of the provisions of the act. but titles i and ii are the main components. with this general background. i shall  indicate the manner in which each of the objectives and principles is met in terms of specific provisions of the proposal which i submit today.
. i plead only because i think we all k that we have come to an accommodation. as it were. with the summer jobs problem. we k the senate does  have to be threatened with riots and disorders. we k it is an element of great stability and a useful thing. it is just a question of degree. with all the rationale of a much heavier unemployment loadand we all k the likelihood is that it is  going to change too much by summerthe needs of the mayors. and the additional difficulties of the cities. i hope it would enable us at this time to be a little more forehanded by taking to conference last years figures.
. i introduce a bill to provide the disabled for the current year an income tax deduction of up to $650 to cover transportation to and from work and to allow them the same additional $650 income tax deduction as is  given the blind. this amount would increase as the personal deduction sum increases. as provided in the tax reform act of 1970. this measure is a companion bill to h.r. 424 introduced on january 22 by the distinguished chairman of the ways and means committee of the house of representatives. hon. wilbur mills. and is a successor of the legislation i first introduced in february 1950 in the 81st congress. as a member then of the house. this bill is. in part. similar to the amendment to the tax reform act of 1969 which was sponsored by the distinguished senator from arizona of which i was a cosponsor. that amendment. which was approved by the senate on december 4. 1969. provided for a tax deduction of up to $600 to the handicapped for transportation. unfortunately. the provision was lost in conference. our handicapped citizens are capable of being productive workers. contributing to the nations ecoy instead of being dependent upon it. but their disabilities impose upon them additional expenses in pursuit of their livelihoods which are  fully deductible. such as special orthopedic devices. extra travel costs because they are unable to utilize routine methods of transportation. expensive additions to shop or home to facilitate their movements. special prosthetic devices. higher insurance costs. and the costs of hiring help to perform the simple tasks which the handicapped. perform for themselves. in addition. rising costs are particularly burdensome. what we will be doing through this legislation is helping these people to help themselves and aiding them to achieve some personal independence from institutions. from overburdened families. and from local and state governments. hundreds of thousands of americans have endeavored valiantly to transform their physical handicaps from stumbling blocks to building blocks. they wish to use their crutches to move on.  to lean on. this legislation will help them to do just that. it is as practical in ecoic terms as it is humanitarian. it is. in effect. a practical bill to benefit those who have alternative than to be practical.
 and the secretary of the treasury today that we have been very thoroughly heard at the white house and by the executive department and that we have a right to expect things will begin to develop along these lines. i shall seek early hearings in the committee on labor and public welfare. to which the productivity bill will be referred. as i understand it. just as the bill of the senator from massachusetts
. i am deeply interested in liberal trade as being essential to the continued prosperity of the free world and to the peace and future of our nation. similarly it is inexcusable for a mature and rich nation such as the united states  to have an adequate. and effective assistance program to workers and businesses who are very materially affected by a sudden descent upon them of imports. other nations are far in advance to the united states in this area. i have  received from the secretaries of labor and commerce their analysis of what is wrong and how limited this assistance is. i ask unanimous consent that their letters be printed in the recoad. and i shall do my utmost as we consider trade matters to change radically the approach to adjustment assistance so that instead of putting a very small amount of money in long after the fact. which is really quite ineffective. we try to find a truly effective way in which to help american workers and businesses which suffer serious injury respecting imports without thwarting or destroying the international ecoic policy of the united states that is so indispensable to the peace and prosperity of our country. our nations adjustment assistance programs must be reformed and strengthened. to be successful in the future. they must be based on practical criteria and they must successfully blend federally assisted r. & d. programs. selected provision of loan guarantee programs. selected use of tax incentives. selected provision of direct loans and better informational and evaluation systems. i am pleased that the secretaries of commerce and labor have assured me that a major interagency review of the whole program of adjustment assistance is underway with an eye toward submitting new legislative proposals and reforming and expediting the system. while the congress and the federal government must concern themselves. more adequately. with the human problems caused by jobs that have been lost because of imports. we must also better protect those jobs that are threatened by a sudden increase in imports over a short period of time or that result from unfair foreign competitive conditions. however. we must do this without overturning and totally disrupting the international ecoic system as some legislative proposals would do. toward this former end. we must enforce more conscientiously the laws. regulations. and international codes already on the booksthe antidumping and countervailing duty laws and the articles of the gatt. we must rethink the function and trigger mechanism of the escape clauseat present there is little escape from serious injury from imports in the escape clause. one necessary change clearly is making injury a separate matter from past tariff concessions. we must also put into effect a functionary early warning system to insure that our nation. or a state. or a community does  wake up one day to find that an essential industry is more because of the sudden impact of imports. there must be a beginning point and pending the passage of new legislation this beginning point could be in the area of adjustment assistance. although new legislative authority is also needed here if an effective program is to be mounted. it is in this spirit that i wrote to the secretaries of commerce and labor and in which i ask that my letter to them and their replies be printed in the congres-
. i do  k how many additional fulltime jobs we could create by actually reducing the amount of really unneeded overtime work in american industry. but i have seen egh evidence to indicate that there is a possibility of creating several hundred thousand new jobs if we could just spread the work that is available a little more equitably than it is  being spread. i make these remarks today to indicate for the record that in my view with the passage of s. 1861 further consideration of changes in the overtime requirements of the flsa are  a dead issue until the need arises to raise the minimum wage again. there is a great need to go into the overtime problem in more depth and i shall ask the committee on labor and public welfare. in the near future. to turn its attention to this problem. i certainly intend to continue my own work in this area with a view toward introducing appropriate legislation at the beginning of the next session.
. this is a very interesting chart. it shows how .the $1 billion would be divided. it shows that 26 states according to this chart lose more than they actually spend. which was roughly $1.5 billion in the preceding fiscal year. and even after we take the scare headlines which we saw in may of 1972. even on that basis $1.759 billion was spent. and  any $4.5 billion figure. the loss is very high. and the chart adjusts the figures for the two items remaining. child care and family planning. also it shows that over half of the states. and by far the most populous states. lose on this $1 billion basis. this makes it crystal clear as to the absolute necessity of supporting the senators amendment. does the senator mind if i have the chart printed in the record.
dole. brock. taft. gambrell. dominick. and beall. it is a simple amendment. its purpose is to provide that social security benefits paid on or on behalf of a child shall  be taken into account in determining whether such child is receiving more than half the support from the taxpayer. the purpose is to correct what i consider to be a gross inequity in the law. under the present law. a parent must contribute more than half the cost of a child to claim the child as a deduction. social security benefits paid in behalf of children of a widow or widower is considered income of the children. consequently. the widow must be able to prove that she contributed more to the support of the child than the value of the social security benefits paid for that child. i believe this is grossly unfair to widows or widowers of low income. let me illustrate and this is a true case. a widow with four children received $1.900 social security benefits on behalf of the children. she worked and earned $3.000 a year. so she had a total of $4.900 to raise her children. but the internal revenue challenged her right to a deduction for the children because she could  prove that she contributed more than $1.900 for the care of her children. this is a gross inequity because it discriminates against widows with low annual incomes. if a widow has a large annual income she can. of course. pass the dependency test easily. for example. if this widow has a $20.000 income instead of $3.000. she would have difficulty at all showing that she contributed more than $1.900 for the care of her children. furthermore. a wealthy family can hire lawyers and be in a position to prove it. but the widow with a low income is handicapped because she is  in the practice of keeping receipts. canceled checks. or the other things which she must do in order to show that she is supporting her children to this extent. as i say. this is a true case which occurred in delaware. we will find it is true throughout the country. i received a letter from the widow who caused me to introduce this legislation. and i should like to read it to the senate: senator william v. roth. jr.. new senate office building. washington. d.c. dear senator roth: i am writing in an appeal for help in my problem with internal revenue service. this is my story. my husband died in 1968. leaving me with four children. ages 17 yrs. 15 yrs. and twins 21 years. i applied for and received social security benefits for these children. however. i still claimed them as dependents on my income tax return. the problem is this: they are checking my income tax return for the year 1970. because they say that since they received social security benefits i can claim them as dependents. . this seems a little ridiculous to me because anyone can tell you that social security benefits will  contribute egh income to keep an individual alone. this is all i receive and i have never asked for anything else as far as medical. dental. or anything. i have continued to work every day. which necessitates babysitting money. which i am  wondering if it was a wise choice. my husband. being a heart patient. did  obtain the mortgage fee insurance he should have had. as a result of this. i had to give up the home we had built. i have made personal loans when the going became rough and have done the last and final thing i can do. i have sold my furniture to pay bills. i have hing else to sell. i have borrowed the limit i feel i can repay. the internal revenue service ified me that i must substantiate that i had contributed more than social security benefits towards the keeping of these children. this i have tried to do as you will see by the onclosed. cancelled checks are all i have to prove anything. since i had idea that there was any question that i would claim them for dependents. they will  accept what i have given them as proof. i did  submit copies of cancelled checks for the whole year. but picked different months to try to show them that what i had given them was correct. i do  k what else i can do. i do k that i think i should be allowed some credit for working every day and using this money to keep my family in a home. food. clothing. heat. medication. etc. there are only a few alternatives that i can think of:  1send all the bills pertaining to the childrens upkeep to irs.  2have the children put in a home and let them receive the social security on which they must be kept.  3quit work. apply for additional benefits and let the taxpayers keep all of us. or  4find the deepest river and highest bridge and take a flying leap and let the state worry about keeping the children. what would you suggest. i only have ten days to come up with more proof for irs. but i really at last am at my wits end. i only k that it takes all i make plus what they receive to keep a roof on their heads. clothes on their back. food in their stomachs. insurance. and medication when they are ill. the woman was finally able to prove her case. but she has given up claiming the children as a deduction because the burden is too great. but as i say. this part of the revenue code is a gross inequity. instead of rewarding a woman and giving her an incentive to work. we are encouraging her to go on relief. i might say that i have checked into the amount she would obtain if she were to go on relief and it turned out that she would receive more than $5.000 a year in welfare benefits. and of course she would pay taxes. i say this is contrary to the purpose of h.r. 1. that is to get people back to work and taking care of their own children. i ask the senate to support my amendment.
. i would like  to present a statement of our basic position in respect to this proposal. in terms of the elements involved. our amendment would strike from the committee bill section 431 which would add to the social security act a new title xxi for child care and establish a new "bureau of child care" to administer the program. the new title contains an authorization of $800 million for fiscal year 1972 and "such sums" for years thereafter. in lieu of the completely new program contemplated under title xxi. our amendment would provide a special authorization for child care in the amount of $800 million for each of the fiscal years 1973 and 1974. to be administered through the existing social services program conducted under title iva of the social security act. we submit that  that implementation of comprehensive welfare reform will be delayed it is inappropriate to launch a new comprehensive program through an essentially new agency and that the interim authority which we propose is needed.
i hope the senator is correct. but we believewe will check it furtherthat new york is out of everything. and i assure the senator that i have some very deep feelings about new york. with 39 members of the house of representatives. being shut out of everythingsocial services. revenue sharing. and unemployment compensation.
. i introduce a bill to provide the disabled an income tax deduction of up to $750 to cover transportation to and from work and to allow them the same additional $750 income tax deduction as is  given the blind. this measure is a companion bill to h.r. 3150 introduced on january 29 by the distinguished chairman of the house committee on ways and means. representative wilbur mills. and is a successor to legislation i first introduced in february of 1950 when a member of the house of representatives. this proposal is a logical sequence to a series of enactments by the congress of legislation designed to help the handicapped become useful and productive citizens. the civilian vocational rehabilitation act of 1920 provided grants in aid for such services as job training and artificial limbs. subsequent major expansions in 1943. 1954. and the 1960s broadened the scope of the program to include. among other things. corrective surgery. equipping rehabilitation facilities and sheltered workshops. my proposal is  a logical next step. the nation is  expending more than $1 billion annually for rehabilitation programs. the ecoic incentive envisioned by this bill i am introducing today would further help these people to help themselves and aid them to achieve some personal independence from institutions. from overburdened families. and from local and state governments. it has long been evident that our handicapped citizens are capable of being productive workers. contributing to the nations ecoy instead of being dependent upon it. but their disabilities impose upon them additional expenses in pursuit of their livelihoods which are  fully deductible. such as special orthopedic devices. extra travel costs because they are unable to utilize routine methods of transportation. expensive additions to shop or home to facilitate their movements. special prosthetic devices. higher insurance costs. and the costs of hiring help to perform the simple tasks which the handicapped perform for themselves. in addition. rising costs of these items and services are particularly burdensome. hundreds of thousands of americans have endeavored valiantly to transform their physical handicaps from stumbling blocks to building blocks. they wish to use their crutches to move on.  just to lean on. this legislation will help them do just that. it is as practical in ecoic terms as it is humanitarian. it is. in effect. a practical bill to benefit those who have alternative than to be practical. finally. it should be ed that this measure is. in part similar to the amendment to the tax reform act of 1969. sponsored by the distinguished senator from arizona of which i was a cosponsor. that amendment provided for a tax deduction of up to $600 to the disabled for transportation and was approved by the senate on december 4. 1969. unfortunately. the provision was lost in conference. by mr. javits (for himself. mr.
. then we will have a clearer sight at our problem. and we will realize that fundamentally and basically it is the productivity and the ingenuity of the american ecoy that need to be bucked up. and especially the morale of the american worker and the american technician
. the administration proposed in its fiscal 1974 budget submission that the program administered by oeobe conducted in the future by the office of miity enterprise in the department of commerce with a new miity enterprise focus and a bill to accomplish those purposes. s. 1941. the "miity -business assistance act of 1973" has been iritroduced by senator tower. it will be considered first by the committee on banking. housing and urban affairs. and if reported by that committee. then by the committee on labor and public welfare. of which i am the ranking miity member. * with these possible changes in mind. in march of this year. then acting director of oeo howard phillips established an "ecoic development task force" to examine the program and to make recommendations as to how the program could be used to promote the ecoic development of residents of lower income urban and rural areas. the task force has  completed its work and their report has been provided to me by mr. phillips. it. contains a number of very serious recommendations which if implemented. would tend to give a greater miity enterprise focus to the activities of community ecoic development corporations. place greater emphasis on eventual selfsufficiency. and effect other organizational and programatic reforms. i have serious reservations about many of the recommendations in the appended report. as do those of us who regard the current efforts under the present charter contained in the ecoic opportunity act as successful and worthy of expansion. nevertheless. i consider it very important that the members of the senate and others interested in the community ecoic development effort be apprised of the task forces work and have a full opportunity to assess its recommendations in considering the future of the program generally. accordingly. i ask unanimous consent that a copy of the letter dated june 11. 1973. from mr. phillips to me together with the task force report be printed in the record.
i thank my colleague. i shall  take more than 5 minutes. first. to respond to my chairman and friend. the senator from arkansas (mr. f1lright). new york does  have the largest per capita income by any means in the country among the 50 states. but it does have the privilege of paying onefifth of the nations taxes. one of our big complaints in new york is that we get back only $1 for every $3 it paysin taxes. so. voting these matters is lo bed of roses for me as a senator from new york. the tax money comes proportionately very strongly from my state. as i remember arkansas proportion. it gets back considerably more than it pays in federal taxes. indeed. it is one of the outstanding states. with such two excellent senators as mr. fulbright and
the point made by the senator from washington relates to the source of the payment. what he meant is that the government per se is  taxed. it is  taxpayers money as we mally understand it. it is taxpayers money which pays welfarestate and federal. on the other hand. unemployment compensation is paid by a tax on specific employers. based on the number of employees they pay.
. at this time i wish to e the leadership taken in respect to these matters by senator cranston. the author of this bill and by senator beall. the ranking miity member of the subcommittee on human resources as well as the efforts of the action agency itself. which i believe has been very diligent in carrying out its charter under the reorganization plan. which this authority would replace. i ask unanimous consent that a copy of the letter from director shultz. dated may 20. 1971. be printed at this point in the record. as well as a chart prepared by my office comparing the authorizations under this bill with appropriations requests and allowances for each of the fiscal years 197274.
and. while i have  toted it up. i have little doubt that the inhabitants of the nine states. between them. pay at least half of the income taxes in the united states. i am aware that we can get parochial about this matter. new york is the seat of the stock exchange. california is the seat of many industries. and so forth. we are all interconnected. that is why we should do our utmost to understand the other fellows problems. and we should  try to act any other way. every once in awhile on an issue a senator will get up and say. "you cant win. because nine states are involved." suppose we say that about every issue on the calendar. suppose that we say. "you are only one man. you can win. forget it." we should  operate in that way. all we are trying to do is to have our states receive what they should receive. should that be the only criteria. how many states will get the benefit and how many will . and that therefore. that we should vote it down.
yes. it is the same rate of increase. but let us remember that if we take the $1.60 and lay it side by side with the cost of living increase. the minimum wage should be. if my memory serves me correctly. exactly $2.14. so the longer we wait.  only are we behind the times. but the rougher it gets on the people who are drawing the minimum wage. and it gets more and more difficult to bridge the gap.
i should like to join in that assurance. i would like the record however. to show that there is concern by the bar associations about this matter professionally in perhaps assuring at a fuzzy line which may put people in doubt with respect to hiring a lawyer or getting legal services under the committee bill. there is some difference between this and the fee schedule in headstart. in headstart. we wanted to get a mix of children. rather than tax people according to their capacity to pay. and hence give them a greater interest in cooperation. but there is egh merit to the senators idea. i do  wish in any way to prejudice this matter by anything that i have said. however. just in fairness to the bar association. i have made the statement i made. i will join in an effort to see if there is anything to it.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the administrations declaration of policy on wage and price controls. as stated by dr. john t. dunlop. director of the cost of living council. before the joint ecoic committee. on february 19. 1974. i present it for the information of senators.
. at a time when inflation rates in this country are higher than at any period since the first world war. the house and senate banking committees have decided to drop controlscurrent or standbyover wages and prices. i believe that the abrogation of such governmental authority at this time could prove disasterous to the nation if residual power is retained. there is little doubt that labor has been held back much more than business under the present administration controls program. this is undoubtedly why organized labor has joined with business in taking a position against an extension of wage and price controls or standby controls. says barry bosworth of the brookings institution: the industrial worker has. indeed. lost ground. and there is simply way to get it back out of the hide of business but labor will try. he then predicts that even after the ecoy adjusts to the current supplyshortagegenerated inflation. which most ecoists agree will work its way through the ecoy by the end of the summer. that large wage increases will also ratchet their way through the ecoy and together promulgate a surge of inflation which just can be tolerated. we k that food and fuel are still important factors in the giant monthly increases in the consumer price index. in february the consumer price index rose 1.3 percent. with the food component leading all other sectors in rising prices. food and housing are the two largest monthly outlays of any american family. even if pressure on food raw commodities eases. as is expected. in the next several months. i believe that we must be concerned about what will happen to the direct costs of food. food processors and manufacturers have been held under more stringest controls than the ecoy as a whole under phase iv. as soon as the control program becomes defunct. i think we can expect those in the food industry to try to catch up for increased costs. such as transportation and energy. which they have been unable to pass on as yet to the consumer. the wholesale price index in march increased 1.2 percent. or at an annual rate of 15.6 percent at seasonally adjusted rates. while prices for farm products and processed foods and feeds were down from february. industrial commodities rose 2.9 percent in this month alone. foreshadowing major increases in retail products which have been projected to take place this fall. according to a recent wall street journal article: todays prices on the general run of goods in department and discount stores are a mere 5% to 7% higher than a year ago ... price controls have kept the lid on. with controls  off. however. retailstore buyers who are ordering their inventories for fall are having to pay much higher manufacturers prices. these higher prices will be passed on to the consumer. clothing prices especially were singled out as being likely to take off this fall. and this is especially onerous to the consumer who has postponed many clothing purchases as long as possible. aher problem with allowing controls simply to die is that the congress has given dr. dunlop. director of the cost of living council. authority to enforce the decontrol commitments he has obtained from any major industries over the past several months. these commitments are the product of hard work in bargaining between dr. dunlop and crucial industries which account for a significant portion of the price indices. if industry was held accountable to their decontrol commitments. increased supplies of important commodities would result. with an ultimate impact of moderating the prices of final products. however. if these commitments are allowed to go by the boards.  only will dr. dunlops efforts have been in vain. but the ecoy may suffer significantly. in this connection i should like to call to the attention of my colleagues an article from the wall street journal today. in which dr. dunlop expressed his fear of higher inflation if controls are lifted completely. before the cost of living council came into existence. we had institutional focus on the role of government in fighting inflation. this is similar to the fact that there was government body which was constantly dealing with the problems of the environment prior to the establishment of the environmental protection agency. i believe that it is essential. at a time when our nations most prominant ecoists are bluntly stating that the inflation we have been experiencing in the united states over the past several years is a new and unique phee which to date has real solution. that we  cut off any of our options with which to deal with this problem that afflicts every american family. i commend senator muskie for introducing legislation today which would provide for continued monitoring by the executive branch of our inflationary problems. i am pleased to be a cosponsor of this legislation. i should also like to commend senators stevenson and johnston for their efforts in the senate banking committee to obtain standby control legislation and am pleased that they have also cosponsored senator muskies legislation. i ask unanimous consent an article from the wall street journal be printed in the record.
. i think it is a very serious pointthat in a number of stateseight states. to be exact. there is an unbelievable windfall in the mcclellan formula in the sense that each of those states benefits by receiving far in excess of 150 percent over the allocation received before. and the formula is worked out so that it gets very lopsided on that score. for example one state. the state of florida. will get in fiscal year 1975 213 percent of its fiscal 1974 allocation. that is certainly an objective that the senate ought to think about very seriously. and which will undoubtedly be very troublesome. $34 million is involved in the excess over 150 percent of the ceiling. and we have never fixed 150 percent here. the highest we have gone is 120 percent. as to this particular matter. the easy comparison is new york. however. over the weekend there developed. as published in the washington starnews. a comparison with washington. d.c.. which is very significant in showing the impact of the denial which was represented by the wiping out of part c as accomplished by the mcclellan amendment. washington is an urban community. indeed. the senator from massachusetts . an eloquent spokesman on these general issues. was born and bred here. it does  have representation in this body. but it has a great concentration of poor people. it has suffered a deficit under the mcclellan formula of about $1.25 million. it would get. because of the concentration of poor in this community. about $1.1 million under the part c formula. a  insignificant benefit. it is very interesting that the wealthy counties around washington. like montgomery county. md.. and fairfax county. va.. gain appreciably under the mcclellan amendment. they may  need it. but they gain. and the district of columbia. which is hungry and dry for education for the poor. loses. i might point out that a similar thing happens elsewhere in the following: cook county. chicago. ill.. lake county. ind.. polk county. iowa. jefferson county. ky.. hennepin county. minn.. which contains its big cities. interestingly egh sunflower county. miss.. pemiscot county. mo.. robeson county. n.c.. cleveland. ohio. philadelphia. pa.. pennington county. s. dak.. hampton city. va.. raleigh county. w. va.. and so on. this part c amendment will help somewhat to make up for these very serious deprivations. the ceiling affects two of the largest states. new york and california. under this amendment. new york would get 40 percent less part c funds than it would get under the committee bill. i do  think anybody who wants to bear down on new york could do any worse. so far as we are concerned. etheless. we feel that a very important principle is at stake and that we ought to proceed in this way. that is the reason why i cosponsored the amendment. the last point i should like to make is this: the national advisory council of the education of disadvantaged children speaks directly to this justification for special funds to deal with concentration in these urban and rural areas. these are its words. and i think they are very important. they were uttered when this provision was first enacted. the success with these children (title i) in sumthat is. the children in this amendmentrequires a concentration of services on a limited number of children. the report from the committee on labor and public welfare in the 91st congress. when we first enacted this particular part c approach. said: in urban areas where large numbers of lowincome families are concentrated in small neighborhoods and in rural areas where the lack of local resources have prevented schools from modernizing. educational deprivation is such a serious problem that a greater amount of money is needed to make opportunities available for these children to reach minimum achievement levels. it went on to e thatin the largest 15 cities in the nation the dropout rate varies from 46% to 21%. however. within those cities the dropout rate in schools serving large numbers of children from low income families is as high as 70%. in 1969. the senate was convinced that this was so. there was "battle of the charts." there was an ackledgement that this modest aspect of title iabout 4 percent of the appropriationwas needed. the situation has  changed today. part c is still needed. perhaps it should be less modest than we ask. maybe it should  be a separate authorization but should "come off the top" as is  in the law. but that is  the question before uswe are only seeking here to keep part c from being omitted from the bill. i might add that we are seeking it through this amendment.  some substitute supported by the foes of part c. who would smother it with sudden solicitude. part c is one henhouse which needs rescuing by the foxes. i ask unanimous consent that the portions dealing with part c from senate report 91634 be printed at this point in the record.
. in addition. there are renewals of the up to 60day coolingoff period. it is just one period. i believe that in fairness. the senate ought to vote on this. it is the classic alternative suggested by the chairman of the federal reserve board who has testified to it at great length. it has been widely discussed in the country. whatever may be the reasons for tabling the muskiestevenson measure. it was a substitute and had a good many things to it more than the simple opportunity for a coolingoff period to give the monitoring agency some little amount of muscle. it had in it. for example. subpena power. the authority to evaluate the reasonableness of wage and price increases. it had more money for the agency. it had two coolingoff periods of 45 days each. et cetera. this is simply one thing which is to give the monitoring agency some small element of authority which will give its deliberations and its public hearings some greater weight than they would have with authority whatever except to hear. i hope very much that in order to get the matter disposed of and to give the senate at least the opportunity to express its will that the managers of the bill might let us go to a vote on the merits. i have way to control them and i tell them  that i am  going to protract the debate. it would be meaningless. but i do hope for that simply in deference to the position and arguments which have been made on this side of the issue and because-
. but the hard decisions on specifying and implementing controls should be taken by congress. obviously congress can administer such a system. which must be done by the executive branch. however. if we should find it necessary to impose wage and price controls again. we must determine in advance the industries to be covered and the triggering to justify increases or rollbacks. renewed controls should cover only key industries with significant price setting power. the latest very large price increases annced by united states steel emphasize the need for a cooling off period and subpena power. we must also recognize that labor deserves a catchup in view of the 5 percent or better loss of purchasing power of the average worker in the past year. since inflation is  demand generated at this point. in fact. there is a growing slack in a number of industries. we can realistically expect wage and price controls to reduce prices that are beyond our control. for example foreign oil prices. but we must consider the usefulness of controls next year in tandem with efforts to reflate the ecoy. to ensure that the means of pulling us out of recession do  also lead to a renewed round of inflation. the diversity and complexity of our ecoic problems. the close relationship between energy use and production. the impact of higher fuel costs on agricultural productionthese indicate the urgent need on a national level for the more intelligent and orderly establishment of national priorities. it is clear that this country needs an office of national planning. but without compulsion. we need  and should  establish a national planning office to regiment our lives. but the cruel fact is that our lives can be regimented. even impoverished. by forces beyond our control if we do  attempt to deal with the totality of our ecoic problems in a systematic manner. i have proposed a mechanism that would attempt to carry out such planning functions. in s. 5. which would establish national goals and priorities. such an agency should include among its functions the setting of national priorities. making national forecasts and predicting with reasonable accuracy. the probable effects of any given combination of proposed policies. certain elements of national planning already take place in the office of management and budget and the budget committees of the house and senate. but their focus is  adequate to deal with the complex problems we face. a national planning agency should be a maj or priority in the new congress. finally. the whole countryworkers and managementis concerned about the rapid downward plunge of our ecoy. consumer confidence has fallen to its lowest level in decades and the housing and automobile industries are in severe recession. if the federal government continues its present tight fiscal policy the recession is likely to deepen. finally as a priority matter at the beginning of the 94th congress. we must consider the advisability of a tax cut on lower and moderate personal incomes of up to $12 billion. such a tax cut in tandem with an easing of monetary policy could pump back funds into the ecoy and provide the necessary stimulus to pull us out of the recession by midyear. this tax cut on personal income can be offset by revenue raising measures in the second half of the year. such as an energy tax. or an increase in the excise tax on liquor and tobacco. for example. a 50percent increase in the excise tax on liquor and tobacco. would raise almost $4 billion. or on higher personal incomes. we need to establish an office of national planning to deal with the totality of our ecoic problems
. i introduce a bill to provide the disabled an income tax deduction of up to $750 to cover transportation to and from work and to allow them the same additional $750 income tax deduction as is  given the blind. this measure is a successor to legislation i first introduced in february of 1950 when a member of the house of representatives. this proposal is a logical sequence to a series of enactments by the congress of legislation designed to help the handicapped become useful and productive citizens. the civilian vocational rehabilitation act of 1920 provided grants in aid for such services as job training and artificial limbs. subsequent major expansions in 1943. 1954. and the 1960s broadened the scope of the program to include. among other things. corrective surgery. equipping rehabilitation facilities and sheltered workshops. my proposal is  a logical next step. the nation is  expending more than $1 billion annually for rehabilitation programs. the ecoic incentive envisioned by this bill i am introducing today would further help these people to help themselves and aid them to achieve some personal independence from institutions. from overburdened families. and from local and state governments. it has long been evident that our handicapped citizens are capable of being productive workers. contributing to the nations ecoy instead of being dependent upon it. but their disabilities impose upon them additional expenses in pursuit of their livelihoods which are  fully deductible. such as special orthopedic devices. extra travel costs because they are unable to utilize routine methods of transportation. expensive additions to shop or home to facilitate their movements. special prosthetic devices. higher insurance costs. and the costs of hiring help to perform the simple tasks which the handicapped perform for themselves. in addition. rising costs of these items and services are particularly burdensome. hundreds of thousands of americans have endeavored valiantly to transform their physical handicaps from stumbling blocks to building blocks. they wish to use their crutches to move on.  just to lean on. this legislation will help them do just that. it is as practical in ecoic terms as it is humanitarian. it is. in effect. a practical bill to benefit those who have alternative than to be practical. finally. it should be ed that this measure is. in part similar to the amendment to the tax reform act of 1969. sponsored by the distinguished senator from arizona of which i was a cosponsor. that amendment provided for a tax deduction of up to $600 to the disabled for transportation and was approved by the senate on december 4. 1969. unfortunately. the provision was lost in conference. by mr. mondale:
. i am today introducing two bills. s. 766. the special unemployment assistance extension act of 1975. and s. 767. the emergency unemployment compensation extension act of 1975. designed to provide critically needed ecoic aid for the unemployed. these bills would provide an additional 13 weeks of unemployment assistance benefits for the more than 2 million unemployed americans who are expected completely to exhaust their unemployment compensation benefits under existing law this year. the fact that more than 1 million americans joined the rolls of the unemployed in january. bringing nationwide unemployment to 7.5 million workers. dramatizes the critical need for continuing federal programs of emergency assistance to the unemployed. until this nation begins its recovery from the current recession it is our responsibility to see to it that those americans who are bearing the brunt of the recessionunemployed workers and their familiesare provided with this basic measure of ecoic security. i am pleased to be joined on these bills by senators williams. ribicoff. hart. griffin. and nelson. and invite my other colleagues to join us. the bills that we are proposing here today will bolster our first line of defense in this war against unemploymentthe provision of unemployment compensation payments for those who have lost their jobs through fault of their own. and who are unable. because of the ecoic crisis. to find new employment. these bills build upon two emergency measures i sponsored last ember. which were enacted into law in december. the first measure provides for the payment of up to 26 weeks of unemployment assistance to unemployed workers who had  previously been employed at a job covered by the federalstate unemployment insurance system. the second provides that those workers who had been working in covered employment. but who had exhausted their entitlement under the permanent legislation to regular unemployment insurance and extended unemployment insurance benefits. are entitled to receive up to 13 additional weeks of unemployment assistancebringing their total compensable period up to 52 weeks. we hoped that these extensions would be sufficient to meet the needs of the unemployed in this recessionary period. unfortunately. however. we  k that they are inadequate to the unemployment crisis we are likely to face for many months to come.  only has total unemployment been spiraling. but equally distressing. is the indication that the average duration of periods of unemploymenta figure that has over the past year remained relatively stationaryhas  begun to rise sharply. estimates are that the average duration of period of unemployment may exceed 20 weeks by late spring.  only are more and more americans finding themselves out of a job. they are remaining unemployed for longer and longer periods of time. to address this problem. the bills we are introducing today would provide an additional period of unemployment compensation for all workers who had exhausted their full entitlements to unemployment compensation. this would provide unemployed workers in "covered employment" with up to 65 weeks of unemployment assistance. and those workers who were newly covered under the emergency jobs and unemployment assistance act of 1974 with up to 39 weeks of benefits. without the benefit of this legislation thousands and thousands of american workers will be exhausting their unemployment assistance benefits in the coming months. as many as 2 million by the end of the year. many of these workers will  be able to find jobs before they exhaust benefits. as they have been unable to find them over the past .year. at that point. increasingly large numbers of unemployed workers will be forced to apply for public assistance in order to provide the necessities of life for their families. we already k of the distressing accounts of the desperate ecoic status of overburdened state and local governments. to add to that burden . by forcing them to assume responsibility for income maintenance payments for the unemployed. would be intolerable. these bills represent the third and fourth pieces of legislation that i have introduced in this congress to provide emergency relief for the unemployed. the first such bill. s. 609. would expand and extend the public service jobs provisions of the emergency jobs and unemployment assistance act passed last session. to provide for the establishment of up to an aggregate of 1 million public service jobs under titles ii and vi of the comprehensive employment and training act. the second bill. s. 625. which i have cosponsored with the chairman of the labor and public welfare committee. senator williams. the chairman of the health subcommittee. senator kennedy. and the subcommittees ranking miity member. senator schweiker. would provide health insurance benefits for the unemployed. barring unexpected ecoic changes in the coming year. one in four working americans will lose their jobs and find themselves forced to apply for unemployment assistance. the plight of these workers and their families. the people upon whom the burden of the recession will invariably fall hardest. must be the  1 priority of this congress. i urge that all four of these measures receive the most prompt attention from the senate. by mr. sparkman:
 nixon signed into law a billpublic law 91621which extended to commissioned officers of the national oceanic and atmospheric administrationathe provisions of the act. leaving the phs commissioned corps as the only uniformed service  covered under this act. a provision of the soldiers and sailors civil act of 1940title 50. united states codewar. appendix. section 574provides. in effect. that for the purposes of state income tax liability a member of the military service shall  be regarded as having lost his residence or domicile in his "home" state solely because he is absent under military or naval orders.  shall he be regarded as having acquired a residence or domicile in any other state solely because of such absence. it also provides that a stateother than "home" statecan tax the income of a member of a military service merely because he resides and/or performs his duties there. the act further provides that a member of a military service may continue to register and license his solely owned automobile in his state of legal residence provided that the license. fee or excise required by that state has been duly paid. one of the basic elements of the public health service commissioned corps is mobility. commissioned officers spend many years of their careers at stations which are located in a state other than the home state. in many instances. this results in the officers having to pay a state income tax in two or more jurisdictions. to this extent the officers involved receive a reduction in pay as compared to their fellow officers in the other uniformed services who are only required to pay an income tax in the state of their domicile. and then only if such state imposes an income tax. in view of these circumstances. phs officers should be provided this long overdue benefit and that is what this bill achieves. it would  entail the expenditure of any federal funds and corrects an inequity in existing law. by mr. gravel (for himself and mr. jackson):
i wish to answer that question. i should  interrupt the senator otherwise. with regard to senator johnstons point made to senator magnuson about cutting this in half. keeping the same number on until next year. then if we want to. we can reappropriate. the difficulty is that we can have the argument that. well. they only have 290 and they can take 310. and take advantage of it. too. by that assertion. the reason they only have 290by the way. that is very close to 310. they are doing very well. they have done worse beforeis that it takes a while to build up. if we really want the right people in this program. we can have the threat of laying them off. community is going to lay them off in 10 minutes. they are going to gradually taper them off. therefore. the whole system will be dismantled if they are put in this kind of peril which the senator proposes to put them in. considering the rate of unemployment and. as senator magnuson has pointed out. the rather hardcore person to which this type of employment applies. i would consider that highly improvident. if that is the senators central argument against this. for meand as the senator ks. i have lived with this a long time and was the original author of itfor me. there seems to be one of of the very reasons why we should  do it. because we would disable these communities from doing exactly what we want them to do. which is to be careful and to apply this program to the people who really ought to have it and to build up slowly and  be faced with a proposition of suddenly turning them off during the fiscal year.
that is absolutely correct. i will read into the record the titles of these various forms of protection and also ask unanimous consent that an analysis of them may be printed in the record. the agency will have regulatory authority. it is strictly limited to a very serious degree in the .cases in which it can intervene. which must be broad interest to consumers. the limits on the involvement of the agency are very strict in that regard. there is a strong protection against delay and disruption of agency proceedings. there is a strong protection against the misuse of compulsory process. that is. the subpena. this agency has power to issue subpenas. it must seek the subpena from the host agency. as it were. which is where it is participating in the proceedings. there is a very sharp limitation on what was one of the big objections to this bill. that is on the power of the agency to issue interrogatories to business. the possibility is very real. and undoubtedly there will be. like interrogatories in a law case to be tested in court. there is strong protection against arbitrary. capricious or vindictive intervention by the agency in ongoing proceedings. there are strong restrictions against publicity so that frivolous consumer complaints may  cast reflections upon a given product or enterprise. there is even a limitation on the agencys right of access to information held by other federal agencies. and protection against their access to income tax records and to the disclosure of confidential information relating to business practices or trade secrets. there are protections against disclosure to the public of any false or misleading information regarding a business. and even surprise disclosures likely to injure. because there is  egh time to catch up with the allegation. the reputation or good will of the business. those are generic. broad headings in which. in specific detail. we have dealt with in this bill.
. at this time of ecoic recession and gloomy forecasts. every effort must be made  only to improve the present conditions but also for us to inform each other on successful efforts at ecoic development in the country. thus. i wish to bring to the attention of my colleagues the situation in my state of new york. in chautauqua county and the city of jamestown. for some years. that area of new york had been in a troubled condition ecoically. with persistently high unemployment rates and a declining industrial base. it typified the problems of many such areas in the industrialized theast which were losing out to competition in other parts of the country. in jamestown in particular. the reputation for troublesome labor relations made the location of new industry there especially difficult. symptomatic of the conditions there was that one of the largest industrial plants in the theast. the art metal factory. lay vacant for many years. that situation has dramatically changed. the unemployment rate in the jamestown area has been reduced from an average of around 10 percent approximately 3 years ago. to an average unemployment rate of approximately 5 percent in recent months. that is. from significantly higher than the national average to significantly lower. for the first time in 20 years there has been a consistent increase in the number of persons employed in manufacturing. productivity has increased in virtually every industry participating directly in the jamestown effort. and the labor climate. as illustrated by the number of peacefully negotiated labor contracts and the amount of time lost to strikes. has improved dramatically. last year jamestown was designated an allamerican city. a title it richly deserves. i have had the ho to be closely associated with the jamestown effort. and can assure my colleagues that while these changes have been dramatic. they have  come without bad work. three years ago. the mayor of jamestown. stanley lundine. caused to be formed the labormanagement committee of the jamestown area. with my own and other cooperation. to assess the areas problems and to provide constructive solutions in the context of fruitful labormanagement dialog. this committee has been the spearhead for ecoic improvement in the area as its latest achievement. the county and the city together have  been designated as a pilot demonstration project for ecoic development by gover. former representative. hugh carey. the important thing about the jamestown experience is that it is exportable. formed the labormanagement committee of the jamestown area. with my own and other cooperation. to assess the areas that experiencewhich includes a coordinated effort under the labormanagement committee of skill upgrading. quality of work improvement. leadership training. and a concerted attempt to improve labormanagement relationshas gained press attention and has also begun to be implemented in at least one other community. buffalo. n.y. my own personal view is that at a time when farm productivity has been declining for 2 years in a row. such an effort as is taking place in my state can make a major contribution toward reversing this very unhealthy trend. i ask unanimous consent to a.ave printed in the record a copy of the executive order from the gover making this designation. and some newspaper articles describing the project. i also ask unanimous consent to print in the record an abbreviated 3year report of the jamestown area labormanagement committee. i can recommend strongly egh to my colleagues that they study carefully the jamestown labormanagement committee experience as a model for constructive ecoic development and labormanagement cooperation in their own constituency.
. i call to our colleagues attention two interesting articles that appeared in the new york times on sunday. july 27. 1975. while both articles are directed to the problem of unemployment. they diverge in their approach. "they work as volunteersand get paid for it" by shawn g. kennedy. shows what can be done to help youth find valuable employment during the summer months. i have long been a staunch supporter of our program for providing summer jobs for ecoically disadvantaged youths. the efforts of private companies in new york complement our federal program and should be ed and continued. pfizer. inc.. morgan guaranty trust co.. et al.. are to be applauded for their concern and their help in providing jobs for the summer and their example is one that should be followed by all businesses in the private sector. it is an investment in our future that will reap many rewards. the national alliance of businessmen. again in this year of ecoic recession. again has led in this worthwhile endeavor to secure summer employment throughout the country. i am especially pleased that profit organizations in new york city. such as jobs for youth have been successful in coordinating a summer program there. the second article by emma rothschild. is of a more sobering nature. the problem of structural unemployment in our ecoy is one which merits our attention. the shift in living styles and the energy crisis will result in severe relocations in industrial output. even with an upswing in the ecoy. the auto industry will  be the same as it was. and many of those unemployed will  regain their jobs. thus. the problem that the new england states faced when its textile industry relocated.  may befall the auto industry. this is a problem that will be of great concern to the united states in the coming years and one which i have begun to focus my attention and i hope my colleagues will do likewise. these problems of unemployment are far from temporary. and we must look to the long range restructuring that may occur. a program must be envisioned and developed long before the emergency presents itself. i ask unanimous consent that the two articles be printed in the record. . there being objection. the articles were ordered to be printed in the record. as follows:
while it is being looked at. may i explain. i raised the question whether. if we are in a jam about unemployment compensation at the year end. a matter which has been voted on here many times and with great support on the part of the senate. but i could propose such an amendment. senator long properly said that he does  want to complicate the tax bill with anything except by unanimous consent. i can accept unanimous consent. it might be 98 to 2. so. offering this other bill as a vehicle-
. today i am cosponsoring with senators kennedy. williams. bayh. randolph. and cranston. an amendment to the first concurrent budget resolution for fiscal year 1977. to provide budget authority at a level commensurate with the needs of our country. in areas which directly relate to the needs of people the budget committee has  reponded adequately to the urgent problems that still require our attention and which we must answer affirmatively. we have been receiving good news on the ecoic front. with ecoic indicators showing the recession has bottomed out and we are on the road to recovery. the unemployment rate similarly reflects this turnabout. the latest unemployment figure of 7.5 percent is down considerably from the high of 8.9 percent last may. and has caused many ecoists to revise previous estimates and projections for the coming year. the fact that total employment increased by 375.000 last month. to an alltime high of 86.7 million is further evidence that the recession has ebbed. on the other hand. it can be assumed that all problems have disappeared. even with the most optimistic estimates. the unemployment rate will remain around 7 percent throughout 1977. and above 6 percent for the rest of the decade. it is for this reason that the budget resolution must reflect our concern for the millions of people who have  and can find work. there are still 7 million people who are unemployed. and with the improving ecoy by the end of fiscai year 1977 there still will be 6 million unemployed. the obligation of our country to provide the jobs and the climate for work continues. and we must provide the means to do the job. as reported by the committee. the resolution would provide for the continuation of the present public service employment program through 1977. but april 12. 1976 copi only as it reflects the abating unemployment rate. when this is translated into numerical terms. the present level of 320.000 jobs will be reduced to aproximately 301.000 jobs to correspond to the dropping unemployment rate. this is an unacceptable course for the senate to take. as it iges the unemployed millions who will have exhausted their unemployment compensation benefits during the coming year. this amendment. by increasing by $2.2 billion the outlays for public service jobs will enable the present program to double and thereby provide 600.000 jobs. to provide necessary and essential services to local governments that would  otherwise be performed. this amendment would provide jobs that would be targeted on those segments of the population that are most in need of relief from the burden of unemployment. the committee on labor and public welfare has under consideration targetting for the long term unemployedthose unemployed whose attachment to the labor market has been strained or broken. the committees attention is focused on those who have worked. but who have lost their jobs because of the recession. the alternative they face is the welfare rolls. a prospect that these "workers" find repugnant and disheartening. it is for these exhaustees of unemployment insurance that we must provide more jobs. the goal of this program is to spread the ecoic benefits of the 300.000 new jobs over the greatest number. and the neediest. of persons dependent on outofwork wage earners. and to restore the habit of work by substituting jobs at very modest wages for income maintenance checks. these jobs would be limited to 12 months per person. at least half of the participants would work in projectsoff the government payrollswith profit agencies and organizations. including schools. the program would trigger "off" when national unemployment dropped below 5 percent for 3 consecutive months. and funds would be authorized to be appropriated only for fiscal year 1977. the cost of providing these jobs will be reduced in the budget by savings in unemployment compensation and welfare payments. the benefit of providing a job for useful and productive services to the community. weighed against the payment of unemployment insurance or a welfare check. is clear. in considering this increase to the deficit. the offset to other functions in the reduction of outlays. plus the stimulus to the ecoy and its ripple effect in the private sector reduce the cost of providing a public service job. it would be unconscionable to abandon the battle  that a few victories over the recession have been won. this amendment recognizes that the government must continue to provide temporary jobs for 1 year duration. until the ecoy can reabsorb those workers traditionally in the work force. aher area that must be addressed is our commitment to the poor of this country. by increasing the budget authority to the community services administration $100 million. this amendment would reaffirm the senates commitment to the ecoically disadvantaged. this increase is necessary to prevent a near onethird reduction from last years funding. under the present resolution. the effect of the recession has been felt most dramatically by the poor. with fiscal cutbacks and reduction in services. those who have the least political clout are too often the poor and miity groups. we should  be cutting back by turning our backs on those who can afford cuts the least. the community services administration. the successor to the office of ecoic opportunity. is the voice of the poor in our government. and must at least be able to continue its program at the current services level. $100 million may  seem a great sum relative to the budget itself. but it remains the lifeblood for the war on poverty. these programs are essential for our nation. and its citizens. and merit the support of the senate.
. the senate will soon consider section 804 of title viii of the tax reform act of 1976 which would give expanded and unprecedented permanent inducement to the formation of a particular plan for employee stock ownership qualified under section 301 (d) of the tax reduction act of 1975. under present law. companies establishing these unique esops receive a tax credit of 1 percent of their qualified investment in plant and equipment. under the proposed bill. the additional tax credit would be doubled. to 2 percent. and it would become a permanent part of the tax law. preliminary estimates of the finance a committee are that this proposal will cause a revenue loss of $235 million in fiscal year 1977. further. i understand that the loss attributable to the "grace period"-retroactivity provision was  included in the preliminary estimate. inclusion of that provision adds aher $150 million. making a conservative estimate of the revenue loss equal to $385 million for fiscal year 1977. the revenue loss is expected to approach $1 billion by 1981. these estimates are modest in light of projections that the establishment of an esop by one of our major capital intensive public utilities alone could cost the u.s. treasury $340 million by the end of 1977. according to the companys own estimates. it is  unreasonable. therefore. to expect that the tax revenue loss associated with this provision might cost the u.s. treasury $500 million or more in fiscal year 1977. when the senate turns to consideration of section 804 of title viii. i intend to offer an amendment on behalf of myself and senators humphrey. percy. kennedy. proxmire. and muskie. to maintain the present tax credit policy for esops to wit: a tax credit of only an additional 1 percent which would be continued through calendar year 1977. in addition. our amendment would delete a new provision which would qualify corporations for the additional tax credit retroactive to 1975. our amendment could cut the revenue loss associated with this title by $300-$400 million for 1977 alone. it should be emphasized that it will be neither the intent  the effect of this amendment to reduce or modify in any way the present special tax incentives for adoption of esops. the present 1 percent extra investment tax credit for companies adopting esops would be maintained. as would the provision which enables employers. in effect. to deduct the principal component plan repayments as well as interest by making contributions to leveraged esops. our purpose is  to impede the development of employee stock ownership or to discourage companies from adopting esops. on the contrary. i am firmly committed to the goal of broadening employee stock ownership. i have endorsed enthusiastically the conclusion of the joint ecoic committee that expanded stock ownership should be equally with full employment and price stability as our national ecoic goals. furthermore. i joined with senator humphrey in authoring the employee stock ownership fund act of 1976 to make employee stock ownership part and parcel of the collective bargaining process. nevertheless. i offer this amendment because section 804 provides unnecessary and inappropriate further inducement only to the esop form of employee stock ownership. such inducement is contrary to recommendations contained in the june 14. 1976. staff study prepared for the joint ecoic committee entitled "broadening the ownership of new capital: esops and other alternatives." the study concluded: further incentives for the establishment of esops are  needed at this time. since the employer already receives substantial tax advantages under the internal revenue code. according to the study. further legislative inducement is also inappropriate. because it would discriminate further against alternative methods for broadening stock ownership. and evidence is beginning to come in that the esop device may  be the best way in many cases to broaden employee stock ownership. indeed. the recently published joint ecoic committee staff study has raised many questions about the soundness the universal approach to employee stock ownership of esop. specifically. the characteristics of leveraging and diversification of holdings in many uses magnifies the risk to which the employee participant is exposed. and the jec study also indicates that the benefits of the socalled second income hypothesis. particularly as they accrue to lowersalaried workers. have been exaggerated by esop proponents. peter drucker in his recent. much discussed book commenting on the kelsoesop points out: ... it would make the workers "owners" but. for half or more of them. in bankrupt companies or declining industries. thus depriving them of the pension they need. drucker goes on to conclude that the tax reduction act of 1975. to the extent that it provides a substantial tax credit inducement to companies to switch from diversified pension plans to esops. "is essentially an incentive to expropriate workers pension funds so as to finance weak companies that otherwise could  get capital." this essential aspect of possible insecurity of the employees financial interest in the leveraged. diversified esop is also contained in the june 7. 1976. compendium of papers on the tax reform act assembled by joseph pechman of the brookings institution and stanley surrey of harvard. the conclusion is unmistakable: an esop is clearly inconsistent with the aims expressed through federal regulation of private retirement programs. the risk to an employees future security if his retirement fund is invested entirely in his employer is unacceptable. financial failure of the employer becomes a doubleedged swordthe job and retirement income are lost in one swoop. in a forthcoming article in the tax law review. d. bret carlson. of the law firm of debevoise. plimpton. lyons & gates. writes that: esops disadvantages are obvious from the employees point of view: (1) an esop inevitably results in a high concentration of trust assets in the stock of a single corporation. it is doubtful that an independent investment manager would recommend such a concentration in the shares of one enterprise. (2) the employers stock may  be a desirable investment for an employees trust. especially if  balanced by other holdings. other securities or investments may well hold more promise for income or increase. perhaps with less risk of loss. (3) the flexibility of a managed investment portfolio is lacking in an esop. the trustee must stay with his single investment through bad times and gocd. (4) the financial fate of an esop trust is doubly tied to the success of the employer and the individual employees fate depends even more on that success. if the employers business flags. the value of the trust fund is likely to decline. since it is heavily invested in the employers stock. moreover. the same poor business performance that causes the employers stock -to decline may threaten the continuation of employer contributions to the trust (withstanding the employers commitment to the lender to maintain them) and it may even affect the job security of individual employees. they truly have all their eggs ie basket. of course. we realize that in certain limited instances the esop model can be useful. particularly for closely held companies that have real growth possibilities. this is why our amendment would  alter the substantial inducements for esops  offered by our tax laws. however. as the jec study shows. "esops are  universally beneficial." furthermore. by favoring esops alone. the tax reform act would in effect favor capital intensive as opposed to labor intensive businesses. and within these businesses discriminate against lower and middle income workers via allocation formulas which favor the highly paid. in addition. the act would promote a capital formation device which in many cases is questionable and less efficient because of excessive reliance on debt. many ecoists maintain that the esop tax credit provides little incentive to capital formation because. since companies must issue new stock equal to the credit. the proceeds of the credit do  raise net income. as the 10 percent general investment credit does. the jec staff study concluded that there were alternative arrangements that could be developed to expand stock ownership. these alternative methods will be the subject of more extensive study by the joint ecoic committee and the senate committee on labor and public welfare during the next year. the labor. tax. and ecoic committees of both houses of congress should examine the question of the employees financial security and the issue of the esops effect on capital formation before congress acts to make permanent the tax incentives for one model. the jec committee staff study findings. as well as the need to accumulate further information about the alternative methods to broaden stock ownership suggest that the inducements for the aooption of esops be continued in their present form pending further analysis and developments in employee stock ownership. i ask unanimous consent that the amendment be printed in the record.
that is correct. as described in the section of the erisa conference report under the heading "basic fiduciary rules." "prudent man standard." the service has developed general rules under the "exclusive benefit" requirement that governthe investment of plan assets. the service will examine a number of factors on a casebycase basis. generally. as stated in the report. . . to the extent that a fiduciary meets the prudent man rule of the labor provisions. he will be deemed to meet these aspects of the exclusive benefit requirements under the internal revenue code.
second. if i should determine to make an amendment to the budget resolution respecting unemployment compensation. that it shall be deemed in order. i do  k what the details of the r~solution are. and i do  want to get trapped on germaneness.
. i am pleased to join with senator bellmon. senator domenici. senator mcclure and others in introducing the youth employment act of 1977. since -the joint ecoic committee held its hearings on the problem of youth unemployment in september 1976. i have been convinced of the need to act swiftly in .the 95th congress to add a new youth title to the comprehensive employment and training act. indeed. my close friend and longtime colleague. senator humphrey. and i coauthored the comprehensive youth employment act of 1977. which we introduced 2 weeks ago. the bill we introduce today is similar in many respects to the humphreyjavits bill. s. 170. except that it gives somewhat wider latitude to ceta prime sponsors to provide a range of comprehensive manpower services to youths aged 14 through 24. as in s. 170. reliance is placed upon. the decentralized ceta delivery mehanism. which encourages local participation and accentuates local accountability. . withstanding the serious recession of 197476. which caused the national unemployment rate to exceed 8 per cent as recently as ember 1976. the ceta system has proved to be a most effective manpower program. we must bear -in mind. that when ceta was enacted in. december 1973. the national unemployment rate stood. at 4.6 per cent of the labor.force. who could foretell that unemployment would soon reah such immense proportions and. indeed. threaten to overwhelm- the delivery mechanism we had put in place so recently and in such relatively affluent times. . the young people of our .country particularly have suffered in recent years. although they represent only 25 percent of our labor force. they constitute half the total unemployed in the united states. as i pointed out two weeks ago. it is time we began to relieve some of the disproportionate burden of joblessness borne by young americans. while prime sponsors have tried to address the problem of severe youth unemployment. current appropriations levels and an unprecedented number of adult jobseekers have diluted somewhat these ameliorative efforts. consequently. the overall youth unemployment rate remains near 19 percent. three times greater than the rate of those over 20 years of age. even this egregious figure fails to reflect the problem of unemployment among white youths. the officially recorded figure for black teenagers is 35 per:ent. but reliable estimates place the figure- near 60 percent in metropolitan poverty areas. even the latter estimate fails to include discouraged workers and the underemployed. the problem of youth unemployment has. indeed. reached epidemic proportions in our country. the bill we introduce today continues the purposes of ceta in serving "the ecoically disadvantaged. the unemployed and the underemployed." prime sponsors are required. as in title i. to provide assurances that manpower services will be provided to those "most in need" of them. in addition. greater targetability is assured by our allocation formula. similar to that in part a of the humphreyjavits bill. which allocates half of the formuladetermined amount on the basis of the number of unemployed youths in a state. and half on the basis of the number of youths living in lowincome families in the state. of the $2.8 billion authorization included in the bill. over $2.5 billion would be allocated according to the criteria outlined above. i am convinced this represents a vast improvement over the allocation formula  incorporated in title i of ceta. and greatly increases our ability to target manpower service to where the need is greatest: the disadvantaged youth of our country. the bill we introduce today removes the summer youth program from title iii and places its authorization within the approved range of manpower services. the appropriation level is adjusted upward by $700 million to preserve the funding level for 800.000 youths. i might emohasize that the title iii language is replicated in this bill. so that where prime sponsors operate summer jobs programs for youths. all participants must be disadvantaged. prime sponsors tell us that inclusion of the summer program in a new youth title would enable them to plan their summer programs far in advance. and thus avoid the hazards of last minute appropriations. when one can plan safely on having sufficient funds. in other important respects. this bill incorporates existing ceta language. for example. the fair labor standards act would continue to apply to youths compensated by employers in onthejob training programs. likewise. payments to forprofit employers to expand job january 28. -1977 opportunities for youths would. continue. the big government approach think of reach $70 billio increased tax deto be limited so as  to exceed the dif- themselves as inative and forward- mands. ference between the costs of recruiting. looking. when in fact they are looking the unavoidable truth is that deficits training. and providing supportive serv- backward for their answers. must be financed. the government has ices for youths and those regularly of course there are lessons to be two choicesto borrow from the fedemployed. learned from history. and a lookat his- eral reserve or to finance by.borrowing i am aware that many youth employ- tory gives adequate evidence of the ex- from the private sector. when the govment bills have been introduced so far in tent to which our prosperity depends on ernment borrows from the federal rethis session. i have directed the miity the availability and use of private capital. serve. the supply of money increases relstaff of the manpower subcommittee of for example. just 100 years ago. it took a ative to the supply of goods. thus sooner the committee on labor and public wel- week to produce the same amount of orlater forcing prices to rise and the fare. on which i serve as ranking repub- wheat that today can be produced with value of dollars to fall. government lican. to study all these bills and report just a single hour of human labor. what agencies with their newly created dollars to me the elements of each. i believe we did it. the steel plow. tractor. harvester. are able to bid away goods and services shall add a new youth title to ceta this better seed. and cheap transportation. all from the private sector where the mayear. and i urge my colleagues to search of these in turn were made possible by jority of capital formation takes place. for and introduce as many alternative the use of investment capital. when the government borrows from approaches as possible. so we will have capital is the key word. capitalism- the private sector. new money is crethe benefit of the maximum crossfertili- the use of funds to build plants and to re- ated. the government sells bonds to the zation on new ideas. place equipmenthas been the most im private sector which in turn must reduce the bill i join in cosponsoring today portant factor in raising our standard of either private current consumption or incorporates several new ideas. espe- living and it can be the answer to a investment. because government excially the greater targeting on the dis- steady ecoic recovery and continued penditures consist heavily of transfer advantaged youthsof our country stable growth. payments which go for current consumpi hope our colleagues will examine this the proposed act consists of the fol- tion. the net effect in time is increased bill and lend their strong support to it. lowing provisions: demand for currently produced goods by mr. mcclure: first. it. provides a permanent reduc- rather than a demand for. goods pro-
 carter. i have long taken the position that unemployment compensation is a poor substitute for real jobs. and i have called for the creation of 1 million public service jobs under the comprehensive employment and training act. but the fact remains that our ability to create jobs in either the public or private sector is limited. even if funding were available to create 1 million jobs. and all of them were taken by unemployment compensation exhaustees. hundreds of thousands of longterm unemployed workers would still be left jobless and without any other means of supporting themselves and their families. when this program was last considered by congress. in june 1975. it was hoped that by  the recession would have sufficiently abated so as to permit the program to expire without undue hardship accruing to large numbers of unemployed workers. unfortunately. the ecoic recovery has been slower than any of us had hoped. unemployment today remains at the intolerably high level of 7.3 percent. if the fsb program is permitted to expire. 600.000 workers will immediately be cut off from benefits. more than 1 million workers. who would otherwise collect fsb during the next 12 months will be denied such essential benefits. in new york. more than 100.000 longterm unemployed workers will be cut off.
 says that is donebut would deal also with the question of investment confidence. as well as the demand for big ticket items. a permanent income tax cut would improve the outlook for consumer demand. and would be an incentive for business firms to expand productive capacity.
. the income tax deadline has come and gone. and yet the flood of letters from my constituents complaining about the rate of income tax is still at record levels. from both the macro and the micro point of view. taxes are high. the ratio of personal income taxes to gnp is expected to rise sharply during fiscal year 1978: this ratio will climb from a recent average of 8.3 percent to a full 11 percenta 32percent growth rateby 1982 if our tax laws stay the same. from the individual point of view. high marginal tax rates of 40 percent or more are paid by millions of middleclass taxpayers whose only reason for having to pay such high rates is that they are earning a living wage. in fact. according to statistics from the advisory commission on intergovernmental relations. families with average incomes have had greater percentage hikes in both their federal personal income taxes and their total tax burden than families with twice the average u.s. income. this fact must work as a substantial disincentive for people to save. since interest rates on savings accounts scarcely keep up with the rate of inflation before taxes. in the higher income levels and higher tax bracketswhere millions of professionals find themselves in the 50percent bracket and higherthe high marginal tax brackets restrain investment and many neople have pulled out of the stock market and have opted instead for productive investment vehicles: land. art. precious stones. et cetera. in this context. i commend to my colleagues an article in the washington post. which appeared over the recess and illustrates the tax burden dramatically. it nts out that the total tax take for a family with an average income climbed 92.4 percent between 1953 and 1975 and  totals some 22.7 percent of its total income. although the chief culprits in this tax rise were the social security taxit climbed 436.4 percentand the statelocal personal income taxthe figure here is 533.3 percentthe fact is that personal income taxes also climbed by more than a quarter and still take the largest bite out of pretax income. the average family has been most hurt by tax hikes. according to the figures published in the post. families with twice the average income had their taxes rise 49.1 percent between 1953 and 1975. and families with four times the national average income saw their tax bills go up 46 percent. moreover. the point is clear: we are sending more and more of our incomes to the government. as inflation pushes us into higher tax brackets and as government strives to keep its books in balance. one policy recommendation clearly presents itself. we must seek a better solution in personal income taxes. this tax is the largest one directly affecting the consumer. reducing personal income taxes on a permanent basis should increase aftertax rates of return and thus encourage consumers to spend and save more. i ask unanimous consent that the article from the april washington post be printed in the record.
. are we still in debate on this bill. may i have an idea as to how long the majority leader wishes to run tonight. we are prepared  to take up the discussion of the amendment for a permanent personal income tax cut. as i have already explained to the majority leader. we have quite a considerable number of speakers. we can go right ahead with it. we will in the course of the discussion lay down the amendment. we will explain it. if the majority leader wishes to try to arrive at a unanimousconsent agreement for a vote we are certainly willing to lend ourselves to that. i am at his disposal.
i thoroughly agree with that. it is a very interesting point that one of the bright spots in the recovery is even the marginal recovery in home acquisition. we are  at the 2 million mark yet. which should be the very minimum for our country. we are at 1.850.000. but the fact that that has been seized upon as showing recovery really is happening indicates that it is critically important. my state has an emous population. as the senator kshis own state may reflect the same thingand many families have expressed it by saying that they see some light at the end of the tunnel. that government understands that we have to show that income tax rates can go down as well as up.
(reading) some program objectives were compromised due to the recession. ineligible particlpants cut into the program. this report contains many recommendations to the secretary of labor and the congress for improving the program. ok. we have done our best to improve it. we shall improve it more. but do  let us kk it out. especially in the absence of the very tax reductions and rebates which are supposed to do precisely what we are trying to do here today.
i say to the senator that he has put his finger on the exact point. which i am sure i did  make clear as artfully as he. which is that there is hing in this amendment which says that the new jobs have to be from expanded employment to people who would  otherwise be employed. what will an employer do with an unskilled job. will he take the person to whom he has to pay the minimum. even if it is for 6 months.  he will take the person to whom he pays the subminimum. he will rob peter to pay paul. and peter will be the older people. that is what the labor department found when it made the survey.
s veto (house 384 to 43. senate 67 to 15). since then we have had to continue showing our support for nursing education in each appropriation bill. because of administration failure to give nursing a high budget priority. i hope this may  be ended. this bill is a straight 2year extension of existing nurse training authorities with only one revision. financial distress grants (section 815) have been deleted and the $5 million authorized there added to the special projects grants (section 820). if capitation funds are made available to the schools. as the congress has provided for annually through the appropriations process. the schools of nursing have indicated that there is need for distress grants. also. because the special projects have been funded at their authorization limit for several years. the impetus for these project grants to generate new educational initiatives is being slowed. the additional $5 million will greatly assist these needed efforts. ten years ago i authored a major amendment to the nurse training act to provide funds for recruitment and retention of miity students in schools of nursing. that effort has demonstrated positive results. in fact.  one of the options for schools to be eligible for capitation is to increase enrollment of miity students. i trust that the progress stemming from those early grants and contracts is being shared with all nursing schools and with other groups so that opportunities for miity students can be maximized. during the human resources committees last hearings on nursing education. data on maldistribution of rns and the factors contributing to that maldistribution were requested. several studies are  in process which will provide data for the various states. in addition. the nursing profession is also funding a study on credentialing mechanisms and aher on the appropriate entry level preparation for professional nursing. hew recently sent the congress a long overdue initial progress report on the current nurse education program. and aher report is pending. once those activities and studies have been completed during the extension period. our committee will be in a much better position to develop permanent reforms to meet future needs. senator kennedy. chairman of the subcommittee on health and scientific research of the human resources committee. has joined with me in cosponsoring this legislation and indicates rapid action by the subcommittee prior to the may 15 budget deadline. by mr. dole:
. i thank the senator for those kind words. a number of other names should be listed in this connection. among them that of the senator from pennsylvania . who ranks next to me on the human resources committee and who worked with me on this matter. and the senator from georgia . who has joined with me and representative rangel of new york in sponsoring a bill for tax credits for initiatives of this kind. i ask unanimous consent that our "dear colleague" letter dated march 23. 1978. be printed in the record. as a part of my remarks.
 the description of what is taking place here is very analogous to the blind man and the elephant. the particular provision to which my colleague refers is but a part of a larger whole which is of great interest and of great importance to the united states in terms of federal income tax revenue. and to the business community of the united states. it has been pointed out. i think quite properly. that the concern about article 9(4) emanates from three states. the largest being california. if i can read the official position of the state of california to the senate we would put in sharp focus what i meant when i said we have here a presentation of the blind man and the elephant. the blind man who could touch but one infinitesimal part of the elephant and  understand its whole. we have a declaration. in telegram form. from the gover of california and one of its senators. which is found at page 399 of the record of the foreign relations committee hearings on the treaty. and which reads as follows:
. i am going to accept the amendment offered by the senator from washington . but i do wish to make one thing clear. first. senator magnuson has stated that he approves of the concept which went into the committees amendment. and his action represents the desire of the appropriations committees freedom of action. with which we can disagree. i believe it is important that the senate be fully apprised of the committees thinking when inserting section 194. the new concentration grants were designed to repair a very difficult problem in the title i program. oversight and testimony in the human resources committee demonstrated that the greatest single difficulty with title i was the fact that high concentrations of children in rural areas and children in urban areas were  receiving sufficient funds to make the title i program work effectively. the concentration factor is an attempt to compensate for the severe difficulties of title i children in areas where they are literally "concentrated" in large number. it is a proposal of relatively modest cost to compensate for the fact that title i remains several billion dollars below its full authorization. the human resources committee has experienced a mixture of success and disappointment in the results of spending decisions by the congress. some programs have done quite well while other meritorious programs are significantly underfunded. we recognize the difficulties facing any committee in dealing with spending decisions. and i appreciate greatly the tremendous workload and difficulties which the appropriations committee faces each year. they do a remarkable job. i point out that the administration has requested the concentration grants and the state incentive program and has requested in fiscal 1979 the very $400 million appropriation to fully fund the concentration grants which the bill contains. so we endeavored to insure that these moneys would be given high priority. i understand that senator magnuson. the chairman of the appropriations committee. as well as several senior members of the budget committee. are strongly inclined to favor the full $400 million spending in fiscal year 1979. and make appropriate allowances in the next supplemental appropriation and in the second concurrent budget *resolution. this achieves the desire of the human resources committee expressed in section 194 of s. 1753. that the new concentration grants would receive favorable treatment. we believe that section 194 does  force any appropriations. rather. it simply puts a priority on the concentration grants. this is  an appropriation forcing device. rather it is simply a statement of human resources committee views as to the principal importance of beginning the concentration grants program in 1979. based on the assurances of support from senator magnuson and others. i 27432 cc am comfortable in accepting his amendment to strike 194 from this bill.
