during my recent visit to israel on july 5 to 8. i found a new receptivity among israels leaders to peace initiatives. the withdrawal of substantial numbers of soviet military personnel from egypt. at president sadats request. may suggest the possibility of a break in the stalemate which has blocked for so long a negotiated peace settlement in the mideast. if so. i believe that israel would welcome the initiation of peace negotiations with president sadat. either through direct negotiations. or preliminarily through close proximity talks if necessary. prime minister meirs latest speech confirms this. the courage. determination. and boldness which israel has demonstrated over the past 5 years in refusing to be intimidated or bluffed by suggestions of joint sovietegyptian military action. will be matched in my judgment by an israeli willingness and desire to achieve a just and lasting peace through negotiations. while in israel. i had extensive conversations with israel top leaders. including: prime minister golda meir. deputy prime minister allon. foreign minister eban. finance minister sapir. commerce and industry minister bar lev. transport and communication minister shimon peres. mayor of jerusalem ted kolleck. director of the bank of israel moshe sanbar. as well as a number of other israeli officials and private citizens. in addition. i had an excellent conversation with the u.s. ambassador walworth barbour. and other members of his staff. my visit to israel took place at a moment of quiet and hiatus. relations between the united states and israel are probably at an alltime high. the strong sense of mutual understanding. appreciation and cooperation which pervade united statesisrael relations was unmarred by any disagreements over immediate tactical questions which often. and naturally. crop up even between friendly partners. this relaxed atmosphere made it possible to concentrate in my discussions on the future prospects for a peace settlement in the mideast. and the longer term aspects of the united statesisrael relations. with respect to peace prospects. i found the mood in israel to be one of patient hopefulness.  that israel has been assured of the supply of military equipment it needs for a deterrent defense capability. i found in israel relaxation from tension and increased flexibility about the modalities of achieving a peace settlement. in addition. i found a deep sense of appreciation and trust in israel for the united states. president nixons historic trips to peking and moscow were viewed with admiration and a sense of reassurance. israelis have a lively curiosity about the american political process. and. while israelis have an understandable feeling of appreciation and rapport for the nixon administration. israeli leaders quite properly maintain a position of strict impartiality and involvement respecting the u.s. electoral process. israel is a nation of great purpose. drive and dynamism. my visit came at a period of relaxed tensions and that relaxation reflected itself in the broader scope of issues which receive the attention of israels leaders and thinkers. at a moment when israel does  feel quite so imminently embattled. more thought is being given to broader questions relating to peace in the mideast and israels longer term relations with the united states and europe. as well as its relations with its immediate arab neighbors and the soviet union. i am confident that. if the latest developments in egypt augur a new desire to seek a peaceful settlement with israel. israel will  be found wanting in a spirit of willingness and reciprocity. while the united states is well positioned to play a constructive role of encouragement. meaningful peace can only result from interaction between israel and its arab neighbors.
