. i have denced separatism and separatists. both black and white. i believe in one nation. i believe in integration. and i am confident that most americans. black and white. share these beliefs. the hope for an end to racial division lies in our educational system. the opportunities we afford our young people determine the shape of our nations future. if we deny children the right to an equal chance in life. we deny our nation a chance for greatness. if we perpetuate separate societies. divided by igance and suspicion. we risk an unsteady and uncertain future. for each generation of segregation in our schools. we risk aher generation of division in our nation. we must  deny our young people the chance to bridge mutual misunderstandings with shared experiences and opportunities. this cleverly crafted measure strikes at the fundamental source of hope for our nation--our children. though i am confident its most pernicious provisions would be struck down by the supreme court of the united states. its enactment would seriously divide and confuse our nation. for two decades. the course has been sure but slow. and  we are asked to hastily and drastically alter it. why. because many americans have become confused by the rhetoric on busing. in some cases this confusion is deliberately contrived by those who speak of "busing to achieve racial balance" when such busing is  at issue. the issue is simple: shall we or shall we  permit necessary remedies to a constitutional violation. segregation of public schools by official act is unlawful. that is a fact. busing is an integral and pervasive component of our educational system. and. that too is a fact. the fact is that in many cases. busing is necessary to uphold the law. this legislation is  as some call it. an "antibusing" bill. its provisions. limiting options in school assignments. permitting resegregation without remedy. and stimulating relitigation of all desegregation cases. compel a more accurate description. this is an "antidesegregation" bill. this is an "antiintegration" bill. similarly. this discussion is being mislabeled. how can one consider this a filibuster in face of the facts. while its proponents claim this is one of the most important measures to be considered this congress. they prevented the careful consideration that a measure of such import deserves. an editorial in todays edition of the washington post shares this view. the editorial is headlined "the busing bill in the senate." the editorial reads:
