 johnson defined the objectives of this proposed legislation as being "to eliminate the paradox of poverty in the midst of plenty in this nation by opening to everyone the opportunity to live in decency and dignity." and we have. at last. hope of doing this. we are beginning to free ourselves from some of the inhibiting ideas which have clung like cobwebs to hamper our free development of new social patterns for this new and very different social era. in the past. we have assumed that "the poor we have always with us" and that the only way to make tne poor less poor was to take from the "haves" and give to the "haves." as walter lippmann has recently phrased it. "until recently it was always assumed that there was only so much pie and the social question was how to divide it. but in the last 30 years. a revolutionary idea has taken hold in the advanced countries of the world. the size of the pie to be divided can be increased by invention. organization. capital investment and fiscal policy. and then a whole society.  just one part of it. will grow richer." there has been a growing realization that this is the only road to a sound ecoy. this nation can afford to go on paying the evermounting costs of financial relief which does hing to break the cycle of dependency and restore families to lives of independence and selfrespect. about $6 billion is  expended annually in this country by federal. state. and local governments for public welfare. and over $1 billion by private agencies. this is a financial investment which must be protected and from which we must get a good return in terms of human wellbeing and dignity. for the end and aim of these efforts are to protect our human investment. we must use every cent of these billions of dollars so effectively that phase of child development or family life in any community is left without resources for help and guidance of whatever kind is needed. and what is our most urgent need in this connection. first of all. i would say enlightened citizens to work for and to see the need of meeting some of the most urgent problems growing out of our quickening social change. particularly as they affect children. and secondly. wellprepared specialists who can serve to put to work all that science is discovering about better ways to help people. as alumni interested in the universitys special functions. let us look just at the workers with professional training in a wide variety of health and welfare fields in new frontiers that are opening. these must be supplied by our professional schools and universities. funds for scholarships. educational leave. and educational grants for strengthening faculty and facilities to these schools are forthcoming from many federal sources. these funds also further stimulate voluntary giving to the private institutions of higher learning. for example. in moving around the country observing childrens bureau supported programs. i am always running into alumni of boston university as well as from other universities who are  in frontiers of service undreamed of even a few years ago. for example: 1. nurses who work in concert with a whole team of specialists in helping mentally retarded children and their parents. the discovery of simple methods of finding children in infancy who suffer from inborn errors of metabolism has led to a whole new treatment through diet of youngsters who otherwise would have been doomed to a life of severe mental retardation. a study sponsored by the childrens bureau through the maternal and child health program involving a simple blood test given within 3 days of birth. has screened over 400.000 babies in a sampling of hospitals. this study revealed an incidence two times as great as anticipated of this rare disease called phenylketonuria. followup treatment has saved these youngsters and at the same time has proved the efficacy of a method of detection that puts us on the threshold of kledge about many other devastating metabolic disorders. 2. similarly physicians who are  being trained in improved methods of open heart surgery. during the last few years as a lifesaving procedure have saved thousands of children. the crippled childrens program which serves children with congenital heart malformations treated only 2.207 in 1950. while new methods and new facilities had increased this number to 22.761. in the past year. according to reports from * * * many states. 3. again occupational and physical therapists are working in amputee centers for children and teaching them to use devices such as prosthetic hands only recently designed by clinicalengineering teams. these were fashioned for children as a result of a special study of earlier efforts to help veterans. opening a whole new world for these handicapped children starts in infancy when the baby learns to use a crude mitt to keep his balance as he creeps. all along the way to independent living many specialists trained in our schools are needed to bring handicapped children to a full life and to find their place in the world. 4. educators and psychological counselors are seeking new ways for reaching the child from culturally deprived families to take his place in school. for example: the childrens bureau with funds from the new child welfare research and demonstration grants program is supporting a study on educability and rehabilitation: "the future of the welfare class." these workers are learning the importance of communication between mother and child so that a child can deal with abstract concepts. the destructive impact on early childhood development is profound when the mother is unable to interact with her child to stimulate learning experiences. as new curriculum and materials are developed. we may be able to introduce a truly preventive learning program that will bring new benefits to these mothers and their children which will put to work new findings in the field of communications theory in our new day care programs. 5. lawyers working with doctors as in the new legalmedical institute at boston university are turning their attention to formulating laws to safeguard children especially those suffering from neglect and abuse. three years ago only one state required mandatory reporting of evidence of injury inflicted by parents on their children.  physicians in eight states are operating under new laws to report such findings. ten more states are considering new legislation. reporting is  eghprotective services must follow. so once again a whole team of service workers are centering upon this growing problem of child abuse. 6. and finally. social workers who must man new comprehensive approaches to juvenile delinquency. to antipoverty programs. to social planning are in dangerously short supply. within the past year or two a number of exciting new developments to provide supplemental socializing agents have gotten underway. for example. the 1962 amendments to the social security act provided authority for the expansion and improvement of daycare services. states are giving the development of these services high priority. the need is urgent. statistics indicate that there are  more "latch key children"-children left without supervision while their mothers workthan there were during the crisis period of world war 1u. within the past decade the number of working mothers has increased by 73 percent. nine million children under 12 have mothers who workyet licensed public and voluntary daycare facilities are available for less than 200.000 children. we k that the vast majority of these mothers are working for ecoic reasons. and that many of them lack financial resources to pay for adequate care for their children. over a fourth of all children with working mothers who live in twoparent homes have fathers who earn less than $2.000 a year. and almost half the children with working mothers in oneparent homes have mothers who earn less than that amount. children living with their mother only are twice as likely to have an employed mother as are children living in husbandwife families. the constructive potential of the day care experience is immense. particularly for these children from deprived homes. among the children needing day care. we are discovering a significant number who appear to be functionally retardedchildren who may be of mal intelligence and without physical handicaps of any kind. but whose development has been so stunted by the paucity of stimulation in their home invironments that they lack any drive to learn. to play. even to speak. through the development of really excellent day care services we can do much to supplement the positive elements in the childs homelifeand compensate for its drawbacks. we must look to the schools of social work in this country to provide the estimated 20.000 new workers who are required to complete child welfare services in all geographical areas by 1975. as mandated by the 1962 amendments. this covers only one field of social work. the schools are producing only 2.505 graduates each year so the magnitude of the needs for reaching this goal becomes apparent as a responsibility of the university. a free nation can rise higher than the standards of excellence and dedication set by its universities and colleges by producing these many teams of workers in the service professions to put to work new ways of reducing igance and illiteracy. school dropouts. dependent and neglected children. negation of civil rights. ill health. and debilitation for children and adults. the schools are encouraging  only good social policy but good ecoics. while i have centered on meeting human needs i have  forgotten the other long story of boston universitys contribution to industry and finance as they actively recruit the engineers. scientists. business administrators or ecoists our country needs. and yet. that is  the whole story. sometimes we go on perpetuating the wistful myth that if only we had egh money to spend. we could wipe out poverty. reverse urban decay. anchor our drifting. unhappy youth. care for and protect our children. secure education for all who need or could use it to achieve their highest potential. and safeguard our families. but i believe that the most important ingredient in accomplishing this is  money. as important as this is. it is the cooperative effort and dedication of our people in building the better society we seek for the future in all of our communities. quite obviously. it is to this high purposemeeting human needsthat universities and colleges must dedicate themselves and the young people who attend them. for it is they who must light the way for our country and for future generations.
