. i should like to deal with some of the attainments of the project during 1969. and with some of the prospects for its future work. first. the project has been administered over the course of the past several years by the eastern mediterranean development institute. a profit unincorporated association. the board of directors consists of nationals of the nato countries. with a large majority being nationals of greece and turkey. in the course of the past year. indiges sister organizations have been set up in greece and in turkey themselves. and funds have been raised in local currency to meet their necessary expenses. work has been going forward on various projects of the sort mentioned above. in several of these areas. there has been substantial progress. in the field of tourism. a able success was achieved when. in march 1969. the greek national tourist organization and the turkish ministry of information and tourism held a meeting in istanbul. at which were present as observers the deputy chairman of the emdi. the hoable kasim gillek. and its executive director. the hoable seymour j. rubin. at the march meeting. the two sides approved. subject to ratification. thefirst intergovernmental document signed between greece and turkey since the eruption of the difficulties over cyprus. this was a proc~sverbal which is intended to lead to a formal agreement on cooperation in the field of tourism. the agreement which is contemplated would call for the establishment of a permanent consultative committee before which can be laid various proposals of mutual benefit in touristic endeavors. subsequent to the meeting of officials in march. further meetings of a less formal sort have been held. the most recent of these was held in athens on december 5. 1969. at these meetings. the private sector of both countries has strongly expressed its support for cooperation on tourism. and has agreed that the lifting of visa restrictions for tourists of greek and turkish origin would be of mutual benefit to the two countries. were this to be done. it would largely restore the freedom of transit between the two countries which had existed after the farsighted arrangements which were made in the mid1920s by the two great statesmen of the area. venizelos and ataturk. additionally. others outside the region have expressed strong interest in participating in touristic developments. a meeting thus was held under the sponsorship of the deutschebank in frankfurt on october 13. at which various german and italian interests. together with a representative of the international finance corporation. discussed the possible organization of research and financing entities which might help to promote tourism in the region. tourism in this region is of great importance. it is already a major source of income so far as greece is concerned. it promises to be an equally useful source of foreign exchange on the turkish side. moreover. the touristic area of the aegean is so interlaced between the turkish mainland and the greek islands as to make regional development  only attractive to tour operators and to developers of touristic areas. but practically at least in the long run. inevitable. the administrative arrangements which are contemplated under the procsverbal of march 1969. should make a continuing contribution to this development and should help to develop continuing working relationships between the two sides. a major endeavor of the project for greek turkish ecoic cooperation and the eastern mediterranean development institute has been that involving the meric/evros river. in previous reports. i have ed that this work has moved forward extraordinarily well. with a heavily documented prefeasibility or reconnaissance study having emerged in late 1967 from the joint work of a large group of turkish. greek. and german experts. this report was revised and in its final form approved. subject to slight modification. at a large international meeting held in frankfurt in september 1967. it was then put in the hands of various international financing bodies such as the world bank and the european investment bank. and has been extensively discussed with the united nations development programme which. with the ibrd. had been kept au courant at all stages of the .research and study work. after a considerable amount of preparatory discussion. both the greek and the turkish governments have officially ified the undp of their desire to move forward with further developmental work on the meric/evros. with the help of the undp. as of early december 1969. a senior representative of the undp has visited both greece and turkey for discussions with experts and governmental officials there. these discussions are expected to lead to an official proposal to be laid before the next governing board of the undp in the spring of 1970. hopefully. this work will lead to a full scale feasibility study financed by the undp and the greek and turkish governments. with certain small pilot projects included. in areas of land management. irrigation. and small power projects in this sensitive area. the border between greece and turkey in thrace. should full scale implementation of this feasibility study be undertaken. the final scale of expenditure is estimated in the neighborhood of $100 to $150 million. this is obviously a matter of great importance both to the ecoies of greece and turkey. and to the population of this politically sensitive border area. it is important to e. as i have mentioned in previous reports. that the meric/evros river rises in bulgaria. where it is called the maritsa. and that the bulgarian government has in several ways expressed interest in the developmental work which i have just mentioned. this interest was expressed. for example. in a visit to me of the bulgarian ambassador in washington. prior to its recent contacts with the greek and turkish governments. the undp consuited with bulgarian authorities in sofia. it would be premature to make any predictions as to whether the meric/ evros project may evolve  merely into a binational and regional development project. but into one which would form a link based on mutually useful development work between east and west. that prospect in any case remains open. and is partially encouraged by a recent amelioration of relationships between turkey and bulgaria and between greece and bulgaria. finally. in this respect. it should be mentioned that one of the objectives of emdi has been from the outset to stimulate the activities of others on developmental projects in the grecoturkish area. this attempt to achieve a multiplier effect with the efforts of emdi has had more than a reasonable amount of success. thus.  only have tourism projects evolved and have physical and business connections with the two sides developed. but a new project has been set in motion in the field of agricultural research in the meric/evros region. this is a project funded by the thyssen foundation of germany. and led by a group of german agroists to investigate the conservation of soils which on both the turkish and the greek side of the river have been eroded over the course of many years by excessive grazing and by improper methods of land management. this project. which is a direct outgrowth of the work done by the german. turkish. and greek team on its meric/evros study. is at present under way. hopefully. other aspects of the basic meric/evros study will lead to further exploratory and scientific work of this same general sort. the prospect of this happening seems to be quite good. since the basic material upon which further research proposals can be based is already contained in the meric/evros report. and since that report itself demonstrates the feasibility of a joint and cooperative research effort. on other projects of emdi. it is  necessary at this stage and in this form to say much in detail. work is proceeding on projects having to do with the export of agricultural produce to western europe and on investigation of the ecological conditions affecting fish resources in the eastern mediterranean. the recent meeting of the board of directors of emdi received a new suggestion that emdi could perhaps contribute to the training of greek and turkish guest workers in western europe. and to the evaluation of methods by which the skills of these workers could be put more effectively to work when they returned to their own countries. a proposed meeting of industrialists of the two countries is to take place shortly in istanbul and its program has been expanded to include the development bankers of both countries. in short. there are ample opportunities for cooperative work. opportunities which can be seized if conditions permit. second. i turn  to a new and potentially extremely important aspect of the work which has. until . been done on the project for greekturkish ecoic cooperation under the auspices of the emdi. this arises out of the recommendations contained in the report of the rapporteur of the political committee of the th atlantic assembly. the hoable erik blumenfeld. of germany. this report. which was considered by the political committee of the th atlantic assembly at its meetings in brussels in october 1969. under my chairmanship. suggested the desirability of expanding the objectives of emdi and of establishing a mediterranean development organization. the recommendation was carefully considered by the political committee. it was. therefore. considered also by the ecoic committee of the assembly. under the chairmanship of  of the ecoic committee of the th atlantic assembly. with mr. blumenf eld. and with m. phillippe deshormes. the secretarygeneral of the th atlantic assembly. based upon an analysis prepared by mr. rubin. further work is going forward to explore both the problems and the possibilities with a view toward a meeting at the international secretariat of the th atlantic assembly in march next. which will consider the establishment of a working group. as called for in the recommendation and which will attempt to establish a program of work for that working group. the timetable set up at the paris meeting of december 9. 1969. suggests that it should be possible to lay a specific proposal before the fall 1970 meeting of the th atlantic assembly. many difficulties will have to be overcome before one may reasonably say that progress has been made toward the objectives of the recommendation annexed hereto. but work has been started on this project in a good spirit. with a desirable objective in mind and with the first prerequisite of success. that is. kledge of the difficulties. in these circumstances
