it certainly is. the commission is expected to report on three matters: housing. education. and voting rights. other important areas of civil rights remain. like those arising in the administration of justiceneed may be shown by the report for other legislation but that is reason for deferring legislation the need for which is already shown by events which have transpired. again i point to the fact that the need for such legislation was recognized at the opening of this session. by the bill of the majority leader. dealing with the bombing of homes. schools. and places of worship. as well as by the bill of the administration dealing with the same subject. i have a right to say to the members of my own party in the senate that certainly the determination of republicans upon this issue should be clear. the great bipartisan tradition of civil rights legislation has been premised upon the support of the overwhelming body of republicans. this support should  be marshaled and made effective when it is needed the mostright . we do  inherit the lincolnian tradition solely as an hoable distinctionwe inherit it as a dynamic incentive to legislative action if we are truly to deserve its prestige. civil rights legislation has been reported by the senate judiciary committee. to which 26 civil rights bills including 6 in the package of 7 recommendations by the president. have been referred and which in total. are sponsored by 51 different senators. the other administration bill. the seventh item in the package. was referred to the senate labor and public welfare committee.  has the senate majority leader. ial campaignand the drive for democratic party unity on some compromise civil rights plankwhich will make it easier to bypass civil rights legislation. i point out that the drive for democratic unity comes regularly every 4 years. i think it is a very important factor in respect of our time schedule for civil rights legislation.
we have had an absolutely extraordinary degree of unity of opinion among the miity members of the committee on labor and public welfare. especially on very trying questions like the war on poverty and the oeo. it is well kn that we are  men of necessarily parallel views. my views are  necessarily those of other members of the miity. there are some exceptions to that. but i really credit my colleague from vermont with exercising enlightened influence which has enabled me to point with such prideand i doto the degree of unity which we have been able to attain. time and again the able senator from vermont has subordinated what he has felt to be deeply held views to try to come. as far as he could. to meeting mine and that of other members of the committee. it is characteristic that in his statement today he includes the administrations approach insofar as we were able to carry it through. even for some of the things the committee did itself. but the general outline of the bill is characteristic of the very. very constructive influence which has helped to hold the miity together and give it such a constructive position. it has made my work as ranking member. with the duties that carries. tenable and practicable. i am very gratefulspeaking personally. and i mean iti am very grateful to the senator from vermont.
. the senator from missouri and i have sponsored this amendment before the committee on labor and public welfare and saw it through a conference. i feel exactly as he does about what it symbolizes. that it represents the fact we have become heavily urbanized. that federally impacted areas are longer confined to army camps. stations. or similar installations in relatively sparsely settled areas of the country. this is in response to a very real need and i hope very much. especially those interested in impacted aid. that senators will see the fairness of inclusion of this highly desirable and equitable provision i. too. am a cosponsor of this amendment.
. while it is important to increase income benefits to the aged through the welfare and social security system. these efforts can be considered as supplanting programs like the senior opportunities and services program. which engage the aged poor in selfhelp efforts and fill the gaps in other efforts. second. this amendment is designed to clarify section 11 of the committee bill. which senator williams and i added during committee consideration. that section. entitled "special assistance" authorizes $50 million annually for programs designed to serve groups of lowincome individuals who are  being effectively served by other programs under title ii of the ecoic opportunity act. our amendment merely makes it clear that special consideration is to be given both to the elderly and to persons who reside outside of lowincome areas. those residing outside of such areas are often excluded from regular programs. this was documented very thoroughly in the ember 1971 report and recommendations of the commission on urban affairs of the american jewish congress. entitled "the jewish poor and the war against poverty." i add only that there are many other individualswho are  elderly or jewishwho are subject to the same exclusion. and. of course. we also intend that they be benefited by this new provision. i hope that the senate will agree to the amendment.
