 contains some telling figures on this point. according to the report: in 1962 whites (ninetenths of whom are negroes) made up 11 percent of the labor force and 22 percent of the unemployed. on the average. there were 900.000 white workers without jobs in 1962. with an unemployment rate of 11 percent. more than twice that for white workers. 5recommendation 12 reaffirms a similar recommendation made by the commission in its 1959 report. the commission reemphasizes its position that this recommendation does  contemplate the establishment of school records by race or ethnic classification. the trend toward the elimination of such identification on student records should. in fact. be accelerated. the difference is even more striking among adult men. the unemployment rate for the white adult was 21/2 times9.4 percenthigher than the rate3.6 percentfor the white worker. some of the difference is undoubtedly due to the fact that negroes are concentrated in occupationsunskilled farm and farm labor. semiskilled production and service jobswhich are especially vulnerable to unemployment. limited education and training are also a factor. discrimination in the educational opportunities available to the white handicaps him for life. putting him at the bottom of the ladder in the job world. small wonder that the achievement of equal educational opportunities is a matter of overriding concern to our negro citizens as is evidenced by our inclusion of this area in the package of proposed legislation which we are introducing this aftern. but. while it is difficult to overestimate the urgency of rectifying this basic injustice. better educational opportunities are  the whole answer to the problem. with all due allowance for lesser education and training. the fact remains that all too often the negro finds the door to employment closed to him simply because he is a negro. it is at this situation that the three bills i  introduce are aimed. the first bill would prohibit discrimination in employment because of race. religion. color. national origin or ancestry and would establish a federal commission on equality of opportunity in employment. the second bill would establish a commission on equal employment opportunity to encourage and enforce a policy of equal opportunity in federal employment and employment under government contracts and subcontracts. applicable to both employers and labor organizations. it would also withdraw federal support and approval from apprenticeship and worker training programs which deny individuals equal opportunity to participate therein and from state employment services which are operated on a segregated basis. finally. it would authorize the national labor relations board to set aside representation elections in which resort is made to appeals to race prejudice by either management or labor. the third bill would establish a commission on fair employment practices in the district of columbia. the need for each of these measures has been fully demonstrated. they are generally in accord with the recommendations of the civil rights commission. as are a great majority of the provisions of the bills which we have joined in introducing this aftern. recommendations based on painstaking investigation and hearings in virtually every section of the country. they would provide a statutory basis for action long overdue.  to speak of the vindication of the platforms of both the republican and democratic political parties. i ask unanimous consent that the findings and recommendations of the civil rights commission in its 1961 report on employment and the text of my bills be printed in full in the record at the end of my remarks. and that the bills be permitted to lie at the desk through the close of business on thursday. april 7. in order to permit other senators who may wish to cosponsor these measures to do so.
