. i was interviewed this past weekend on a television program shown in new jersey as well as in the new york city and philadelphia areas. my interviewer was james mccartney. washington correspondent for the chicago daily news. we talked mainly about the bobby baker case. some of the points brought out by mr. mccartney deserve a wider audience. it was mr. mccartney who first reported in his paper that bobby baker had told a visiting group that he had 10 senators in the palm of his hand. during our interview. mr. mccarthy brought out some additional details which make the bobby baker case seem all the more shocking. according to mr. mccartney. when he confronted baker with his reported statement. baker only smiled broadly. he did  deny it. still worse. upon further checking. the reporter discovered that baker had made this same boast of his influence over individual senators on at least three different occasions over the course of 3 years. the senate rules committee has shown inclination to get to the bottom of reports like this. these reports reflect badly  on bobby baker alone but on the reputation of this entire body as well. unfortunately. the job of awakening is being done  by the senate but by the press and by the public. the mail and newspaper comments that come to my desk daily from all over the cx----826 country is proof that the country is  content by any means to let the baker case die. i  ask unanimous consent that more of this editorial support be printed in the record at this point together with excerpts from my interview on television.
. on behalf of my colleague the gentleman from new york and myself. i introduce two bills. a joint resolution. and submit two resolutions to establish an enforceable code of ethics covering officials and employees of the legislative and administrative branches of the federal government. included in the proposed legislation is a measure requiring that regulatory agencies make a part of the public record all types of communications from members of congress concerning any cases which come before them. congress has so far failed to meet its responsibility to enact meaningful legislation governing ethical standards of conduct and conflict of interest situations involving the more than 2.300.000 federal officers and employees who work in the legislative and executive branches. during the last session. partially as the result of the controversy over the adams case. a code of ethics was adopted by the congress. which consisted of 10 rather general statements of moral purpose. it supplied neither the guidance for specific incidents which is so needed.  the enforcement machinery for weeding out the rare cases of unethical behavior which reflect adversely on the whole government service. its shortcomings were pointed out in a report of the committee on post office and civil service. it is  a mandate. the report states. it does  impose any positive legal requirement for specific acts or omissions. obviously. then. the need for positive. comprehensive legislation in this field is still an urgent matter. i believe congress should act .  wait for the emotions caused by a single newsworthy controversy to bring out many improvised proposals. the voters have every right to expect that their representatives in congress will establish for their own guidance and for that of members of the executive branch a code of ethics less exacting than that governing professions like medicine and the law. and like their codes. it should provide means for disciplining violators. i fully expect that the proposals we are introducing today will be referred to the committees on labor and public welfare. and rules and administration. as a member of both committees. i will press for immediate consideration of this legislation. which was developed as a result of my experience as attorney general of new york state. several of the provisions in our bills are also supported by recommendations of the house subcommittee on legislative oversight issued in its report of january 3. 1959. the five proposals introduced by my colleague and myself are as follows: first. a bill to establish a federal code of ethics which spells out in specific terms standards of ethical conduct for legislative and executive officials. violators in the executive branch are subject to discharge. and. in addition. the attorney general may bring civil action against them for recovery of damages. second. a bill requiring that any written or oral communications between any member of congress or his staff and a regulatory agency dealing with a matter before it must be part of the public record. third. a resolution amending the senate rules to give the rules committee jurisdiction over cases of alleged violation of federal ethical standards involving members of the senate or their staffs. it can also issue advisory opinions on the propriety of proposed official conduct. fourth. a joint resolution to set up a bipartisan commission on ethics in the federal government to study existing conflict of interest regulations and make recommendations for a more comprehensive ethical code. fifth. a resolution permitting senators to abstain from voting on matters where they may have direct personal interest in the legislation. without having to secure the permission of the senate. the interim federal code of ethics in effect while the commission carries out its yearlong study is closely patterned after that adopted by new york state a few years ago and put into operation while i was attorney general of new york. it would require officials to file with the comptroller general a statement of their substantial financial interests in activities regulated by the federal government. other provisions specify that  only must the official maintain his integrity in fact. but he may  engage in any activity or in any way create a reasonable impression which could give rise to a suspicion that any person unduly enjoys his favor or that he is otherwise in violation of the high standards of his public trust. this interim code would also include prohibitions against the following: outside employment which would impair objectivity in the exercise of official duties. business or professional activity requiring the disclosure of confidential government informationdisclosure of such confidential information to further personal interests. use of official position to secure unwarranted privileges or exemptions for himself or others. serving two masters: the government and a private enterprise. personal investments in enterprises which the officer might have to regulate or pass upon in his official capacity. and selling goods or services to a person or corporation which is regulated by the state agency in which the public officer or employee is employed. we can eliminate all the doubtful shadow areas in the field of possible conflict. what we must do is set up reasonable standards which can and will be followed. without tying in so much redtape the administrative and legislative process that it ceases to function effectively. excessive requirements which would unduly publicize an officials personal affairs may well have the effect of keeping out of government service many able men who have made their mark in the business world. but who would  wish to have every private gift and private source of income. matter how inent. a matter of public kledge. a declaration of substantial outside interests is reasonable and reporting to the comptroller general such interests over a certain amount like $10.000 might be the solution. and my code so provides. so. too. for the unacceptability of expensive gifts. congress has been dealing with this problem since the adoption by the house of representatives on april 7. 1789. of its first rules. providing that: "member shall vote on any question. in the event of which he is immediately and particularly interested." i hope that we can meet this responsibility .
madam president. last thursday dr. prank stanton. president of the columbia broadcasting system. delivered a most thoughtful and informative speech regarding proposed postal rates legislation affecting newspapers and magazines. since this matter will soon be taken up by the senate. i believe it to be useful for senators to have the benefit of the view: of this distinguished communications executive. my fellow cviii---610 new yorker. i therefore ask unanimous consent that his address be printed in the record.
