 under the headline "sadats rule has seen little material gain for egypt." the washington post today carried a rather gloomy background article on egypts ecoic situation. i can endorse all the findings or observations in this article. but i do support the view that it remains in the interest of the united states to assist egypt in ways which will really bring about a better way of life f or the people of that country and thus lead to political and ideological stability in egypt and in the middle east. over the past 3 years the point has been made that if a peace agreement is somehow reached in the middle east it will give a major boost to countries like egypt. this is truebut on certain conditions. improvement in the political climate in the area will help a great deal in stimulating the ecoic recovery of states like egypt. but the peace must be a real peace and one that can last and must be a web of mutually beneficial relationships between the parties so it is  in anyones interest to break the peace. the sinai agreements produced momentum and progress and some confidence was built up in the middle east. but this confidence was insufficient to overcome the dreadfully difficult ecoic conditions within egypt or to stimulate an overhaul of the structure of egypts ecoic apparatus sufficient to attract foreign investment. in real terms. little western capital has been put into egypts business structure or into services that can stimulate the business and industrial sectors and provide more jobs. western capital. by and large. comes either from private investors or from the international banking institutions. both have so far balked at largescale investments in egypt. egypt is a nation with inadequate resources and with a spiraling population growth. money alone will  solve egypts difficulties since it would be quickly consumed by its expanding population. yet. many of us. among them senator hubert humphrey. chairman of the subcommittee on foreign assistance of the foreign relations committee. believe that. with the variety of resources we have. we can do a better job in demonstrating to egypt that real help can be given. to accomplish this. we have to shift the emphasis of our ecoic assistance program. which has already amounted to over $5 billion. we have to get away from aid to egypt chiefly in the form of consumer goods which are quickly used up and forgotten and also from aid to failing governmentrun industries which are inefficient and unproductive. what we k best how to do. as senator humphrey has pointed out. is to help develop the private sectors of a countryindustrial. business. and agricultural. it is that endeavor we should pursue here. under the humphrey amendment to this years foreign assistance bill we have asked the agency for international development to get outside experts from the private sector to come up with firm suggestions on how we might bring this about. we have in mind people with real. onthejob experience. people who have been successful in the united states and in developing countries. it is well to bear in mind that egypt suffered through over 10 years of russian socialism which wreaked havoc on its ecoy. it is in our interest to turn the situation around. and to show the people of egypt we have a better way. if we fail in doing this then i have serious doubts about the future and about egypt remaining committed to the west. in this respect i am worried that aid is off to a bad start in carrying out the humphrey amendment. we are trying to work out our differences with the agency. but so far there seems to be an institutional bias running against us. their current approach in egypt still seems too concerned about largescale. long range public projects which will  do the immediate job at all. for example. we understand.that aid is considering spending onethird of the limited funds available under the humphrey amendment for a "macroecoic study" which is unrelated to the specific goals we have set. we already have a good idea of what is wrongin egyptwhat we want to do is to set it right. i doubt whether we should spend such a large part of the study funds to show to be true what we already k to be true. instead. the focus ought to be the working out of new and more effective ways to help egypt. . there remains great good will in the congress. and certainly among the members of the foreign relations committee of the senate. toward egypt and its needs. we want to help to bring real prosperity to egypt. but the effort and the cause of peace is  helped if the united states continues on the current path which has yet to bring affirmative results in egypt. it would be a great shame. given our strenuous efforts to bring stability and peace to the middle east. if we should fail because some officials are too frightened of tomorrow to break out of the bureaucratic habits of yesterday. i ask unanimous consent that the washington post article be printed in the record.
may i say this to my colleaguebecause he brings me to the next pointi do  think anyone has stated clearly yet why we are on the international stage and why we have to do this and why it is all important. if the dollar is going to sell on the world market at a discount. then the united states is compelled to pay higher prices for an emous range of raw materials which we need. the famous paley study on natural resources and needs of the united states demonstrated that there are certain basic requirements to keep our industrial machine going which require vast expenditures in the world. because we have such reserves. therefore. matter how autocratic we might want to become. these raw materials are necessary to be acquired by us. we have to measure that fact against the fact that we are the worlds creditor. i do  like it. i think it is a very unhealthy situation. we are longer in the days of the pax britannica. when some one nation. like the british or ourselves today. should be the source of the worlds credit. the present situation shows it is too risky. it is too risky for us. it is too risky for them. but there remains the question of the maintenance and continuance of some form of world prosperity built upon this credit system. and our own prosperity. upon the fact that our dollar sells abroad at its par value. and therefore enables us to buy everything our industrial machine needs in a competitive situation. that situation could change. and change very drastically against us. as compared with other countries. there is use carrying the american flag around. as a woman did during the london blitz. and thinking the bomb will  hit us. at least we are learning that as a part of our experience. . . we will obtain maximum value by putting all the chips on the table. without being suckerssuckers in the sense that otherwise it may all be drained away because. withstanding any expressing of optimism to the contrary. the faith may  be there in sufficient quantity to justify our optimism.
