. in the wake of the soviet unions rejection of the salt proposals. some second guessers are suggesting that moscows reaction was affected bv its displeasure at criticism of its violations of human rights. some are even questioning why the united states should have raised the issue. to the first point. i am satisfied after studying the reports of the meetings. including the testimony by secretary vance to the senate foreign relations committee. that the human rights controversy was  the reason for moscows rejection of the u.s. proposals. a salt agreement is so important that it stands on its own. the proposals would have been rejectedor acceptedregardless of moscows irritation at those in the administration. congress. the rest of the western world who believe the pledges of the helsinki accord should be hoed. as to the second point. concern for human rights is a basic part of the american political. social. and historic fabric. we have  always achieved fulfillment of the ideals. even at home. but these ideals exist and we can forsake them. they were the motivating force behind our civil rights legislation. and they color our ab~itudes toward other nations. whether they be repressive regimes of the right or of the left. as manifested in the human rights amendments to the foreign aid legislation. even as the salt talks were in process. certain incidents took place which can only add to our concern. i cite these incidents  to show aher reason for criticizing the soviet governments actions. but to try to help them and others understand why we can turn a blind eye to our fellow human beings and the promises made to them by the soviet union as a signatory to the helsinki accord. a specific example took place recently in leningrad. even as secretary of state vance was meeting soviet officials in moscow. a young russian who had sought to emigrate was hospitalized last week after apparently receiving the "burn treatment." the person is ilya levin. a 28yearold linguist and editor. according to those in the united states who talked to him by telephone. and later verified by u.s. officials. he attended a function at the leningrad writers club march 11. and after returning to his table. suddenly iced a burning sensation. later. severe burns and blisters developed on his leg and side. which caused him to be bedridden and finally hospitalized. the burns were diaged by a russian doctor as chemical burns. according to the helsinki commission staff. there had been at least two other reported incidents in leningrad during the past year or two in which activists had developed chemical burnsin one case afiter interrogation by the police. this was  the first instance of "difficulties" suffered by mr. levin who. incidentally. has been accepted as a student at a texas university if only he can get permission to emigrate. in december. he was arrested for 15 days to prevent him from attending the jewish cultural symposium being held then in moscow. in february. he was accused in a leningrad newspaper of "trafficking in antisoviet slander with a west german diplomat." this excerpt from the soviet press indicates the extent to which the authorities use the possibility of foreign connections as a way of branding someone as "antisoviet." thus. soviet press statements play on and enhance what may or may  be genuine popular fear and suspicion of foreigners. linking both soviet dissent and jewish emigration to western propaganda. emigre groups or even the cia. certainly such tactics are contrary to detente and the spirit of helsinki. the soviet authorities do  restrict their activities to attempts to isolate dissidents and jewish activitists. but also try to cut off the average soviet citizen from contacts with the west. people in the united states and in israel who have relatives and friends in the soviet union recently have had even more difficulty than usual in maintaining contacts both by mail and by telephone. i recently was told of an instance when it took 4 days of concerted efforts to reach someone in moscow. the callers from the west were told that one was homealthough at one point the caller heard a familiar voice answer the phone and then it was abruptly cut off by the operator saying that there was answer. when contact was finally made. the person in moscow maintained that he heard the phone ringing. but it went dead as soon as he answered it. earlier events revealed that the official soviet attitude of antisemitism is once again in high gear: soviet television repeated a primetime screening of "buyers of souls." a documentary which accused israel and zionists of using false promises to "lure" jews into emigrating to israel. and izvestiya published a "confession" of a soviet former jewish activist in which he accused many leading jewish dissidents. including anatoly shcharansky. aleksandr lerner. vitaly rubin and vladimir slepak. of being agents of the cia. since hing appears in soviet media without the active approval of the government. these virulent expressions of official disapproval were expected to forebode further action on the part of the soviet authorities. such action came of march 16. 1977. when anatoly shcharansky was arrested as he left vladimir slepaks apartmentwhere he had been staying since the omis article in izvestiyato go across the street to make a phone call. sooner did mr. shcharansky go into the hall. then he was seized by plainclothesmenas two western newsmen looked on helplesslytaken downstairs. and bundled into a waiting car. the izvestiya article gives clear evidence on the reasons why the soviets decided to arrest shcharansky: being alarmed by the prospect of deellning interest in them by their foreign masters who have given them considerable material aid. they (aleksandr lerner and vitaly rubin) decided to team up with the socalled "group for the observation of the fulfillment of the helsinki accords" headed by yu. orlov. v. rubin was introduced into the group and then a. shcharansky. this idea was presented by foreign corresdents (the article goes on to lambaste alfred friendly. peter os. and george krlimky. the ap reporter who had just been expelled from the soviet union) as a step towards the consolidation of persons struggling for "human rights" in the ussr. shcharanskv had served as an important link with the west and foreign newsmenhis excellent command of english had been useful for both jewish activists and dissidents in communicating their news to the outside worldand this was an area of his activity which the soviets particularly disliked. thus. shcharanskys arrest was the culmination of a carefully orchestrated campaign both to discourage dissent and to dampen soviet jewish enthusiasm for emigrating to israel. it appears that the end result of this official campaign against shcharansky will be to charge him with espionage which. of course. is an extremely serious offense carrying very heavy penalties under soviet law. surely such action on the part of the soviet government do  bode well for their fulfilling the promises they made at helsinki. greater freedom of information and human contacts were two of the areas which are covered in the basic three provisions of the helsinki final act. i hope that the soviet government demonstrates its serious intention to fulfill some of the obligations it solemnly undertook at helsinki by releasing anatoly shcharansky. aleksandr ginzburg. yuri orlov. and members of the ukrainianhelsinki groupmykola rudenko and oleksiy tykhy who are being punished only for actively collecting information about the soviet record of compliance with the basic three provisions of the accords. i also call upon the soviet authorities to grant some of the emigration requests by soviet jews such as ilya levin. aleksandr levich. vladimir slepak. and anatoly shcharanskyrequests which the u.s.s.r. promised at helsinki "to deal with in a positive and humanitarian spirit."
