. i rise at this time to express my strong support for house concurrent resolution 387. requesting that the secretary of state call for an international moratorium of 10 years on the killing of all species of whale. porpoise. and dolphincomprising the order of cetaceans. i have long been concerned over the sudden and massive disappearance from our oceans of many species of cetaceans. and strongly commended exsecretary of the interior hickel for adding many of the more endangered species of whale to the endangered species list. i have also discussed in some detail with christian a. herter. jr.. director of environmental affairs for the department of state and ambassador donald l. mckernan. special assistant to the secretary on fisheries and wildlife and coordinator of ocean affairs. the possibility of the united states convening a world conference on the protection of wildlife. a major objective of which would be to conclude a treaty to protect our worlds cetaceans. the international union for the conservation of nature and natural resources. a respected scientific organization headquartered in switzerland. has prepared. a draft convention for this purpose in consultation with many governments. including the united states. i was most disappointed. along with many of our most eminent conservationists. that the international whaling convention failed to impose more rigid quotas for member countries to adhere to. however. i can understand the reason for this failure since it is almost impossible to determine whether the quotas are being violated without placing iwc observers on all whaling ships. a measure that many member countries would  agree to. after the senate passed a resolution calling for a 10year moratorium on the killing of all species of whales. i was most alarmed to learn of the fear of dr. kenneth ris. one of the most kledgeable men in the world on the problems the cetaceans are facing. that the senatepassed resolution by stringent definition would only call for a moratorium on species of whales. and  of porpoises and dolphins which are also members of the cetacean family but  whales. for example. the killer and pilot whales are called whales but are species of porpoises. after discussing the possible recriminations of such an omission with many experts in this field such as dr. arthur c. clark. dr. carlton ray of the smithsonian institution. mr. phil roedel. director of the national marine fisheries service. a. and dr. kenneth ris. editor of whales. dolphins and porpoises. i decided it would be necessary to introduce a resolution calling for a 10year moratorium on the killing of all species of dolphins and porpoises. and i was most pleased that the house foreign affairs committee ackledged this omission and incorporated my resolution into house concurrent resolution 375 before reporting it to the house for consideration. iam inserting into the record at this time my remarks of august 4 upon introducing house joint resolution 836. in case they did  come to your attention and to give you some background on the need for the inclusion of porpoises and dolphins in house concurrent resolution 375: i rise at this time (august 4. 1971) to introduce legislation calling for a 10year moratorium on the willful killingof porpoises and dolphins. and to instruct the secretary of state to encourage the . development and implementation of international controls to minimize the incidental killing of porpoises and dolphins in conjunction with the catching of tuna. some 40% of the worlds yellowfin tuna and almost 50% of the worlds skipjack tuna are caught in the company of porpoises and dolphins. there is evidence. according to dr. kenneth risa participant in the international symposium on cetacean research and editor of whales. dolphins. and porpoiseswith whom i have conferred while preparing this legislation. that these friendly and intelligent mammals are being decimated because of commercial fishing practices. particularly in the eastern intertropical pacific area. the problem is that many commercial fishermen  use highly efficient purse seines (nets) to catch schools of tuna which swim behind and underneath the porpoise schools. perhaps to take advantage of the porpoises ability to locate bait fish by natural sonar. these seines are 4 to 5 times more efficient than using lines and bait. but they encircle porpoises as well and too many die before they can be released. i have been informed by dr. carlton ray of the smithsonian institution that well over 200.000 common dolphin (delphinus delphis). spinner (stenella longirostris) and spotter (stenella graffmani) porpoises die each year in the purse seines of the united states. and when one considers that japan takes as many tuna. and france over twice as many tuna by the same method as the u.s.. the probable figure of porpoise kills per year becomes staggering. there is also considerable evidence that the porpoise schools are becoming smaller than their mal 1.000 animals. according to fishery biologist william f. perrin. who presented a paper to this end to the 6th annual conference on biological sonar and diving mammals. for reasons we do  understand. porpoises caught in purse seines do  jump out of the nets. the danger arises when tuna boats "back down" to draw in the nets. the porpoises navigate by natural sonar and the proximity of the enfolding nets apparently confuses them. once encircled. porposes swim around wildly. and then g.ther together in a group and sound to the bottom of the nets where many of them drown. others become so frightened that they go into shock and rigor and also drown. these animals become highly distressed when a fellowcetacean becomes injured. and will  leave it. which is a possible explanation as to why some porpoises will  jump out of the nets while others are still trapped. many marine scientific groups. including the national ocearaphic and atmospheric administration. have cooperated in the development of new nets with a smaller mesh for tuna fishing. so that the porpoises do  catch their sts. as is presently the case. these new nets will be implemented by yellowfintuna fleets when the new season gets underway next january 1st. and the boats begin to gather the united states annual quota of 140.000 tons. the purpose of the international efforts i have requested would be to help n.o.a.a. through its component. the national marine fisheries service. to develop and implement nets with two other safety featuresan escape hatch. and and an acoustic device in the net to emulate killerwhale calls. the killer whale is a natural enemy of the porpoise. and many scientists. including dr. alan longhurst. director of the fisheryocearaphic center. n.m.f.s.. feel that devices emitting killerwhale calls should be run down leadlines into the purse seines. thus stimulating porpoises to avoid the nets. in behalf of tuna fishermen. it must be granted that they frequently try  to fish on porpoise schools. and. as a rule. do  do so on the traditional fishing grounds. where they look for a "breezing school" of tuna which may hold up to 10.000 fish. breezing schools of tuna feed just below the waters surface. sweeping through small bait fish so swiftly that the ocean appears to be ruffled by the breeze itself. the japanese slaughter annually some 20.000 porpoises for human consumption by driving them out of the water onto land. i fear that without international controls. areas where porpoises are trapped may spread to the western pacific. off samoa. and perhaps to the indian ocean and african coasts. porpoises of the "flipper" variety (tursiops truncatus) used to be killed off the coast of cape hatteras in order to make high quality lubricating oil. such as that used for watches. but this practice ended some 50 years ago. this oil is  imported from the west indies. and is a byproduct of the pilot whale which is killed there for food. however. should a moratorium on the killing of whales go into effect. as is being considered by the house foreign affairs committee. a new source of lubricating oil must be found and i fear that manufacturers will again turn to killing porpoises to obtain this oil. there also has been some speculation that. since a 10year moratorium on whales would mean that pet food products containing whale meat could  be imported into or sold in the united states. pet food manufacturers may turn to the harvesting of porpoises to make their products. this does  mean that i oppose a 10year moratorium on the killing of whales. i support it most strongly. but feel that porpoises and dolphins. which are also members of the cetacean family. should be given equal protection. porpoises mally exercise nurturant and succorant behavior similar to human beings. and as aristotle has stated. "this creature is remarkable for the strength of its parental affection." females exhibit great care for their young. nursing them until they are about 18 months old. and the motheryoung relationship lasts an impressively long time. at around four to six years of age. young dolphins born in captivity have been kn to seek out their mothers from the group when they become tired. sleepy or alarmed. a pertinent example of their succorant behavior was recorded by drs. j. b. siebenaler and d. k. caldwell in 1956: "when a charge of dynamite was exploded in the neighborhood of a school of dolphins. one of the school was stunned by the shock. two adults immediately swam to its assistance and supported the injured animal. when the two assisting dolphins left to breathe. they were relieved by what apparently were different animals. the supporting behavior continued until the injured animal recovered completely. then the entire school left the area. again it is e worthy that the school remained intact and stayed in the danger area until the disabled animal had recovered. instead of obeying what must have been a strong impulse to leave the area of the explosion. such a quick mass departure occurred on aher occasion when dynamite was exploded and e of the dolphins was injured." there are accurate figures available as to the number of porpoises and dolphins in our oceans. only the kledge that the schools are becoming smaller and wilder. and that the population structure is changing. this is due to a different sexratio. apparently because commercial nets primarily kill older animals. females and calfs. leaving the younger and wilder males in greater proportion than is mal. it is my feeling that until studies  underway on porpoise feeding. mating habits. life expectancies and travel habits are completed. a moratorium is the only way to ensure that disaster does nut await the porpoise and dolphin in the future."
. we were all saddened this morning to learn of the tragic death of julia fish. wife of congressman hamilton fish of new york. to our esteemed colleague and his children. may i express the heartfelt sympathy of his freshman colleagues of the 91st club and indeed. all members of this house. may the good lord in whose arms julia rests give strength to sustain him during this time of great sorrow and a time which is. indeed a time of our sorrow.
