what has disturbed me. as my friend from louisiana and some other members of the committee on appropriations k. is that by this action we will be virtually wiping out the allegheny reservation of the seneca nation of the iroquois confederacy in new york state. the proposed dam will back up into new york state. new york state does  claim the land in any way. shape. or manner. it belongs to the seneca indians under a treaty signed by george washington in 1794. by which the land was turned over to the indians in perpetuity. the indians have viewed their holdings in that way. and so view them at the present time. i realize that under the procedure followed by the government of the united states over the years in the handling of matters concerning indian reservations. the government has the legal right to do what is proposed. but what distresses me is the moral responsibility we have. while i am referring to this matter. i wish to praise the distinguished senator from louisiana for the splendid work he has done as chairman of the subcommittee in preparing this appropriation bill.
i. too. want to compliment the chairman of the subcommittee on his distinguished labors. i should like to support my colleague. the senior senator from new york . and to commend and thank him for the very great attention he has given to this matter. for which we are indebted to him. he has paid particular attention to the problems confronting the indians who are involved. and i have joined my colleagues in his very great interest in. and attention to. the problems faced by the seneca indians who are affected and the people of new york who live in the vicinity of the proposed dam. i feel. as does he. that we are very mindful of the needs of other states. and we hope other states will be equally mindful of the needs of the state of new york. so we regard the matter sympathetically from all points of view. i think that in all fairness a number of items should be placed in the record. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record. as a part of my remarks. an excerpt from the pickering treaty of ember 11. 1794. between the seneca nation of indians and the united states. which is inclusive of the lands involved in this matter. in particular. i refer to the words used by timothy pickering. the personal envoy of george washington. these are romantic words when viewed in the context of modern usage. but. nevertheless. are a part of our history and take us back to the early. formative years of this republic in terms of high moral responsibility. timothy pickering said that "as long as the moon rises. the river flows. the grass is green. and the sun shines." the seneca indian would remain undisturbed in his possession of this land. it may be. as my colleague says. that. because of the needs of the sister state. the use of indian lands in the vicinity of the dam will be required. certainly i feel very kindly. as does my colleague. toward our sister state of pennsylvania. as a. member of the appropriations committee. my senior colleague will continue to work very hard in the interest of our sister state. as well as in the interest of our own state. and he has fought the battle there most masterfully. our colleagues in the other body from new york also fought for fairness to the seneca indians and in fact sought to strike out the provision for this dam. though unsuccessfully. i believe that we are trustees for the people who will be displaced. i understand that approximately 1.800 persons are settled on this land. and that 250 families will have to be moved immediately. i say with the greatest respect that i think we have the duty of seeing to it that they receive everything which can be given them under the circumstances. the necessities in that connection will  end with the passage of the bill. but will continue with the development of the project. in dealing with this matter.  only should we take great care to see that justice is done  in the bill. but we should also be very careful to consider what is best to be done as the project is under construction with respect to the methods of construction. the relocation of the displaced indian families and the fairness of the compensation for appropriated lands. i will consider myself a trustee for this purpose in watching carefully what goes on and that justice is done. ho to the high obligations undertaken to the senecas so long ago in the name of the father of our country must hold a high place with us all. again. i should like to commend my senior colleague for his deep understanding of this problem. with which he has lived for so many years.
i also ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record an analysis made by the corps of engineers. which appears on pages 2779 to 2780 of the hearings. with respect to the feasibility of the alternate plan suggested by the seneca indians.
i also ask to have ed in the record a communication which gover harriman of the state of new york sent to the members of congress from new york in the other body of the congress. protesting against this particular matter. which reads in part: the seneca indians have presented an impressive series of documents on an alternative proposal which has apparently  received careful study of the corps of engineers. there appears in the record. as requested by me. data upon the subject of the alternative proposal. which shows the deep interest in this matter which has also been shown by the gover of my state.
i should like fully to support and identify myself with the very fine expression. so ably made. as is his wont. by my colleague. senator keating. i. too. have been very deeply concerned by the situation. particularly as it is reflected in the seneca reservation. which involves an emous amount of local concern. and properly so. the united states has a treaty with the seneca nation. the pickering treaty. which guarantees title to this land and also provides expressly that the senecas shall  be disturbed in their possession of the land. to follow through with this project would be to abrogate what is one of our oldest treaties. it is true that there are a great many local reasons. but i do  make my argument upon local grounds at all. or even upon moral grounds. although they are important considerations in deciding what plan should be adopted for this situation. which affects also our neighbor and sister state. i k that my colleague from new york. senator keating. has raised a good many questions in addition to the question of the seneca indians. especially with reference to the plan of dr. arthur morgan. we feel very deeply and sincerely that many questions have  been satisfactorily resolved. such as which of the two plans would displace fewer people. which would usurp the most land. and which would cost more. there are also other questions which have  been fully answered. there is the elementary question of whether there are any kn recreational developments which would be affected. there are other questions. also. therefore. we have felt that further investigation. under the house joint resolution which is pending in the matter. was a good way to obtain that information. we are faced with a reality. as my colleague from new york has said. and apparently the time has gone by for these protests. hence. my colleague and i make a further suggestion. of course. senator keating and i have been constantly active together in this matter. the suggestion is that. withstanding the proposed appropriations. which undoubtedly will be made. the corps of engineers at our request will review the elements of dr. morgans plan. in the hopeand i k my colleague shares my view in thisthat if they can accept the mainparts of itand obviously that question is decided in this appropriation billthey may take some parts of it. i should like to say also that my colleague from new york has been a most important factor in this fight. as is shown by his excellent speech today. i have tried to do my part. too. i can pledge to the people of that area. and to the senecas. that we will attempt to do all we can to at least alleviate if  obviate the great disadvantages and difficulties which they contemplate from this situation.
as the senator from louisiana ks. there has been considerable concern in new york state about the seneca nation and the use of the lands for the socalled kinzua dam. i ice with much interest that the report deals with that question. and relates specifically to the statement of the president that he will do everything he can to be of aid to the seneca nation. as the senator from louisiana ks. my colleague and i are concerned. because of the great deal of concern which has been expressed in new york state on this subject. and both of us have spoken about this matter before. as we understandand i should like to have confirmation of this by the distingulshed senator from louisianathe corps of engineers will be held rather strictly to the statement made by the committee that it will require the corps to be prepared to report on the results of its studies and on the progress it has made in regard to the seneca nations problem. as outlined in the presidents letter. and that that matter will be considered by the committee at the very latest when the corps representatives appear in support of the 1963 appropriations for the dam.
. i deeply appreciate and k the sincerity of the senators expression. i am trying to nail down the matter. so that hope may be realized in fact. because i feel. as do many others in new york. that the united states is under a real moral responsibility to make amends to the seneca nation. in view of the original treaty. that moral feeling and that human feeling persist. my point is that it is one thing to have that written down. and aher thing to have a deep purpose to see that it is actually done. from the senators remarks. which are very gratifying. i gather that that deep purpose accompanies his explanation and expression of hope. is that correct.
. i am pleased to be a cosponsor of the bill my colleague. senator keating. has introduced today to establish the oriskany battlefield as a national historic site. the battle of oriskany was one of the most significant engagements of the entire revolutionary war. for it stemmed the british advance down the mohawk and never again were the british able to mount a serious offensive threat against the critically important hudson valley. gen. nicholas herkimer. who commanded the american forces at the battle. is one of our great figures of colonial history and stands as a symbol of the fortitude and patriotism of the dutch people who settled in the mohawk valley. one of the most thrilling chapters in american fiction is walter edmonds account of the battle of oriskany in "drums along the mohawk." i commend the book. and particularly mr. edmonds description of the bloody battle. to all americans who take pride in our rich colonial history. new york was one of the crucial battlegrounds of the revolutionary war. and it is my hope that congress will recognize the importance of oriskany to our national heritage by taking favorable action on this bill.
 has directed federal agencies to consider "the possibility of the federal government securing a tract of land suitable for tribal purposes and uses contiguous to the remaining seneca lands in exchange for the area to be flooded." accordingly. section 13 of the bill authorizes the secretary of the interior to purchase or acquire through condemnation proceedings property within the allegany reservation for the relocation of houses and community facilities or for recreational. commercial or industrial development. and property adjacent to the reservation for recreational or commercial development. whether or  the seneca nation will be able to use such "lieu lands" effecively will depend largely upon a study of the ecoic feasibility of development. which is close to completion. additional planning has been initiated by the cattaraugus county planning board in cattaraugus. n.y.. which has formulated a plan for active development of the kinzua reservoir area for recreational purposes. it is. of course. hoped that in working out the details of these development programs. local. state. and federal officials will have an opportunity to work together closely. a large number of seneca families will have vacated their reservation by the required time of january 1. 1965. i believe it is only fair and equitable that the congress insure that the seneca nation of indians and its members are provided for adequately so that a vital and constructive community life may be reestablished.
subsequently said: . as my colleagues k. i have long been deeply concerned with the critical problem of the displacement of the seneca nation of indians from their homes in new york brought about by the construction by the federal government of the allegheny dam and reservoir project. kn as the kinzua project. located at kinzua. pa.. which is scheduled for completion in 1965. the taking of 10.000 acres of land and seneca property by the federal government in the dam area will disturb and disrupt the community life and ecoic and social traditions of the seneca nation. in view of the fact that the nearly 800 senecas in the reservoir area have been warned to abandon their homes by october 1. 1964. the immediacy of the problems of providing compensation for the displaced nation and its members is patently clear. on july 9. i. together with senators
. i wish to report to the senate upon a visit which i made to chile. and from which i returned last tuesday. with respect to the political situation there. which is a difficult one. and with respect to a development there of a more hopeful character for the americas. i had the privilege while i was in chile of addressing the 10th plenary session of the assembly of businessmen of the americas sponsored by the interamerican council of commerce and production. the short name for which in spanish is "cicyp." attending the session in santiago. chile. was probably the most representative group of u.s. executives doing business in latin america and of latin american business leaders gathered together in a long time. we met in chile at a critical time. for that country is  only in a social crisis. but a political crisis as well. there is a grave danger that chile may become the first nation in the western hemisphereor indeed. the first nation anywhereto elect. under democratic processes. a government which includes openly declared communist participation. the danger is that such a government would prove to be castroite in nature. and would be. in effect. a new cuba based on the south american mainland. i ask unanimous consent that i may include in the record at this point of my remarks a news article from the new york times of this very morning. which in essence bears out the conclusion i have just mentioned.
 kennedy felt this deep responsibility for the relocation of the seneca nation. resulting from the kinzua dam construction. and in august 1961 pledged the federal government to assist the seneca nation "in every proper way to make the adjustment as fair and orderly as possible." i am confident that the congress will live up to this pledge and will hoably fulfill the obligation which the united states owes to the seneca nation.
i wish to call the attention of the senate to what i consider to be a most unhappy and deplorable situation. affecting the seneca indians who live in my state. the senecas have been the constant concern of my former colleague. senator ives. my present colleague . and myself. with respect to their displacement from a very important part of their reservation as a result of the construction of the kinzua dam. it is a unique case in that the united states. in a treaty signed by george washington in 1794. bound itself never to claim these lands or "disturb the seneca nation." the courts have nevertheless held that. on the ground of eminent domain and public policy. the government can override the solemn promises made to the indians. but it certainly puts our government under a very grave moral obligation to this nation of indians. the late senator ives urged. and my colleague and i have urged the need for fulfilling the responsibility involved in our moral obligations in respect to the displacement of the seneca indians. yet. the senate and house conferees are  completely tied up in deciding to what extent the government shall compensate the senecas for loss of their land and homes. in fact. according to press reports. the conferees have  met for 6 weeks. in an effort to adjudicate the amount to which the indians are entitled. the house had allowed $20.146.575. as compared with the senate allowance of $9.123.123. the conference remains deadlocked. the indians have to find new homes by october 1. they are still looking for elemental justice. when the bill was before the senate. it was reduced by more than $11 million. which would have gone into a rehabilitation fund for these indians. to which my colleague and i felt they are justly entitled. but we thought we would  stand athwart the bill because it might delay the matter further. and we thought that a conference would speedily resolve the difference. however. the indians are  getting the money to which they are entitled. on the basis of either the senate or the house version. or some compromise between them. grave difficulties are involved. as well as hardships. and the danger of compounding the violation of deep moral responsibility on the part of the united states. in a case like this. it is the duty of the conferees. if they can agree. to come back and ask to be discharged so that the senate may dispose of the matter by appointing new conferees. or to accept the house bill. or in some other way to deal with this urgent situation. this situation has been called to the attention of the country by an article in the new york times today. i ask unanimous consent that it may be printed in the record.
we have real faith that they will reach an agreement. but the problem is that the indians are finding it difficult to find any place in the contiguous towns. what is inherent in the bill is the ecoic basis for the formulation of plans for relocation of the seneca nation.
. i call attention to the fact that seneca falls. n.y.-in my own home stateseeks serious consideration as the historic birthplace of the republican party. the city of ripon. wis.. has been credited by some historians as being the birthplace of the republican party. i understand there are some who claim jackson. mich.. deserves this distinction. and perhaps other cities as well. i would like to place in the record today an article which establishes that seneca falls. n.y.. also deserves serious consideration as the historic birthplace of the republican party. seneca falls is a charming village located on the seneca river in seneca county. just west of syracuse. anyone would be proud to be born in such a village. and certainly the republican party should be. so for the benefit of present and future historians of the republican party and my colleagues. i ask unanimous consent that an article in the seneca falls reveille of seneca falls. n.y.. on september 2. 1964. be printed in the record at this point.
. i am pleased to join my distinguished colleague from oregon as a cosponsor of this legislation. senator packwood has set forth the case most thoroughly. i wish to e that indian tribes in my own state of new york support this measure as a further step in the important goal of fostering indian tribal selfgovernment. i ask unanimous consent that the resolution supporting this bill. unanimously adopted by one of these tribes. the seneca nation of indians. be inserted in the record.
