. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to provide for the construction of civil defense shelters in conjunction with urban renewal areas anywhere in the united states. nearly 400 cities in 42 states already participate in the federal urban renewal program. and every community is eligible to apply. the federal office of civil and defense mobilization estimates that in the event of a massive enemy attack. existing shelter facilities could adequately protect less than 1 percent of our entire population. it is almost incredible that this dread prospect confronts us in 1959. the 10th year since we first learned that aher country had developed the capacity to wage thermonuclear warfare. recently. premier khrushchev repeated his boast that the soviet union. with split second preparations. could launch an attack with intercontiental missiles armed with nuclear warheads against any people on earth. the threat was clearly directed at the united states. we can mark time on civil defense under these circumstances. the prime targets in a sneak attack against us are our densely populated major cities with a heavy concentration of industry. estimates of what it would cost to construct shelters to furnish protection against a direct blast and fallout in 150 of these cities range up to a federal expenditure of $50 billion. however. by helping to finance civil defense facilities in connection with urban renewal projects for a tiny fraction of that costabout 71/2 percent of the anticipated urban renewal authorization for next yearwe can initiate a construction program which would stimulate a major civil defense shelter effort by states and localities. under the terms of my bill. those participating communities which currently contribute onethird of the funds needed for slum clearance and redevelopment compared to a twothirds contribution in capital grants by the federal government. would receive additional money to build shelters on urban renewal sites. to illustrate. had this provision been a part of the law in june 1958. 180 urban renewal projects then under way would have been eligible to receive an additional $30 million over and above the federal contribution required of about $400 million for the construction of civil defense shelters. the 400.000 residents in these projects would then have had some measure of protection against radioactive fallout following a nuclear attack. despite periodic public skepticism regarding shelters. defense authorities view them quite plainly as a life or death proposition. the rand corp.s report. titled a "study of military defense." estimates that even in the event of a 30- to 50minute warning. a nuclear attack against 150 major u.s. cities with civil defense facilities could just about destroy our country. a system of fallout shelters plus provision for tactical evacuation of part of the population following attack warning would cut fatalities nearly in half. a combination of blast and fallout shelters. with rapid entry and evacuation of part of the population prior to attack. would theoretically cut the fatality rate 95 percent. according to the rand report. last year. the federal office of civil and defense mobilization launched a program of public education on the effects of fallout. with the objective of accelerating preparations for radiation protection in recognition of the fact that public awareness of the devastation which could be wrought by nuclear warfare far outstrips our kledge of what personal precautions are essential to survival following an attack. this type of education in civilian defense techniques is all to the good. but we must be alive to use them. positive federal action to initiate a national shelter program is the best kind of proof we can hold up to any potential enemy that a surprise strike against the united states would  catch our civilian population off guard and kk us out in one blowthat such a gamble would. instead. end in destruction of the aggressor nation.
. if we do untie his hands. it does  mean that he will spend all the $200 million. but it does mean that he will longer have a reasoncall it an excuse if you will. that is what it may befor  applying it in a massive way to situations which seem to be causing so much pain and anguish to the country. which constitute a big factor in the agitation in washington . by the socalled poor peoples march. and which are producing such a violent reaction in terms of mail being sent to all members of congress. as to the way in which the poor are dealt with in terms of food. it is well kn. that the food stamp programs are local option programs in many counties. the secretary can institute them over local objections. there has also been. of course. a tremendous complaint that. in the case of commodity distribution. there is a very sharp limitation as to the kind of commodities which people get. that is very restrictive and harmful to any kind of a sound dietary practice.
