. i have heard with the greatest interest the statement of the senator from iowa. i believe he states the case very well. however. i do think it needs one corollary. which bears upon what the senator from louisiana has argued so eloquently. and that is that if we are to do something about this subject. which is of such great importance. it can be done based on the criterion of 1947 to 1965. if we table the amendment. the senator from louisiana ought to be assured that he has already rendered an emous service. because he is making us face this problem. we will face it. that should be made clear. second. i believe we have an obligation to act upon this matter. and to act upon it at this session of congress. i mean this year. i shall do my utmost. as one member of the committee on labor and public welfare. to bring into the committee. in connection with the medical research bill. which is being held up expressly for this purpose. an alternative which we suggest. i hope that we may have from senator mcclellans subcommittee a report before we are required to act on any other bill. in that way we should be able to incorporate. in our own committee. what is recommended as a generic policy. i wish to make a pledge todayand this is due as a matter of elementary justice to the senator from louisianathat we shall act on this matter and use every effort that we can to bring us to that action. including an amendment to the bill which is within the compass of my own committee. to see that the matter is brought to a resolution this year before we go home. so that the policy of the united states can be made clear. it has been brought out in questions and answers on the floor that we are faced with the problem of clarifying some fuzzy language. because this matter has been acted upon in an ad hoc way. i have already pointed out that the wellintentioned amendment of the senator from louisiana contains language which might preclude a waiver even if almost u.s. funds at all were used. obviously the senator from louisiana does  mean that. also. when we look at the stock language of the long amendment that was adopted. for example. the appalachian regional development act and other acts. we find the language: hing contained in this subsection shall deprive anyone of any background patent relating to any such activity without his consent. the phrase is "background patent." there is a wide area for argument as to what that. phrase means. there is the added point that a patented invention. in order really to benefit the public. must  only be in the public domain. but must be used. exploited. developed. refined. and made available to the public. and open to competition. i think that is fine. but that does  mean the brains and ingenuity which has brought such an invention into being should be deprived of reward. all the facts can be reconciled. i believe that we have by our own discussions today clearly indicated something of the consensus on the floor of the senate. i pledge myself as one senator to do my utmost to contribute to the final resolution of this problem this year at this session of congress.
