. i have been a party to these debates for 25 years. i am one of the major movers. i am the ranking member of the committee which worked out the socalled scottmansfield compromise. on the whole. taken overall. it works. and it has kept this country in a reasonable state of balance respecting this highly vexing and highly difficult proposition. the fact that there is violence in boston or violence in some other place is  a very rare occurrence. in fact. i e with great interest that the people of boston favor the reelection of mayor white. though he has taken a vigorous and strong constitutional position. in the face of what from the sound of the decibels seems like a lot of fury in the boston area. but when it gets down to the nittygritty and the voter goes to the voting booth. he may  be happy about it. but his conscience dictates his vote. and it is to sustain the constitution. that is what is at stake in this amendment. i am very gratified that my colleague. senator pastore. as has been his tradition hereeven a longer time than i have spent herewill move to table this amendment. i believe it should be tabled. if for other reason than these amendments constantly pop up as germane amendments on appropriations bills and other measures. and in appropriations bills there are restrictions. fortunately. senator dole. as is typical of him. gave ice that he would bring up this kind of amendment. we have had these amendments brought up when they were  printed. when ice was given. they were submitted at the desk at the tail end of great debate that had hing to do with busing. that is a members right. but it is a right of the senate to be prudent. if -there were. as there have been. these anguished debates on this subject. they rate the importance of the subject. and that is the way in which. if a change is to be made. it should be made. rather than in this way. therefore. the tabling method is the right method. because it says we will . within this context. pass on so critical an issue as this one. we will pass on it deliberately. in an education bill or in aher substantive bill which deals with policy. but we will . on this ad hoc basis. as part of this constant war which is being waged upon the remedy of busing. entertain it in the senate. for that reason alone. it seems to me that members. whether they agree or do  agree. should at least agree with the prudence of preventing this kind of foray. with this kind of atmosphere. on a particular bill. a member has a perfect right to do it. as i say. senator dole. as is his wont. graciously has given us ice of it. etheless. it is that practice on which the senate has somewhat expressed itself on previous tabling motions. and that is why i believe this one should be successful. too.
