 johnsons letter of transmittal concerning h.r. 7097. it is estimated that the overall increased costs to the consumer would amount to in excess of $400 million per year. with the passage of h.r. 7097 the department of agriculture would increase the value of the farmers marketing certificate. the farmer would receive an additional 50 cents for each bushel of wheatthe excess to be borne by the wheat processor. this increase would inevitably be passed on to the consumer through substantial iicreases in bread. cereal. flour. and other wheat and rice products. the increase in the retail price of bread would be close to 2 cents a pound loaf. similarly the retail price of rice would be boosted by about 4 to 6 cents per pound. lowincome groups and largefamily units would be the ones most adversely affected if such legislation were to pass. bread. flour. and cereal products are of particular importance to lowincome groups for whom these staples constitute a relatively high proportion of their diet. studies show that these people consume more wheat and rice products than do higher income groups. a recent survey by the agriculture ecoics department of the university of arkansas concerning rice distribution throughout the country showed that in new england. for example. 75 percent of the rice was distributed to lower income groups. in the 1964 report of the national agriculture advisory commission. one of the goals set forth for the administrations farm policy was consistency with other national policies. it is clear to see. however. that the proposed bill is highly inconsistent with other national programsfor example. the war on poverty. the very people at whom the poverty program is aimed are being asked to pay increased prices for the products that comprise a significant portion of their diet. it is equally inconsistent for the federal government to take away excise taxes on necessities such as handbags. jewelry. and cosmetics with one hand while imposing a bread tax with the other. if this bill were to pass. the price rise would obviously result in decreased consumption and thereby cause severe unemployment in processing and distributing industries. . this is  only bad legislation but bad ecoics. i hope that the house committee on agriculture. which is  considering this bill in executive session. will take a full look at all the ramifications of the legislation and eliminate these unwarranted provisions.
. in the first instance. i wish to point out that much of the matter about which my colleague from new york has been speaking. i covered in my remarks earlier today. i am sure he would be the last to make a statement that organizations like the federation of labor of the state of new york. the utility workers of america. cio. the new york state farm bureau. the new york state grange. the empire state chamber of commerce. and the association of towns in the state of new york are  representative organizations in the state of new york. while i am at this point. i should like to suggest that. after all. it is the towns which represent the people of the state of new york who are the rural constituents. as it were. after all. when it comes to the rea and the cooperative production of electricity. i think the association of towns. probably as nearly as anyone else. represents the rural people of new york state. the association of county supervisors of the state of new york also is a very important organization in the representation of the rural people of the state of new york. i think the association of towns and the association of county supervisors of the state of new york represent the rural people of new york state more than any other official organization. i am certain that my colleague will agree that the associated industries of the state of new york is an important organization. representing hundreds of thousands of persons in the state. and. through their individual membership in it. various groups. associations. and connections.
hawaii [. the potential benefits of and public support for this proposal are clear. lextended daylight saving time would save energy. enhance traffic safety. reduce violent crime. and create substantial business for many industries. the general public supports extended daylight saving time by may 19.1986. : • con a margin greater than 2 to 1. and the administration supports a 2month extension of daylight saving time. i will  dwell upon these points because i do  believe that theyare disputed by opponents of the amendment. instead. i would like to discuss the concerns of farmers. the american farm bureau federation believes that daylight saving time should be observed only from memorial day to labor daya period of just more than 3 months. i would like to point out that most sunrises in april under daylight saving time would be as early as sunrises during this 3month period. sunrise on april 26. which was this years earliest sunrise. would be the same as sunrise on august 10 under daylight saving time. therefore. this amendment will  adversely affect farmers. : i urge my colleagues who are skeptical about extending daylight saving time. as i was. to examine the effects of daylight saving time in april. as i have. i believe that you will find reason to oppose this amendment. and every reason to support it.
hawaii [. the potential benefits of and public support for this proposal are clear. lextended daylight saving time would save energy. enhance traffic safety. reduce violent crime. and create substantial business for many industries. the general public supports extended daylight saving time by may 19.1986. : • con a margin greater than 2 to 1. and the administration supports a 2month extension of daylight saving time. i will  dwell upon these points because i do  believe that theyare disputed by opponents of the amendment. instead. i would like to discuss the concerns of farmers. the american farm bureau federation believes that daylight saving time should be observed only from memorial day to labor daya period of just more than 3 months. i would like to point out that most sunrises in april under daylight saving time would be as early as sunrises during this 3month period. sunrise on april 26. which was this years earliest sunrise. would be the same as sunrise on august 10 under daylight saving time. therefore. this amendment will  adversely affect farmers. : i urge my colleagues who are skeptical about extending daylight saving time. as i was. to examine the effects of daylight saving time in april. as i have. i believe that you will find reason to oppose this amendment. and every reason to support it.
. yesterday the senate passed s. 2818. a bill to ban the cancercausing substance. des. in cattle food. a copy of that bill was on my desk and on the desk of all senators. that copy stated that mr. proxmire. on behalf of himself. mr. case. mr. kennedy. mr. moss. and mr. ribicoff sponsored the bill. which had been read twice and referred to the committee on labor and public welfare. however. in the ember 8. 1971 is117. part 30. page 39734. there is a little item. appearing under statements on introduced bills and joint resolutions. which states that s. 2818 was introduced by mr. proxmire. for himself. mr. mcgovern. mr. case. mr. moss. and mr.
. h.r. 2010 is clearly inadequate as a solution to the problem of preventing the competition of mexican bracero labor from disastrously undercutting wage standards and employment conditions of seasonal farm labor in the united states. when public law 78 was enacted in 1951 for the regulation of mexican farm labor in this country. it was designed to provide a means of replacing the large numbers of domestic farm workers who were drafted during the korean conflict. the law provided for minimal wage and housing standards for bracero labor. and at the same time created u.s. government machinery for the transportation and placement of this labor. the measure was  intended to create a permanent pool of inexpensive mexican labor to the detriment of american workers. but was rather a temporary measure to fill the gap caused by the increased draft. the korean conflict is long since over. the domestic farm labor force has regained its former proportions. the farm labor shortage is all but existent. the nation is in a period of unusually high unemployment. yet mexican labor is still widely used at wage levels which are ecoically impossible for most american workers. because of the low level of the mexican ecoy in relation to that of the united states. mexican farm labor accepts wages which are substandard for american workers. in fairness to both mexican and american farm labor. the law must be changed. h.r. 2010. i repeat. is inadequate to the problem. the amendment to that bill which senator mccarthy has proposed would go a considerable way toward alleviating the situation. his amendment was originally included in s. 1945. which i sponsored with him. if incorporated in the bill  before the senate. the proposed amendment would accomplish two highly worthwhile objectives: first. it would require that bracero labor receive payment at a rate approximately equivalent to prevailing domestic wages. and second. it would thus enable domestic american farm labor to compete on more even terms with mexican migratory labor. . with unemployment at an unconscionably high level nationally. and american domestic farm labor afflicted with chronic unemployment and underemployment. i believe we have alternative but to adopt this amendment. of course the mccarthy amendment. important as it is. deals with but one facet of the complex problem of migrant labor in this country. recently the senate approved legislation providing for improved health services and educational opportunities for migrant workers and their families and for the registration of employers of migrant workers. there is much more to be done. and single measure will solve the entire problem. but the mccarthy amendment would be a real forward step. i urge its adoption by the senate.
i point out to the senator from south carolina that what the senator from pennsylvania is saying is correct. the figure for the median income of negroes in south carolina is 35 percent of the median income of whites in the whole state. taking into account both farm and farm population.
madam president. in introducing today a bill to amend the agricultural marketing agreement act of 1937 as amended. i am representing the substance of a measure which i had introduced in august 1965. my action last august was to offer an amendment to h.r. 9811. the 1965 farm bill which the senate was at that time considering. i withdrew that proposed amendment at the request of the chairman of the committee on agriculture and forestry. who felt that. regardless of the merits of my proposal. an amendment to last years farm bill was  the proper vehicle for achieving the necessary action. today. i am reintroducing my measure with the forekledge of the senator from louisiana who is the chairman of the committee by which it will be considered. my bill will permit the egg industryif its members so wish. through their affirmative expression in a referendumto take advantage of privileges which are presently available to producers of milk. of many fruits. of tobacco. of fresh vegetables. of hops. of honeybees. and naval stores. my bill would afford egg producers the opportunity to express themselves. yea or nay. on an ecoic program to help to provide ecoic stability to their industry. because every one of the 50 states produces eggs in significant quantities. this measure is important to constituents of every one of the senators present on this floor. eggs are the product of highest farm value in the poultry complex. poultry and egg production in 1965 was worth $3.6 billion in the 50 states. with onehalf of that sum attributable directly to eggs. and the remainder divided among broilers. turkeys. and other poultry. although the egg is a basic item in the american diet. over the past 10 years its price has gradually declined to the extent that average returns to producers in my stateand i dare say in other states as wellhave failed to reach a level consistent with what we like to describe as the american standard of living. despite an efficiency that has steadily pushed up average egg production per hen. and the average number of layers tended per family. new jersey egg farmers--and familytype egg producers in other states as wellhave  been able to match the incomes of farmers who have had the protection of ecoic programs to help their commodities achieve a reasonable price in the market. thus. we have had the situation of an efficient producer. producing a desirable food which is accepted as a staple item of diet. being confronted by a generally decliningand unsatisfactoryincome situation. this situationfor which i will supply details in a momenthas one feature which makes my bill exceedingly timely. by a fortunate circumstance for which there is adequate explanation. egg prices in december were almost 7 cents per dozen above the average of the six preceding decembers195964. this means that todayand perhaps for the next 6 monthsegg producers can review their situation without. at the same time. being subject to the strains and upsets and temptations toward snap judgment that occur when the returns from egg production barely cover feed costs. let alone other production costs as has periodically been the case at intervals during the past 10 years. as evidence of the need to establish improved terms of trade for the familytype egg producer. i submit the following data. all taken from official statistical sources in the department of agriculture: annual average price income of representa- efficiency factors. new jersey egg received for eggs. per tive new jersey egg producer dozen producer year represent- net farm capital eggs pro- average u.s. ative new net cash income in- investment duced per number of farmers jersey farm farmincome cluding per- jan. 1 layer layers in quisites flock (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) cents cents thousands 1955 ---------------------- 39.5 44 $1.701 $3.860 $39 189 3.744 1956 ----------------------- 39.3 41 1.249 3.371 41 192 3.965 1957 ----------------------- 3 5.9 39 542 2.462 41 195 3.908 1958 ----------------------- 38.5 40 1.406 3.285 42 194 4.118 1959 ----------------------- 31.4 33 -2.179 -523 43 196 4.214 1960 ----------------------- 36. 0 39 3.413 5.158 43 193 4.193 1961 ----------------------- 35.5 37 3.339 4.959 45 194 4.514 1962 ---------------------- 33.6 35 1.466 2.433 45 192 4.646 1963 ----------------------- 34. 4 34 1.038 2.093 44 196 4.696 1964 ---------------------- 33.8 33 1.296 2.470 45 199 4.718 1965 (preliminary) --------- 33. 5 (i) (i) 2.723 46 (1) (1) i  available. in summary. despite an egg price generally higher than the u.s. average. a rising rate of lay per layer. and increasing flock size. the typical egg producers income has been slipping. and in 1965including return on capitalhe earned less than the accepted $3.000 figure which is supposed to indicate. the edge of the poverty level. there is further significance in the fact thatin a group of eight representative farms for which the department of agriculture publishes 1965 financial synthesisthe egg farm had the lowest returns. as measured by this series. "farm cost situation." 1966 outlook issue. pages 41. 42: preliminary 1965 data type and location of farm net total farm farm income capital dairy (grade a). eastern wisconhin----------------------------- $7.535 $75.530 hogbeef fattening. corn belt. 13.984 132.980 tobacco. coastal plain th carolina ---------------------6. 204 43. 570 cotton. largescale. mississippi delta --------------------------- 30.148 316. 540 egg. new jersey ----------------- 2.723 46. 150 cattle. intermountain region. 9.542 90.530 wheatsmall grainlivestock. thern plains -------------- 11.716 63.630 winter wheat. southern plains. - 10.748 118.770 of this cross section of farm. it is eworthy that  only is the egg farm the lowest in income. but also it is one of the few that is inent of any federal income support through commoditytype agricultural stabilization programs. my proposed legislation does  specify what type of stabilization programif anythe egg industry should adopt. i do  want to prescribe that. rather. under my legislation. the secretary of agriculture would be directed to hold hearings and consider testimony recommending means by which a reasonable opportunity toward earning adequate income could be opened to egg producers. simply to establish this opportunity is the purpose of my bill. ecoic program is specified in the bill. appropriation. or authorization of an appropriation. is specified. but the opportunity for hearing and for balloting is specified. and within the industry there is both the ingenuity to suggest programs. and the wisdom to separate the wheat from the chaff among those suggestions. so that the ecoic prospect of the industry can be brought more nearly in line with its accomplishments in productivity. because the industry is still groping for a satisfactory ecoic program or policy. it behooves all interested parties to join in attempts to develop a satisfactory mode of operation. if the hearings fall to develop practical stabilization methods for egg producers. then opposition will be justified at that timebut in a referendum on the issues.  in a gag on an inquiry or on a search for a way to keep the family egg producer a viable ecoic entity. the legislation i am proposing is simply enabling legislation to permit egg producers to express themselves regarding their ecoic future.
farm income. it is my recollection. has gone up from $9.000.000.000 per year before the war to over $30.000.000.000 per year currently. so you can blame city representatives from raising these questions. while the wages of factory workers have about doubled in the same period. city people want a good ecoic basis for farm people and will support reasonable farm programs. they do . however. want the relationship to get entirely out of hand between city income and farmproduct prices.
. i would like to state for myself why i have taken this position with respect to agricultural bills. i hope very much that the members from the cities. and this is very important to them. will listen. the general idea here seems to be that all matters affecting agriculture are the business only of those who represent rural areas or those who are members of the committee on agriculture. i do  think anything else could be further from what is right for members of the congress. and if we needed any proof of it. here is the proof. the fact is that the bureau of labor statistics. which makes the consumers price index  shows for may 15. which is the last figure. that the index for food prices has climbed to 230.8 which is almost the high which was reached between ember 1951 and january 1952. and that the food price index far outstrips the index for everything which is at 189. again close to the high mark. anyone who has analyzed food costs in his own community will realize that food costs have generally gone up an average of onethird more than price increases across the board of everything else which enters into the cost of living. business has gotten bad in the big cities in soft goods. because the people say they do  have the money to pay for their food and the taxes which are necessarily being levied in connection with the defense mobilization program. all i say about these farm price parities and farm price floors is that there has to be an adversary proceeding. somebody has to have an interest which will test out whether these increases in the guaranties and price flows for agricultural commodities are right or wrong. they can be permitted to go by default. they can be permitted to go by consent. the farm people themselves do  want it that way. two of the great national organizations in the farm field. the national grange and the american farm bureau federation. have recorded themselves as being against h. r. 8122 on which a rule has been granted. it is an oversimplification to think that everybody can get a cut at will out of this ecoic pie. that is. if food prices go up. then wages will go up. and the thing will equalize itself. the farmer has got into a squeeze on that. because in 1951 he had the highest total gross income he had ever had. $37.000.000.000. yet his net was $3.000.000.000 lower than it was in 1947-$14.000.00.000 against $17.000.000.000. the answer is that this kind of situation is catching up with him and his costs are taking away from him what he gains by the higher guaranties of the farm price program. . there are many millions of people in our country who are pure consumersgovernment workers. social security beneficiaries. veterans on pension and their families. and many who live on savings and annuities.  egh of us seem to realize that. they can get their cut out of any increase in wages or salaries or prices in order to make up what they pay in inflationary prices for food and other items. to these are to be added millions of factory workers. white collar whose salaries lag behind the cost of living. then. too. all other workers are caught in the squeeze of rising prices and taxes to eat up rising wages. all these need the protection for which i am contending.-
. i approach this whole question with the greatest deference. i do  pretend to be an expert in this field. i say only that i think for too long we have gone along with the farm program without any scrutiny from the adversary point of view. the men on the committee on agriculture are good men. they are all friends of ours. they are essentially from agricultural districts. but they do  actually come up against the problems we have in the cities where people have to earn a living in which food represents a very large proportion of the city persons budget. first let us get an idea as to the question of who is involved. in the first place we are prone to think that we can make rapid adjustments. that if prices go up wages will rise. that the working people will try to get more in wages and that the whole ecoy will equalize itself out. as a matter of fact. that is  so. because a very large number of americans are almost pure consumers. and i have figures that illustrate that. there are 4.500.000 social security annuitants in the united states. there are 6.000.000 government workers whose salaries adjust but very slowly to rapidly rising costs of living. i tried very hard to get an estimate as to the number who were living on incomes such as widows. orphans. and older people who have their own savings or annuities from life insurance companies. but it is almost impossible to obtain such information. it is a large figure. in millions to say the least. added to that would be 2.500.000 who receive benefits from veterans pension and insurance legislation. twentyfive million out of 61.000.000 actively employed in the united states who are socalled white collar workers. and we k that their salaries lag behind the more rapidly adjustable wages of the industrial workers most of whom are represented by unions. i think there is one very good reason for  passing this bill. that is. it is unnecessary right  to pass this bill. this statement i make advisedly for this reason: the bill has two parts. first. it proposes to perpetuate the alternative of using the new modernized parity formula or the old 191014 parity. whichever is higherand i will explain in a few minutes why that is a serious matterfor 2 years beyond december 31. 1953. you do  have to do that . there will be a new congress here next year and there will be a full year in which to do it. second. fixing parity at 90 percent of the six basic commodities is also unnecessary . we made that clear just last saturday night when we passed the defense production act which says that if there shall be only 90 percent of parity and  less for the basic commodities for the full length of time the defense production act is in effect. which is 10 months. so both things have been taken care of until such time as the new congress returns. and there is real urgency for this bill. as to the merits of the proposition. my colleague from massachusetts has pointed out that the farmers themselves in two great farm organizations. do  regard this as an unmixed blessing because two of the greatest of them. the american farm bureau and the national grange. are against this very bill. i think that is of the greatest importance.
. i think what i was hopeful of before has happened. those who are supporting this bill are being required to put forward all their arguments. it is very obvious what will happen to those affected. the consumer in the cities and the farmer on the farm will both be doing some thinking about the fundamental thesis which is being expressed here. a very dangerous argument. in my view. is the argument that the 90 percent of parity support is going to be an incentive to production. i say. with all deference to my friends who represent the rural areas. that is a twopronged argument. as far as they are concerned. i can see the fight on this in terms of a basic guaranteed floor to the farmer to prevent price collapse. but when one talks about a production incentive. just begin to think about the storm which was created here when the gentleman who is  secretary of agriculture brought out a plan which bears his name which was interred. as i remember it. inshort order with loud howls. yet any idea of stimulating production by giving some kind of a guaranty of production payment is strangely reminiscent of that situation. let me show you what has happened to the farmer. which i think is very important. because he is still a basic consumer in this country. i am  unmindful of the fact that we eat what he raises and he wears what we make. the farmer of 1951 is having the largest gross receipts which he has had in all the postwar years. $37.404.000.000. but what does he have left. fourteer billion nine hundred and twentynine milion dollars. over two billion dollars less than he had in 1947. which was about his best net income years. in other words. the inflationary spiral which is created by increasing food prices. which for the short range looks fine. when you are getting large supports. begins to militate against the farmer when the prices on the things he buys go up as well. the last point is this. and i think this is what is worrying many of the -people in the cities: we are dealing with a lot of farmers to whom this 90 percent of parity support is important and basic. but we are dealing also with some bigscale operators to whom this 90 percent means simply the basis for a windfall of money beyond the proper operations of their abilities and of the market. i think that very clearly explains the worry a lot of people are having. especially those who are consuming these products in the cities.
. this is the first secretary of agriculture in some timeincluding the previous administrationswho bore in mind that there are  only people who make butter. but who consume butter. i think he is to be congratulated upon what he has done. i think he is trying to see to it. in the interest of the consumer. to give him a break. and i urge the great committee on agriculture to think of the consumer. too. in addition. the secretary of agriculture has understood the complete fallacy under which we are operating today with surpluses piling up and with $6.75 billion of government money invested in them. and farm income at one and the same time falling. there must be something wrong somewhere. and it is the very scheme that has brought about this situation. this high fixed 90 percent of parity price support for milk products. so it must be wrong somewhere. too. and there is use continuing an error which is hurting the farmer and hurting the consumer and yet that is what the 90 percent of parity price support people want to do.
s assurance which he gave at the farmplowing contest--i think it was in minnesotaabout full .parity for farm products in the market place. meant that it would show in the farmers net income.  by a government high fixed farmsupport program. if the republican approach is really going to be to use 100percent parity in the terms of the real income which the farmer gets. then i say that is an honest program both to the consumer who as a worker profits from a prosperous agriculture and to the farmer himself. i am only talking to the substantive merits of the question. the way the matter stands  it is high time people in the socalled farm bloc recognized farmers as political adults just as they pick us to be who represent city consumers. until you have that situation you are going to have unbalanced.  good. farm legislation.
i think the gentleman begs the question. and for this reason: the whole theory of flexible parity is that it will adjust what is produced better to the demands of the market. a high fixedprice parity does  give that adjustment and results in high government stocks. high prices. and lower farm net income at one and the same time.
oh.  seventyfive percent to ninety percent. i would like to emphasize this. i am for this program of flexible parity. i am  for eliminating all farm price supports. i think the farmer in the present state of our country needs some help from the government. the only question is. how will this help be adjusted to be reasonable. i think what has happened on the decrease in the butter price demonstrates exactly what the potentialities in flexible parity are for the city consumer. there is a certain mythology that has been built up about a farmerlabor combination. but it is really mythology. it seems to me. and is collapsing all around us. and the only people holding it up are they who continue to persist in believing in it despite the evidence. because insofar as international trade is concerned. insofar as housing is concerned. insofar as unemployment insurance and health insurance are concerned. cooperation between citizens of like mind from the farm or city is fine and potent but the idea of a farmerlabor combination to effect these measures because they are farmers and workingmen has just  happened. do my city colleagues feel that it is incumbent upon them to abandon the ecoic interest that they represent at direct cost to the city consumers. e of us argues that farm income should go down. on the contrary. we are arguing that it should go up. and let me point out why. you would think that there is a limitation upon the food which can be consumed by our people. that is  so at all. the average urban family eats about 2.4 pounds of meat per person per week. but 1 family out of 5 in that same year ate less than 11/2 pounds per week. three city families out of ten consume less than a pint of milk per person per day. thirty percent of the families in our country were using fewer than five eggs per person per week. american industry has grownall of these gentlemen who spoke have so statedemously in production. why. because it has instituted the principle of mass production for a mass market earning high wages and salaries. that is what you have got to get in the farming field. farming today is industry. i would be arguing here devotedly for $500 million a year to help the farmer mechanize. to give him more research and otherwise to make him just as efficient as the best industrial plant in the united states. that makes sense. but running billions of dollars down the drain of acquiring emous surpluses that are choking us and running out of our ears and that are growing like a frankenstein. that makes sense at all. we must take measures to deal with the flood and flexible  rigid supports for farm prices is such a measure.
. today the migratory labor subcommittee of the senate labor and public welfare committee began hearings on a comprehensive. progressive and realistic legislative program which i commend to the attention of the congress. as a member of that subcommittee i want to express my respects for the job which senator wiliams of new jersey has already done and is  doing as the chairman of the subcommittee. it is an ambitious programl bills aimed at a broad spectrum of social. educational and ecoic problems in the migratory labor areaand it is a program that will and quite properly should provoke honest debate. reasonable differences of opinion and assertions of varying selfinterests. thus. for example. the plight of the migratory farm worker and his family in many sections of the country is a disgrace to the whole american community. but in many states and localities farmers and growers are most responsive to the needs of the migratory workers they employ. and state and local governments have enacted many progressive measures which help both employer and employee. my own state of new york has been a leader in this direction. and most segments of interest in our states agricultural ecoy. including church and civic organizations. are facing up to problems realistically and acting responsibly to solve them. yet there is a need here for a national programto supplement where state and local interests are already acting. to step in and lead where there is responsible state or local force at work. to act where it is beyond the authority or jurisdiction of state and local interests. i believe the subcommittees legislative program for this congress promises to meet in large measure this national need. of particular interest. in this connection. is s. 1129 sponsored by senator williams and seven others of us. to provide an improved program of farm labor recruitment and transportation for the purpose of coordinating at an interstate level through the secretary of labor the demand for reliable workers with the available labor supply. the proposal also recognizes the need for a skilled. highly trained farm work force. it authorizes pilot projects for the training of farm workers in the increasing number of skills needed for modern farm work. senator williams began to develop this idea at the second annual conference of families who follow the crops. in san jose. calif.. on october 24. 1960. in presenting the proposal to the conference. he said: we  believe that we should perhaps think in terms of a program that would  only help develop a stabilized work force. but one which would also make certain that we will be prepared for the future when we are able to rely less and less on the migrant and more on a local. dependable. skilled work force. senator williams discussed the idea in more detail at the national farm labor conference in cincinnati. ohio. on february 7. 1961. i ask unanimous consent to insert in the record at this point in my remarks a portion of senator williams remarks at the farm labor conference in cincinnati in february 1961. as well as an excerpt from the new york times of april 6 on the subject of "hard core unemployment in farm areas."
finally. . i should like to make a brief statement concerning the pending bill. so far as our position in new york is concerned. new york is the second leading dairy producer in the united states. so it is important that certain thoughts be expressed with regard to the pending bill. the problem of establishing a real consensus of view among dairy farmers and consumersbecause new york is a state with a great number of consumers--on a bill with relation to the marketing of milk is a very real one. in order to determine whether there was a real consensus among new york dairy farmers. the bipartisan steering committee of the new york congressional delegation wrote to a number of the leading new york farm organizations and dairy cooperatives requesting their opinion on federal legislation. i am quite gratified to be able to report that the leaders in the dairy industry in our state have been cooperative and responsive in providing the steering committee with their views. the results of this inquiry show that a strong consensus of opinion in support of a single bill is  capable of ascertainment in our state. there is still a strong feeling in new york that dairy farmers ought to be left to solve their problems themselves and that federal legislation regulating agricultural production through quotas and high fixed price supports should be avoided. there is a strong sentiment in new york state in opposition to the use of production allotments or quotas. as provided in the pending bill. and a belief that the free market system is the more effective instrument for reducing farm surpluses. i have long believed in the objectives of a farm program which would insure adequate income to fluid milk and manufacturing milk producers. would reduce the staggering cost of the dairy program to the federal government. would reduce existing inventories of agricultural surpluses. and would encourage progress toward more efficient production and marketing. the pending bill would establish a program keyed to a class i or base excess plan. under secretary of agriculture charles murphy. in testifying before the senate committee on agriculture and forestry on april 3. explained the operation of the base excess plan by stating that it proposed to remove an incentive for increased production which the existing marketing orders. using a blend price. created. thus. for his allotment the producer would receive his share of the amount required to be paid for milk needed for fluid use plus an adequate reserve. and for his excess milk would receive the lowest class price. there are at present 37 current marketing orders which contain "base excess" provisions and which provide for the calculation of new bases each year. however. in view of existing figures on production and net income. it would appear difficult for us in new york to justify the position that such a plan would be an answer to a major lessening of the excess production. before the committee on agriculture and forestry. there was conflicting testimony as to whether such a plan could effectively accomplish its primary objective. namely. to significantly reduce milk production. testimony was received that the establishment of a base excess plan would  substantially reduce production in fluid milk order markets. the apparent small impact which a base excess plan would have on the reduction of surpluses was clearly pointed out in a table prepared by the department of agriculture contained in the committee report. it indicates that the estimated milk production under the bill would be 124.9 billion pounds. whereas in the 196364 marketing year production amounted to 125.5 billion pounds. the reduction would be only 600 million pounds. in any event. dairymen will continue to produce milk as long as the lowest class price is sufficiently high to help pay for fixed costs of production. moreover. the question of increased farm income is also left unsettled. with respect to the base excess plan contained in certain other bills upon which the senate committee on agriculture and forestry held hearings earlier this year. under secretary charles murphy testified before the committee on april 3 that under a base excess plan without payment the net income of farmers would be reduced $47 million from the 196364 marketing year level. while the department of agriculture indicated that establishment of the plan incorporated in the bill before the senate would result in an increase in net producer income of $7 million from the 196384 marketing figures. it seems unlikely that producers in new york would approve such a plan under their referendum unless it was proved beyond much doubt that the plan was ecoically preferable to the terms of the existing market order. the uncertainty of the bills effect upon the reduction of surpluses and the uncertainty as to whether it would improve the income of dairy farmers has been highlighted by secretary of agriculture freemans statement in the departments report on the measure. in which he recognized the limitations of the measure. he said: we believe a class i base plan such as incorporated in proposal s. 1915 might achieve some improvement in the income position of some fluid milk producers. and we perceive objection to it as far as it goes. at the same time. should legislation provide only class i base plans in federal orders. the results would be so limited that neither the necessary reduction in total national milk production  the much needed improvement in total dairy income would be achieved. the establishment of production controls and quotas should be viewed in the light of the precedent which last mays national wheat referendum created. this referendum established that the farmers of this countrycertainly the wheat farmersare strongly opposed to federal production controls and to federal supply management programs. i believe we ought to consider this lesson. drawn -from the feed. grain area. as equally applicable to the dairy industry in new york. moreover. we must be conscious of the fact that increased prices for class i fluid milk which will undoubtedly result from the establishment of a program as contemplated by this legislation may well result in higher costs to the consumers and therefore ultimately reduce consumption of fluid milk. in new york i have done my utmost to listen carefully to what the dairymen themselves desire. and hence have been in close touch with the effort of the steering committee of the new york congressional delegation of which i am a member to obtain a consensus of opinion on the bill. we could  obtain this. i look forward to some program on which there can be a clear consensus of opinion. i have received strong communications. however. to the effect that at this time. the dairy industry. in new york prefers to operate under the present federal milk marketing orders. subject only to necessary adjustments in such orders. the sentiment of the new york dairymen as reflected in letters to the new york steering committee and in heavy mail to my office indicates a firm faith. in free market enterprise and a belief that competition rather than restrictive federal regulation of production meets their farm problems. as i have said. i have tried to pay the strictest attention to what the dairy farmers in my state desire. i also have very deeply at heart the consumer problem. i appreciate very much that the principal sponsor of the bill. the senator from wisconsin . has tried to find a program that he thought would be appealing . i say to him that there are some farm groups in my state that are for the program. but a consensus in favor of the bill does  exist. i would welcome any such consensus upon a dairy program and look forward to its realization. on the basis of careful study. i feel it my duty to vote against the bill.
subsequently said: . in 1959. during the 1st session of the 86th congress. i introduced with senator keating. s. 1778. a bill modeled after the new york state law to require the registration of those who act as contractors for migratory farm laborers. at long last. this congress will  enact such legislation. i am particularly pleased that this measure was passed in the other body by so wide a margin. 343 to 7. during 1963 some 400.000 domestic farmworkers traveled to take jobs beyond commuting distance of their homes. more than 150.000 of these moved from one state to aher in search of employment. in the state of new york more than 20.000 domestic migratory agricultural workers were employed during the peak agricultural employment period. which comprised more than half of the total seasonal agricultural labor force of 35.000 required by new york agriculture. this is legislation designed to protect these workers. to obtain registration. the prospective contractor must certify that he will meet certain specified minimum standards of operation in regard to wages. housing. working conditions. periods of employment. and transportation. most other employment has a degree of stability as far as residence is concerned. a certain continuity of employment and income security. but the migratory worker is  always sure of what work will be available from day to day. the length of time he will be in a given area. and the income which may be realized. consequently. he depends very heavily on those who arrange employment for him and negotiate for him the terms of his employment. new york has had legislation such as this on its books for several years. its record of enforcement bears out the need for federal legislation of this type applicable to all the states which rely on mi:gratory farm labor. approximately 400 -crew leaders applied for certificates of registration in new york during 1963. of these. 26 were refused certification. apparently because of criminal records. this legislation will benefit  only the migratory workers recruited by farm .labor contractors. but also prospective employers and reputable farm labor contractors who perform a valuable service in american agriculture. during this congress. action has been taken. which i supported. to provide for the expiration of the mexican farm labor program. the legislation  being enacted. the farm labor contractor registration act. gives the department of labor the means to expand employment .opportunities for domestic workers and to assure them increased income. and at the same time to make available adequate numbers of competent employees to relieve any difficult situations which may develop as a result of the expiration of the mexican farm labor program. in september 1962. the migrant health act became law. to assist the establishment of state health facilities for migratory farm workers. just days ago the congress passed the housing act of 1964. containing additional programs designed to improve housing for such workers. and the ecoic opportunity act. signed into law yesterday. contains generous provisions for the development of programs of education. day care services. and sanitation which will be available to migratory farm laborers. i welcome these steps and join with senator williams. the chairman of the senate subcommittee on migratory labor. of which i am a member. in expressing gratification for the efforts which have been made to have these steps taken.
. in october 1963. when this question was first considered. i voted against the proxmire plan. i intend to vote against it again today. my reasons today have been very well stated by the senator from vermont . as a senator from new york. the second largest producer of class i fluid milk in the country. i have had a special concern and deep interest in the provisions of this amendment. along with almost all other senators on both sides of the aisle from the theastern portion of the country i voted against this proposal in the form of s. 1915 on october 10. 1963. the amendment would establish a class i base for each dairy producer in a federal order market and would enable the producer to receive a higher price for milk consumed in fluid form on a specified quantity of his production in lieu of a blended price on total production used for fluid consumption and for manufacturing into butter. cheese. powdered milk and other milk products. excess production would be priced at a lower price to encourage reduced production. the dairy farmers in my state are very much divided with respect to this proposal. of the four largest organizations. two favor the base excess plan proposal and two strongly oppose it. there appears to be equally marked lack of consensus behind the bill nationally. the administration expressly did  include any diary plan in its farm message this year and has  enthusiastically supported any proposal. on april 5. 1965. clarence girard. deputy administrator. regulatory programs. consumer and marketing service of the department of agriculture. testified before the subcommittee on dairy and poultry of the house agriculture committee thatthere is substantial disagreement within the dairy industry itself as to what sort of legislation they would support * * * and we have  been able to get general substantial agreement among the industry representatives on any particular proposed legislation. mr. girard also testified: we believe this improvement in income position of some fluid milk producers can be achieved without adversely affecting the income of other dairy farmers. he stated that favorable action on a base excess proposal such as s. 1915 "would represent a small step toward an improved dairy program." this is hardly the type of support that one would hope for a major agricultural program costing the federal government approximately $360 million per year. in 1963 under secretary of agriculture murphy testified before the senate committee that the base excess proposal. without the assistance of a direct payment plan. would be of little help to dairymen. i am most sympathetic over the serious need for improving the income of our dairymen. with sustained drought conditions and prolonged burdens of increased production costs. the dairyman in the theast has sustained a heavy burden. i have tried to ease this burden by working to obtain feed grains at reduced prices from the department of agriculture and haying and grazing privileges on land taken out of production. i have worked to obtain the departments consideration of emergency price adjustments for hard pressed areas. the department of agriculture has provided important aid in many of these areas. however. i do  believe it is in the best interest of our dairymen or the consumer to impose tight production quotas on them. the curtailment of productive incentive for a sustained period will  in my judgment provide the best method of improving dairy income. the imposition of production quotas based on periods of past production places regulation on the producers which may prove very disadvantageous. with each marketing order being voted on. by bloc vote rather than individual voting. it is possible that certain parts of the country will be regulated by tight production quotas while other areas will . it is also possible that under the referendums provisions which do  permit voting by the individual membership that production quotas may be set by one group in approving an order and imposed upon aher in the miity. the imposition of a production limitation upon one dairyman by his fellow dairyman is a situation raising many questions as desirability. the senate agriculture committee by .an overwhelming vote chose to eliminate the base excess plan from the farm bill. this decision reflects the views of a very substantial number of dairymen in the theast. senators from the theast area reflected this attitude in october 1963 when the base excess plan was acted upon by the senate. i believe they will reflect this view again today.
of course. i join. as the senator said just a few minutes ago. with him and other senators. but the senator mentioned percentage figures. and i am sure he will agree that the percentages should relate to the actual numbered figures. as i understand it. 2 percent of the farm employers represents 23.000 employers and 20 percent of the farmworkers represents .276.000 workers. . i ask unanimous consent that a study made by the department of labor may be utilized in this respect by being printed in the record at the conclusion of my remarks.
. i heard senator church. and one could question a man of greater good will. ho. and personal probity than frank church. of idaho. say. "we will  appropriate sufficient money to cover the inspections needed." et cetera. it seems to me that that is  a very credible way to legislate. it is a terrible way to legislate on our part. so i beg members. withstanding the feeling about osha. to remember. first. that it is blood. bone. and sinew that we are talking about and the blighting of lives of very poor and mostly very unfortunate people. second. farming is a very hazardous business. as is shown by the toll which farming takes. and. third. this was a long fought over and long sought reform which american labor finally realized. and we should  be careless or callous egh to throw it away because it is uncomfortable or inconvenient or particular farm proprietors are made unhappy by it without understanding the consequences and what is really at stake. i hope we will  adopt any policy except that outlined by senator durkin. which i think is perfectly fair and. in all honesty and without being doctrinaire about it. i think that is the way we ought to leave it.
. we have voted for irrigation. we have voted billions for dams. we have voted billions for farm price supports. i have voted for them time and time again. hoping that by this expression of understanding we would get reciprocation. sometimes we have. but very. very rarely.  we are in deep. deep trouble. that is why we have this bill before us. the title of this bill is  a public works bill. the title of this bill is the public works employment act. to relieve the severity of unemployment and the fact that the states whose backs are being broken can pay the tab. that is what this is all about. otherwise. there is reason for it. we have public works bills. a lot of them. and a lot of other ongoing programs. this is specially defined for us. yet. by an attitude which counts these percentages. as abe ribxcoff so properly said. the purpose of the bill could be cheated if an amendment like this carried. senator bentsen made a very good point it is simply because we face stark reality and we are in such terrible trouble that we have to compromise. we have choice. it is as simple and plain as that. it gives me satisfaction whatever. it is for those reasons that i hope very much that the senate. realizing the purpose of this bill. will support its purpose. which is to relieve precisely what we are up against. and by this formula it is precisely defeated.
