. last night i received a message from the first district of massachusetts that there are available for immediate use 7.000.000 pounds of surplus potatoes. this morning i asked the department of agriculture. through the bureau of home nutrition and home ecoics. to advise me what the average consumption of white potatoes is per week for an average family. in studying 68 cities in the spring of 1948 they found the average consumption to be 6.7 pounds per family per week or 348.4 pounds per year. using round numbers. the amount of surplus potatoes available in the connecticut valley area would feed 20.000 average families for a full year. yet. that is only a small fraction of the 50.000.000 bushels. or 3.000.000.000 pounds. that have been ordered to be destroyed. i do  k whether any of you saw the article that appeared in the last part of the post this morning. but it is very interesting. it was from the district line. by bill gold. the headline was "uncle sam holds sackcanadians help fill it with potatoes." the article is: while the agriculture department wonders how to get rid of its tons of surplus potatoes. canadian growers are smuggling in thousands of bushels which theyre selling to uncle sam. at his artificially high prices. the problem calls for clear thinking and fast action. or first thing you k well be subsidizing canadas output. too. the thing to do is to beat them at their own game. lets smuggle american potatoes into canada at a faster rate than theyre smuggling their potatoes into the united states. organize a new airlift. and dump the spuds overboard in sparsely populated regions. reverse the ca pipe line. and pump through a river of mashed potatoes. bribe border guards. put our old time rum runners to work on this patriotic project. lets show the world that anybody who underestimates american ingenuity for wasting money makes a big mistake. this last paragraph was emphasized by being italicized. as well it should have been. i  insert a news story from washington from the newspaper enterprise association. by douglas larsen. appearing in the berkshire evening eagle. pittsfield. mass.. last friday. its headline. "spudlegging adds surplus woes." the article is as follows: washington.-the unique crime of "spudlegging" has been added to the department of agricultures woes of this years potatosurplus fiasco. untold thousands of bushels of potatoes are being smuggled across lonely stretches of the maine border. by avoiding the duty and taking advantage of the highsupport price in this country. illegal operators are making from 30 to 45 cents a bushel. if this traffic isnt controlled. agriculture officials admit it might mean that the net cost of the spud surplus will be higher than the $100.000.000 top estimate made by secretary charles f. brannan.
. i rise in support of the amendment. of which i have the ho to be a cosponsor. i believe that the necessity for the amendment arises from what may properly be called de facto segregation. perhaps the situation which we find in places like albany. ga.. is the best example of that. when we look into these situations and take the cover off them. we find that what is supposedly provided by our national statutes as representing lawful management does  necessarily obtain in practice. senators will recall that i have tried on previous occasions to reach the archaic rule in the hillburton act. under which federal funds are granted to hospitals which are in essence segregated establishments because of the archaic definition in the law respecting separate but equal facilities. although the federal government and everyone else ks that that definition would  stand up for 5 minutes in a court of law. that the supreme court has decided precisely to the contrary. and that the concept of separate but equal facilities is unconstitutional. etheless. the government continues to issue regulations in hospital situations premised upon the separate but equal idea. there is such a thing as local custom. which is pertinent to this amendment. the quality and nature of social organization. as one of our members is wont to call it. is such that the community tolerates segregation. which is contrary to the constitution. but is  expressly contrary to any law. a lawsuit may be started. which is a very expensive and tough undertaking. therefore. the amendment which the senator from new york is sponsoring and in which many of us join. should be adopted. it will be remembered that i had a similar fight with respect to segregation at. airport terminals. in which a couple of years were required before the practice caught up with the law. again. because the law did  specifically spell out in so many words what is sought to be spelled out here. the new approach involves the idea of recreation areas which are developed from reserve lands. as conducive to the development of a more mature and more advisable farm program. in my view. it is important that when a new program is started. the de facto segregation and customs of local communities should be laid aside and we should return to the fundamental proposals involved. in connection with the bill. about which there has been some discussion in the government operations committee. of which i am a member. specific instances and examples have been cited in which- for years. in national parks and national forests in southern states segregation has been practiced de facto. indicating that unless there is a specific regulation on the subject we get into difficulties. examples go back to 1959 and 1960. they are very specific with respect to what took place at places like chattahoochee national forest in georgia. the de soto national park in mississippi. and a naval housing reservation in folk. va. these are specific examples of de facto segregation being practiced. it is clear to me that there is good reason for an amendment of this character. spelling out in precise terms what we have in mind in creating a national benefit through a new park. we should see to it that the situation of which we may later properly complain may be avoided. because we state what we mean. what we intend. and what we desire. without any sense or doubt about it. and without letting local customs prevail for years and years. and without the requirement that there be lawsuits or battles on the floor of the senate to bring about our manifest intention in the law. so anticipating the argument which is at the root of the motion to tableand i say this with all respect to the majority leader. i understand his problemnamely. that the federal government. through the federal departments. will administer lands of this character in a discriminatory way. it has been our experience that in every case. unless provision is made in unmistakable terms. and there is a law to tie to. there will be compliance. we have sought to amend appropriation bills. but have been unable to do so because our proposals are considered to be substantive law.  we have an opportunity to legislate in accordance with what i deem to be the views of the overwhelming majority of this body. if the motion to table prevails. it will carry. in my view.  in accord with the best judgment on this issue. whatever may be the overriding considerations as to the farm bill. in my judgment. a motion to table. if carried. would  be in accordance with the views expressed time and time again by a majority of the members of this body. i hope we will be true to ourselves on this subject and take the opportunity offered to us by this amendment to vote to reject the motion to table. and support the amendment.
