i should like to say to the distinguished senator that i encounter fellow senators who say. "im all for your plan except i dont like the tax cut." or. "i am all for your plan except i dont like that change in the consumer price index." or. "thats an excellent plan. but the medicare number isnt the one i like." . my question to the senator from louisiana is. what other vehicle is going to be presented that fixes these problems. if they do  accept our proposal. the proposal of the distinguished senator from louisiana and i and this wonderful group of bipartisan senators working with us. if they do  like that. what else has a chance at being enacted that is going to balance this budget.  only at the end of the seventh year but in the outyears as well.
i am sorry. the story states that the senate commerce committee expects to finish its work on the public accommodations bill today. it also states: the chairman. senator warren g. magnuson. democrat. of washington. said the senate might then use it as the vehicle for a general civil rights debate. without waiting for the house to act. but the majority leader. mike mansfield. of montana. threw cold water on this idea. he said taking up civil rights with firm agreement on only one part of the bill would open the way to innumerable amendments and endless debate. thus. the prospect still is that the house will act first and that its bill will be intercepted when it reaches the senate. the outlook is for a senate civil rights debate that will go on until christmas eve--and possibly longer. the magnuson approach. as indicated by the article. is what i have long been contending for. and the senator from montana has been steadfast in his view that the way to do it is to intercept the house bill. i was giving my opinion that this would cost 4 more weeks in debate than if the senate took the commerce committee bill. i was also referring to the rumor that the white house has adopted the view that the civil rights bill should precede consideration of the tax bill. i agree with that view. and i was giving my reasons. in terms of domestic tranquility. which i think is occasioned by the delay in dealing with the civil rights issue by congress. why i thought the magnuson prescription was the right one.
