. i invite the attention of my colleagues to this very interesting bill. which will provide u.s. citizenship for certain employees of the free europe committee who because of residence requirements have  been able to be naturalized. my bill provides that any person who has been employed continuously for  less than 5 years by the free europe committee and has had  less than 6 months residence in the united states may be naturalized upon compliance with all the requirements of title iii of the immigration and naturalization act except physical residence. radio free europe was organized in 1949 by americans impelled by the idea that the best way to overcome communist propaganda in the satellite countries behind the iron curtain was to get exiles from those countries to broadcast the message of freedom to the people back home. i have actually seen this operation at munich and other places. today radio free europe is an independent broadcasting network operating 28 transmitters in europe on medium and shortwaves capable of penetrating behind the iron curtain in spite of communist jamming. its operations are supported by contributions from americans. and the headquarters of the free europe committee. which is the parent organization. are in new york city. it is an absolutely free. private organization. the hundreds of men and women who make up its staff of broadcasters. writers. pamphleteers. analysts. and researchers are exiles and refugees from the lands to which they broadcast. many of them persons of considerable stature and achievement. i k many of them personally. among them are former prime ministers and other government officials. diplomats. jurists. scholars and journalists--people of considerable talent and ability who have firsthand kledge of communists aims and how to fight them. these men and women. though stateless. are true soldiers of freedom. and i believe that we should facilitate the process by which they may become citizens when they want to do so. thus far this has been impossible for them primarily because they can meet the continuous residence requirement by reason of the fact that they must work in europe. during world war ii. the lodge act of 1950 made it possible for aliens serving in the u.s. army to become citizens of the united states. because the members of radio free europe are less soldiers for the reason that they are fighting in the cold war. i am introducing an amendment to the immigration and nationality act which makes it possible for them to become american citizens. i commend the bill for very early consideration by the judiciary committee. and for enactment into law.
. the celebration of captive nations week expresses the determination of this government to keep alive the hope of freedom in the hearts of the captive peoples of eastern europe. communist tyranny has enslaved millions of europeans for two decades. one regrets more than i the necessity for a captive nations week. yet until national independence is restored to these east european countries. the american people will continue to take the opportunity every year to publicly recommit ourselves and our nation to a policy whose ultimate goal is the restoration of human freedom. the united states has been founded on principles of independence. personal liberty. and human dignitythose very principles  denied our friends. and relatives in eastern europe. indeed. many of those who helped found these principles in america are heroes of  captive nationsheroes as illustrious as kosciusko and pulaski. the united states thus shares with these eastern european people ties of history and cultures. as well as ties of sympathy and understanding. captive nations week has acquired an added significance  in view of events in vietnam and eastcentral europe. most recently in the press we read of rumanias attempts to introduce some flexibility in the tightly controlled eastern bloc and warsaw pact. this is a positive sign and we can assist such moves toward independence by trade. cultural exchanges. and moral encouragement. in east germany. despite a manmade barrier to freedom. people daily seek asylum and a new life in the west. indeed. in each satellite country. one can find inspiring examples of restlessness and a search for freedom. we particularly e these events during captive nations week. and we pray for the time when all these people can be restored to the ranks of the free. and a captive nations week will longer be necessary.
