i thank the senator. i shall  address myself specifically to his question. i understand it very well. it is. why introduce problems of desegregation in the public schools. and all the things that implies. i shall be glad to tell the senator why. in the first place. we could  tolerate a situation of disrespect for law. this has an epidemic effect. it communicates itself to everything else. what senator in this chamber does  weep with mortification over sitdowns in cafeterias. the turning of hoses on a group of americans. or anything else of that type. yet what senator in this chamber does  understand that the minute violence starts. whether it is because of a bombing or something else. there is simply end to it. we have to be equally strict about suppressing all violence. so we have the problem of flouting of law. the idea that the supreme court has relation to the constitution is simply impossible for me to understand. as a lawyer. how else could this government operate. i assure the senator. the south did  take that position in regard to the dred scott decision. on the contrary. the south fought tooth and nail the other way. and would do the same in regard to any decision on ratemaking or anything else which suited them. argument  1 is that we have to have respect for the law. this is the law. therefore. we have to see it is all respected. the second argument is that we simply do  have that kind of time any more. the hot breath of the most grim challenge we have ever faced is right on the backs of our necks. what is happening in chattaga and nashville and atlanta and every other place in the united states is the "hottest" possible news where it does us the most harm. fortunately the people in these areasa billion strongfrom what we can see in their press reports. understand if we are trying. but they do  understand if we are  trying. as i say. i am  trying to state this should necessarily be the view of the senator. but for me. and i think for many like me. these are the two determining points which make me feel that we have to do more than provide simply a strict voting right. with an antibombing provision and what the senator said. which really comprises the violence package. as it were
