 of the americanarabian oil co.. stated flatly to the interstate and foreign commerce committee that if we had sufficient tankers there would be shortage in this country or in the world. rather. there would be. as he described it. a surplus. secondly. i want to call attention to two or three other significant statements made by him: if part of middle eastern oil were available at the present minute. there would be a better supply situation on the eastern seaboard of the united states in that middle eastern oil would be brought to the european market and substituted there for oil  sent to that area from venezuela. trinidad. and colombia. the construction of the transarabian pipe line co. was disturbed this winter by the outbreak of cholera in syria along the route of the line. it was further interrupted by the riots and civil disturbances incident to the un decision to partition palestine. if the demand continues to increase. there will be need also for additional tanker construction despite the pipe lines built in the middle east. this will depend partially upon the policy of the maritime commission and also upon the opening of the european yards for the construction of the tankers where tanker construction has always been cheaper than in the united states. here is a statement that is mighty terrifying for a man who is well informed to make: i am  an expert on this matter. but i thinkc if war were to break out tomorrow. we would find we were desperately short of tanker capacity. that whole statement. i hope. will be inserted in the appendix of the record early next week by the gentleman from new jersey chairman of the committee. so that each of you might have full opportunity to immediately study it. i k of member of my committee who is interested in hunting scapegoats. we are interested in getting at the facts in the interest of the american people we represent. if someone has made an error. be it in the executive department. among ourselves. or by industry. those errors should teach us a lesson. we do  want to face the next 4 or 5 years with this continuing threat. it is a matter of sheer national security.
