 who. in the glare of the lights of a campaign. clearly indicated the type of supreme court inee -that he would favor. we also k that judge roberts is an extraordinarily accomplished man with the right temperament. i have long ed that i believe we must retain an appropriate balance on the supreme court. i was pleased that during the hearings. judge roberts unequivocally ackledged that the constitution contains a right to privacy. he further testified that the right to privacy is  a narrowright. he explained his belief that the right to privacy was sufficiently broad to allow the courts to apply it to changing circumstances. it was important to hear judge roberts state that as a supreme court justice. he would strive to follow precedent in order to ensure stability in the law. .s10576 i wish judge roberts well as he takes necessary compromise in order to get his seat as chief justice of the united the constitution ratified. the foundstates supreme court. ers believed that the constitution must
 who. in the glare of the lights of a campaign. clearly indicated the type of supreme court inee -that he would favor. we also k that judge roberts is an extraordinarily accomplished man with the right temperament. i have long ed that i believe we must retain an appropriate balance on the supreme court. i was pleased that during the hearings. judge roberts unequivocally ackledged that the constitution contains a right to privacy. he further testified that the right to privacy is  a narrowright. he explained his belief that the right to privacy was sufficiently broad to allow the courts to apply it to changing circumstances. it was important to hear judge roberts state that as a supreme court justice. he would strive to follow precedent in order to ensure stability in the law. .s10576 i wish judge roberts well as he takes necessary compromise in order to get his seat as chief justice of the united the constitution ratified. the foundstates supreme court. ers believed that the constitution must
. i would like to underline at this point that judge kennedy demonstrated in the hearings on his ination his firm belief in the tradition of judicial restraint. but also his refusal to turn that approach into an inflexible philosophy or ideology. this is just the point of view that i have been looking for in the individual who would replace justice powell. as the judiciary committees report states. "judge kennedy has single immutable or overarching theory for interpreting the constitution and thus he pursues a cautious and measured approach." i agree with judge kennedy and with the committee report that rigid ideologies have place on the supreme court. the genius of the consitution has been. in my mind. its ability to serve our country so well over the last two centuries. years of incredible change. its protection of freedom of speech. of the right to privacy. of equal protection under the law. and of a great array of individual rights. is owed to the wondrous elasticity of its language. our supreme court justices have recognized the constitution as a document meant to be interpreted.  according to a strict literal reading of its words. but according to the broader and wiser intent of the framers. that intent was to create a document that would serve the nation as it grew and matured over the years. judge kennedy clearly understands this tradition and places himself firmly within it. he has the right combination of intellectual ability and judicial temperament to continue the great tradition.
when the time comes. let me finish my statement. what the senator from utah is proposing is to cover a situation which has rarely occurred in our country. he himself has said 45 instances of media coverage. and the truth of the matter is. the only time anybody burns a flag is when there is media coverage. except for these boy scouts. and he has assured me he is  going to send them all to jail if they follow the precepts of the handbook where it says burn the flag. if you do it. it is perfectly all right. according to the handbook. i do  k what the law of the senator from utah is going to do to them. but if they do it in a dignified way. it is all right. what is going to happen. as clear as we are here today. is you pass this statute and how is somebody going to get attention. they are going to burn the flag with hopes that the police will come along and they will be dragged away in chains with handcuffs. with television all over the place. . this is serious business what the senator from utah is doing. what he is doing is adding an amendment to the constitution that has served us for 206 years. and in the course of those 206 years. there have been 26 amendments. and. indeed. only 24 of them are still there because one passed and was subsequently repealed by aher amendment. the socalled prohibition amendment. the 18th amendment was subsequently repealed. what are those amendments about. are they about how to sing the star spangled banner. or about burning flags. the amendments are about the greatest things our country stands for. they are about freedomsthe freedom to speak and the freedom to publish and the freedom to worship and the freedom from unlawful search and seizure and the freedom from slaveryand the right to voterights and freedoms. they are  about prohibitions. they are about rights. the right to vote. the right for women to vote. the right for those 18 years and older to vote. they are what this country is all about. in my state. when we built the state house at the turn of the century. those who built it inscribed around the rotunda the following words in latin. the translation is: "rare felicity of the times when it is permitted to think as you like and to say what you think." that all comes from the constitution of the united states. here we are trivializing the constitution. we are adding words about desecrati6n of the flag. as though that is a real problem in this country. in which 45 incidents have. occurred over the past 6 years. i just think it is a tragedy that we are spending time taking this great document. which is revered all over the world.  just in the united states. and trivializing by doing something about what is going to happen to the flag. the second point is the one i have made about  only is this  a great problem. but the senator from utah has dealt with this subject for 6 years. the last vote we had on it was 5 years ago in 1990. and it has  come up since. but the senator has been working on it. seeking passage. dealing with it. and . 24 hours before we vote. he has changed it. i would like to ask the senator from utah. what prompts him. when he has been so deeply concerned with this matter. that suddenly he comes in at the last moment and changes it. i ask if there have been hearings in his committee on the language as he is  presenting it.
as the distinguished senator from missouri ks. or may  k. i was a member of the ethics committee. i resigned from the ethics committee because of the fact that i attempted to get witnesses. ones i have named here today. before the committee. had the motion passed in the committee. and then saw my motion administratively buried for national security reasons in the intelligence committee. i have too much respect for civil liberties and the constitution to go ahead and use any other procedures but those of our legal process of the u.s. senate. and i do  throw names out willynilly. but i can go ahead and conduct an investigation when my own committee has to pass my motion unanimously. denies me the fact of ever seeing those witnesses or crossexamining them.  i submitted at the outset of my talk this morning the verbatim transcripts of march 23 and april 10. in there. you will see acceptance of the motion and see how it died in a parliamentary maneuver after it had been passed. so i just want you to understand i do  throw those words out. and i might add i have intention of correcting the words used today in the record. i will stick right by them. let the senator from illis and let the senator from new mexico defend that transcript. which will appear for the world to see tomorrow. as to what they did with trying to use a proper procedure to obtain witnesses and then having that procedure denied them.
. i am  here to get into a wrangle on the pros and cons of busing. many experts. and experts. senators. and senators. have their own opinions as to the merits of that particular remedy. indeed. the senate. at least the majority vote of the senate yesterday. indicated some reservations about that remedy. but there can be reservation on the part of any one of us that the laws of this country. more particularly. the provisions of the constitution of the united states. should be upheld. that is the sum and substance of what it is i offer to my colleagues today. it is one thing to sit here and try to influence policy. but quite aher to interfere with the basic rights of all americans. the difficulty with the language as it  reads is that it could be interpreted. in its broadest sense. as preventing the department of justice from initiating any investigation of discrimination. an issue quite separate and apart from that of busing. that is a power. certainly. that is properly lodged in the department of justice and one that they should have the capacity to exercise. so. without taking a great deal of time on this issue. i hope that. indeed. whatever our feelings are and whatever our commitments to philosophy or to party. that the oath we took to the constitution of the united states would prevail. so that there can be mistake that the senate expressed itself on a matter of policy. but also. expressed itself on that greatest of all obligations we take when we become members of this body. which is to uphold the constitution of the united states.
i say to the distinguished senator from south carolina that i have proposed an amendment which would add to section 607 the following language: provided. that hing in this section shall be interpreted to prevent the department of justice from initiating or participating in litigation to secure remedies for violations of the fifth or fourteenth amendments to the constitution of the united states. that is the language i have added to the language which is  a part of the bill. which the senator successfully included in the bill yesterday.
. i would like to first bring to the attention of my colleagues what it is that we are voting on. the issue is  busing. the issue is the weicker amendment which states the following: provided. that hing in this section shall be interpreted to prevent the department of justice from initiating or participating in litigation to secure remedies for violations of the 5th and 14th amendments to the constitution of the united states. that is what is before us. there might be broader issues involved insofar as who it is who will enforce the constitution of the united states through the judicial system. however. there is issue of busing here on the floor except as it was raised in the house language and by the thurmond amendment. which is found in section 607 of the bill. indeed. when we speak of the legislative branch being heard on this issue. i think it important to e that the senate of the united states refused to table the weicker amendment by a vote of 54 to 27 on september 26. even that was done in the heat of an election campaign. i have doubt that except for the fact that we were in the midst of an election campaign. the house language embodied in the thurmond amendment would have never passed. it had never passed before. either in committee or on the floor of the senate. the reason the amendment passed here was because of an election campaign. with many members feeling this is a sensitive issue and many members  being present. even under those most adverse circumstances. the senate refused to table the weicker amendment which. in effect. guaranteed that the department of justice can enforce the constitution of the united states. it refused to table the weicker amendment by a vote of 54 to 27. busing is  the issue of this amendment. the amendment merely guarantees that the justice department will be able to enforce the laws of this country. more particularly. as was pointed out in my provision. the 5th and 14th amendments of the constitution of the united states. what do the 5th and 14th amendments say. the fifth amendment says: person shall he held to answer for a capital. or otherwise infamous crime. unless on a presentment or indictment of a grand jury. except in cases arising in the land or naval forces. or in the militia. when in actual service in time of war or public danger.  shall any person be subject for the same offenses to be twice put in jeopardy of life or limb.  shall be compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself.  be deprived of life. liberty. or property. without due process of law.  shall private property be taken for public use. without just compensation. let me repeat. "person shall be * * * deprived of life. liberty. or property. without due process of law." that is the point. the 14th amendment provides: all persons born or naturalized in the united states. and subject to the jurisdiction thereof. are citizens of the united states and of the state wherein they reside. state shall make or enforce any law which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the united states.  shall any state deprive any person of life. liberty. or property without due process of law.  deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws. that is the pertinent section as it applies to the guarantee of equality throughout the land. all my amendment says is that the justice department should  be limited in any way in enforcing the constitution of the united states. the weicker amendment has hing in it about busing. hing at all. let me ask. who is it who is going to enforce the constitution of the united states. who is it that is going to bring to the recognition of the judiciary the inequities of life which are violations of the constitution and of law. who is charged with that responsibility if indeed it is  the justice department of the united states. does it mean that senators will jump out of their seats and run across the street and take on that task. is it the man on the street who is expected to take on that task.  on behalf of the citizenry of this country. it is the justice department that is charged with that responsibility. i might add to my good friend from south carolina. soon to become chairman of the judiciary committee. i can think of anything more embarrassing than to have one of his first actions be declared unconstitutional. there is doubt in my mind that if this language contained in section 607 is passed as it is. it will be declared unconstitutional.
. i believe. as sam ervin clearly stated. that forced going to be fought every inch of the wayfought in the parliamentary sense. fought on the basis of substance or the lack thereof. i recall that in the last session of the u.s. senate. we had before us an appropriations bill for the justice department. and i recall that. for the first time in the history of either this body or the house. this type of language passed. it was passed at a time when politics was very much in the wind and politics ruled the reason of the u.s. senate. after the language was passed. i recall suggesting that we recess the matter until the neyt day. and i went home and tried to figu. a out a way to undo the mischief. the next day i offered an amendment that stated: hing in this act shall be interpreted to limit in any manner the department of justice in enforcing the constitution of the united states.  shall anything in this act be interpreted to modify or diminish the authority of the courts of the united states to enforce fully the constitution of the united states. at this time i said this should do it. because certainly ody is going to vote against that amendment. if memory serves me correctly. i lost by a vote of 46 to 43. the senate of the united states saying that the justice department can enforce the constitution of the united states. how ridiculous. what a derogation of our responsibilities. in the sense of upholding the constitution. to turn down that kind of language. demagoguery ruled the floor of the u.s. senate at that time.  a devotion to great constitutional principles. demagoguery is once again afoot in what is being presented here under the title of an antibusing amendment. make mistake about itthis eroding of our commitment to civil rights is  something that can be laid at the door of the last u.s. senate or this session of the u.s. senate.
on what basis does this body presume to inject itself into the justice process. certainly. we have the right to make the laws. certainly the right. especially in the senate. as a matter of advise and consent. to play a role in the appointment of judges. what we are saying here today is even though we have a role to play in the appointment of judges. even though we are going to make the laws. in other words. we are going to have the players on the field. we are going to make the rules of the game. but then if the game does  go the way we want it to go. we want to be able to cancel out everything we have done. what i am saying here today basically to all of that is " " we started it. and we are going to  have to see what the finish holds for all of us as citizens of this country. whether we are senators or whether we are a part of those whom we serve. the citizenry of the nation. we are  going to get more than one swing at the pitch of justice in this country. i saw the same process take place with many of our regulatory agencies. where congress. having set up the agency in hopes of remedying a particular problem or advancing a particular opportunity in this country. then did  like what the agency did. so they said. "we are  going to go ahead and control it by keeping a hand on funding." there are tough decisions to be made in this country. very tough decisions. but if we choose to follow the route of assigning them either to an agency or to a court. then we have to accept the consequences of that buckpassing. i want to cite again the example of what happened right here on the floor of the senate in the past session of congress when the exact same language. the exact same scenario. took place: senator helms coming forth with his "antibusing." anticivilrights language. senator weicker adding his amendment. reaffirming the role of the courts of this country and reaffirming the provisions of the constitution. i wish i could read you the rollcall of senators coming up to me on the floor and saying. "lowell. you are absolutely right. but this is a political hot potato and. quite frankly. the president can go ahead and handle it. so even if we pass the bill on the floor of the u.s. senate the president will veto it. it is unconstitutional. lowell." can you imagine recognizing you are voting for something you perceive as unconstitutional. what kind of an exercise in leadership is that. then. having passed on the flooror ratherthe welcker amendment having lost. the press obviously immediately contacted the white house and the word was sent back. fortunately. it was  a word that was to hold: president carter lived up to the title of being president of the united states in this instance. he made the tough decision. but in any event. the initial word out of the white house was. "this is a hot potato and it is more probable than  that the president will let this slide off and let the supreme court make the decision as to whether it is constitutional or ." just in that time. those few hours. you had a microscopic view of the problem that we find ourselves in today as a senate complaining about that which "we have control over either in the judicial or the regulatory sense." if you choose to have others make the decisio .. then you are stuck with the decision they make. and that is what people in this chamber do  like. and if they do  like it. i would suggest to them that they make the decision themselves.  there is a solution other than busing to the educational problems which confront this country. but. believe me. my colleagues. . would vigorously pursue in every way the dream of quality of educational opportunities for all americans. and where somebody is violating the law they  only be told that they are violating the law but they be ordered to straighten out their act. discrimination is illegal. segregation is illegal. separate but equal is illegal. illegal. e of these matters being complained about in terms of remedy even come to pass until that first deterinination has been made. that is that an illegality exists. but apparently  we have a new concept of justice. as long as a majority support the illegality in political terms we say hing about it. law and order. law and order. advocates of this legislation before us want law and order. yes. there is law and order. this is law and order that i am talking about right . an illegality is determined. so what are you going to do about it. everybody is concerned about somebody running around the inner city doing bodily harm to a victim. and we should rightfully be concerned. but what about the harm that is done by those sworn to uphold the constitution when they want to ige the constitution and ige the law. because it is more sophisticated. is it any the less the crime. it is far more the crime. we are supposed to k better. we have been placed in that situation where. by virtue of ecoics and education. we. above all. should understand both the consequences of wrongdoing and that which is required to end the wrongdoing. because egh people do  agree with the verdict. the judgment. are we saying as a nation that we are  going to obey. is that what we are saying. are we going to lead the lawbreakers here on the senate floor in terms of how we view the constitution. because we do  like what the supreme court does. because we do  like what the justice department does. all of a sudden it is longer what is legal or . but what we like. well. fine. let everybody. 250 million of us. go out and figure out our own set of laws. it is  a matter of what we like. it is  a matter of what brings us the most votes at election time. it is a matter of what jaw is about. in the separation of powers. when it comes to the constitution. and when it comes to the right to declare a remedy on an illegality. it is all a matter of law.  what we like or what we think is right or what we think is wrong. it is a matter of the law. this is a government of laws.  of men. and yet it is slowly being turned around into just that which brought us into being as a nation in the first instance. it used to be before there was a united states of america that if individuals high egh up did  like the law. they could ige it or in some instances disobey it. because that became too common a practice. more than just a few said. "i have had it." and that few came over here and they decided that. at least for them. there was going to be a government of laws. and the epitome of that is embodied in the constitution of the united states.
ii continuing the remarks prepared by professor gerwitz: while most of us can point to sone decisions of the supreme court with which we disagree. we recngnize that. overall. this power of judicial review. exercised by an independent federal judiciary. is a critically important element of our constitutional deniocracy. overall. it has served us wellwhether it has been to vindicate the rule of law when challenged by a corrupt president. or to protect ordinary citizens against an overreaching government. or to open the way to greater racial equality. or to help mediate conflicts between nation and state or executive and legislature. the reason that the proposed jurisdictional limitations are so dangerous is that they would undercut. in a fundamental and unprecedented way. that essential function of interpreting and enforcing the constitution. congress. in effect. would be assuming the power to change specific constitutional results by simple majority vote and without a constitutional amendment. consider. for example. the effect of the bill that strips jurisdiction from all federal courts to hear cases involving school prayers. in the early 1060s. the supreme court ruled that the first amendment of the u.s. constitution. which prohibits the establishment of religion. prohibits the government from requiring the reading or recitation of prayers in public schools. if a public school introduces prayers and a parent sues to enforce those earlier supreme court decisions. the state courts might well fail to provide a remedy. but if that happens. under current law the parents could appeal to the united states supreme court. a federal court. to enforce their federal constitutional rights. te proposed jurisdictional legislation seeks to prevent the supreme court from hearing such a case. the state court decision allowing school prayers would stand. thus. as its sponsor senator helms admits. the proposed legislation seeks to manipulate jurisdiction so as to restore prayer to the schoolsin short to change a constitutional result. such legislation is hing less than an assault on the independence of the federal judiciary. perhaps the framers of the first amendment of our constitution were wrong in seeking to prevent the establishment of religion by the government. perhaps the supreme courts decisions interpreting the meaning of the first amendment should be changed. that is  the issue. the question is whether it is appropriate for congress. by a simple majority. to try to achieve those ends by means of manipulating the jurisdiction of federal courts to hear cases. the answer is  the constitution itself provides a method for changing the content of constitutional guarantees: amending the constitution through the procedures specified in article v. it is a difficult process. requiring approval by a twothirds vote in each house of congress and ratification by threefourths of the states. but it was designed to be difficult. the proposed jurisdictional provisions seek to endrun this constitutional amendment process by asserting congress power. by simple majority. to strip away from federal courts the jurisdiction to hear cases enforcing existing constitutional rights. it is a power that. once unicashed. would be difficult to confine it would work a fundamental reallocation of power between congress and the supreme court. recognizing that a constitutional democracy is a delicate thing. and that ours has been a uniquely successful experiment. it would be terribly unwise and terribly risky for congress to act in a way that surely undercuts the role and function of an independent federal judiciary in our system of separation of powers. shortruns gain justifies such a longterm risk. this is  an issue that should divide conservatives and liberals. or democrats and republicans. it should  divide those who support or disagree with one or aher constitutional decision of the supreme court. the issue at stake is one of our basic constitutional structure and institutional arrangementswhether we really want to tamper so fundamentally with the basic allocation of powers in our political system. when the proposed legislation is understood in these terms. the opposition to it should grow. significantly. constitutional scholars of all political stripes have concluded that jurisdictional limits of the sort involved here are unconstitutional. the late alexander bickel. perhaps the most respected constitutional scholar of his generation. was of this belief. in spite of his sharp criticism of supreme court decisions such bills sought to change. said professor bickel: "i deplore as more destructive than the worst of busing the attempt to work such a reallocation of powers between congress and the supreme court." i professor robert bork of the yale law school. a conservative who served as solicitor general of the united states under presidents nixon and ford. opposes such congressional restrictions on jurisdiction as a "cure that may set a precedent more damaging than . . . wrong supreme court decisions."2 the only argument in favor of the constitutionality of congress power to regulate the federal courts jurisdiction in this way relies upon article iii of the constitution itself. the article which discusses the judicial power. article iii provides that the "judicial power of the united states. shall be vested in one supreme court"thereby specifically mandating the existence of the supreme court-"and in such inferior courts as the congress may from time to time ordain and establish." article iii also provides that the judicial power of the united states shall extend to various categories of cases. including "all cases . . . arising under this constitution." article iii provides that in some of these cases the supreme court shall have original jurisdiction. but it then goes on to state that in "all the other cases . . .. the supreme court shall have appellate jurisdiction. both as to law and fact. with such exceptions. and under such regulations. as congress shall make." according to proponents of the legislation being discussed here. this "exceptions and regulations" clause gives congress unfcttered authority to prevent the supreme court from hearing on appeal whatever cases congress sees fit to withhold from the supreme court. moreover. congress power to ordain and establish the lower federal courts allegedly gives congress the plenary authority to withhold from those courts the power to hear such cases as an initial matter. "whats wrong with nixons busing bills". the new republic. april 22. 1972. *newyork times. mari 16. 1981: p. a10. the literature on the subject is vast. the starting point is hart. "the power of congress to limit the jurisdiction of federal courts: an exercise in dialectic. 60 harv. l. rev. 1362 (1953). see also theodore eisenberg. "congressional authority to restrict lower federal court jurisdiction." 83 yale l. j. 483 (1974). but neither article iii.  the history of its intirpretation. will sustain such a radical view of congress powers. to be sure. congress does have significant authority to regulate the jurisdiction of the federal courts. but given the status of the supreme court as a constitutionally mandated court. and given the distinctive role that the fram. ers of the constitution understood the supreme court would play in the constitutional planto assure the supremacy and uniform application of the constitutionthe "exceptions and regulations" clause should most plausibly be seen as authorizing only neutral "housekeeping" measures (such as the congressional provision for discretionary certiorari jurisdiction). and  the selective exclusion of cases of the sort involved here. which interferes with the courts central constitutional functions. in short. such leg. islation violates article iii itself and the requirements of separation of powers that pervade the entire constitution. at the very least. congress may  exercise its powers under article iii in a way which violates other provisions of the constitutionjust as congress may  exercise its admittedly broad powers to regulate commerce or to tax in a way which violates other constitutional provisions. thus. congress obviously could  "except" from the supreme courts appellate jurisdiction cases in which the plaintiff was black. such a law would deprive blacks of rights to equal protection of the laws guaranteed by provisions of the constitution other than article iii itself. more generally. if the purpose and effect of a congressional restriction on federal court jurisdiction is to interfere with the vindication of substantive constitutional rights. such a restriction on federal jurisdiction is a violation of the substantive constitutional right involved. if congress sought to restore school prayers to the public schools by means of a substantive statute. that would surely violate the first amendment. so too does a jurisdictional statute which. its sponsors concede. is designed to have the same effect. congress is simply trying to achieve indirectly what it could  achieve directly. the bill disadvantages a category of constitutional rights because of congress opposition to those rights. however broad congress power to regulate federal court jurisdiction. it does  extend this far. (obviously. congress could  claim that its purpose in singling out school prayer cases or abortion cases is to regulate the supreme courts workload or to serve some other neutral housekeeping objective.) it is answer to assert that the state courts remain open and will fully enforce existing constitutional rights. the sponsors of the bills have obviously made the judgment themselves that many state courts will enforce existing rights with far less vigor and effectiveness than their federal court counterparts. that is the point of the proposed legislation. ( is this congressional judgment without reasonable foundation. for a variety of reasons. the federal supreme court and federal lower courts have traditionally been more favorably disposed to claims of federal rights than state courts. and more effective in implementing those rights.) congress action will presumably have the effects that congress desires.* this is particularly apparent with respect to the restrictions of the supreme courts appellate jurisdiction. denying supreme court review is  outcomeneutral. but weighted against effectuation of that courts settled law. for in any event. actions "animated by such a purpose have credentials whatsoever. for [a icts generally lawful may become unlawful when done to accomplish an unlawful end . . .. whatever [their] actual effect may have been or may be. " city of richmond v. united states. 422 u.s. 358 (1975). the court to accept such restrictions on its jurisdiction would  only violate the principles of marbury v. madison but the substantive rights that congress seeks to override. in short. the proposed bills are  truly provisions aimed 4it regulating jurisdiction. out rather are aimed at achieving a desired resultindeed at changing settled constitutional rules. that such legislation would be unconstitutional is. in the end. the lesson of united states v. klein. 80 u.s. (13 wall.) 128 (1872). in klein. congress had passed legislation which prevented certain claimants whad received presidential pardons from receiving claim awards and which deprived the supteme court of jurisdiction to review claims based upon presidential pardons. while hing that in general congress had power to regulate the courts jurisdiction. the court concluded that the legislation her was unconstitutional since "the language of the proviso shows that it does  intend to withhold appellate jurisdiction except as a means to an end. its great and controlling purpose is to deny pardons granted by the president the ellect which this court had adjudged them to have." 80 u.s. (13 wall.) at 145. finally. a word about the famous reconstruction case. ex parfe mccardle. 74 u.s. (7 wall.) 506 (1869). in mccardle. the court upheld congress power to repeal the supreme court appellate habeas corpus jurisdiction that had previously been authorized by an 1867 statute. this outcome. along with some language in the courts opinion. is sometimes read to establish that congress has very broad power to withhold supreme court jurisdiction under the power to make "exceptions." plainly the case can support such a reading. the opinion explicitly and carefully states that the repeal did  affect other jurisdictional statutes giving the supreme court power to review habeas corpus decisions. indeed. in the very same term as mccardle the supreme court held that dental of habeas corpus could be reviewed under those other provisions. ex parte yerger. 75 u.s. (8 wall.) 85 (1869). far from establishing congress broad power to remove access to the supreme courts appellate jurisdiction. mccardle actually stands for the proposition that in constitutional cases congress may withhold one jurisdictional basis for supreme court review only if aher jurisdictional basis is available. the recent round of legislative proposals restricting the supreme courts appellate jurisdiction contains e of mccardles escape hatches. and for that reason they are patently unconstitutional.  is going to be sitting there in the white house and say. "well. let the supreme court take care of it." one day the supreme court is  going to take care of it and all of a sudden it is gone. that very process which you are trying  to interrupt or to distort. it will go. the whole process. because ody cared and then it will become a law. do you realize why we are in this predicament even . it is because ody has cared in election after election. from 90 percent. to 80 percent. to 70 percent. to 60 percent. ody cares. there is such thing as washington. there is such thing as those senators. those congressmen. it is a representative democracy. it is us. and if ody cares at the beginning of the chain. then. believe me. it is only a matter of time before ody cares at the end. and it is all gone then. that is the reason why the fight here is  busing. fine. if this administration does  want to use busing in a policy sense. that is their business. i can live without it. but what i can live without is the ability of the court to make its judgment as to how the illegality is going to be remedied. what good is to to say if somebody is guilty if there is hing you can do about it. what is the alternative being proposed out here on the floor. have you heard any senator saying. "i am against busing. but here is what we are going to do". you do  hear that. you hear. "i am against busing." period. what do you do. what do you do. unless somebody is also in the back of their minds saying there is discrimination.  you k that is  so. and the courts say that it is  so.
for example. we k that the education of the retarded and disabled children is emously expensive. so i can foresee the time come when. with very limited funds out there. somebody is going to say. ". listen. that has gotten to be too expensive. and we have to take care of the majority of children out there first. so lets take care of them. so lets make sure that the justice department cant pursue the civil rights of the retarded and disabled." everybody can conceive that this argument has to do with black people and hispanics. we are talking about a civil rights issue. i say to the senator. it applies to each of us. and all of a sudden. maybe one of these days. it will be unpopular to be old. it will be unpopular to be disabled. it will be unpopular to be an american. and you longer have the constitution there to defend you. well. maybe one of these days. if the distinguished senator from th carolina keeps it up. it will be unpopular to be a u.s. senator. and you will  have the constitution to protect you. and we will just go ahead and make sure the justice department is going to keep hands off.
that is absolutely correct. i think my colleagues k me well egh to think sometimes they might object to style. let us say that i was 100 percent against busing. i would take the exact same position on this floor as i am taking right . the exact same position. again. i have repeat. when i first came to the u.s. senate. we were changing rule xxii. that is when we were dropping it from 66 to 60. i voted against that change as a new england senator. i did  want to choke off the voice of the then miity. regardless of what i am supposed to beliberal. or whatever it is. or coming from new englandnew england senators favor cloture. that was neither here  there. there was an important principle. so far as i was concerned. at that tim6. it favored my southern colleagues. the important principle was that here. if here else in the united states. a person could be heard. matter whether it was only one person or two persons. i voted against that change. and i say the same thing herethat on this issue. where i am 100 percent against busing. i would still vote against the helms amendment and i would vote for the weicker amendment. to me. it is a constitutional matter. at least. i try to feel these thingsat least in my own mindin a pragmatic way. to achieve this end and leave the constitution behind in shambles. to leave the concept of separation of powers in shambles. to leave marbury against madisonchief justice marshalls decisionin shambles. what is it we have done in achieving some sort of political philosophy.
the senator is correct. but that is the reason for this whole exercise. the senator is absolutely correct. there is intent to comply either procedurally or substantively with the constitution of the united states. there is attempt to comply either procedurally or substantively with the constitution of the united states. this amendment by the distinguished senator from th carolina does many things and he can tell it is doing many things. but. if agreed to. it will have set back the cause of civil rights 50 years and it will have destroyed a portion of the constitution. it might do a lot of other things which would please me. that is fair egh. i just want to also understand what it is that is going to be done. the costbenefit analysis which seems to have overcome this town might say. "well. that is a good tradeoff. a little bit of the constitution. a little less civil rights. but we get rid of busing." that is kind of a costbenefit study. i am  getting into that. i am saying very simply that i am  going to give up one word of the constitution of the united states matter what is achieved. i am certainly willing to see policy changed. i will take my lumps on the floor. i k things are going to be different as a matter of policy around here. that does  bother me. i voted against the budget and got soundly beaten. i have complaints coming. i voted against the confirmation of alexander haig and i got beaten. i have complaints about that. on that. proposal made was unconstitutional. i might disagree with the individual. i might disagree with the numbers in the budget. but certainly i would  stand up here and give this kind of an argument to support my votes there. but this is different. this is an entirely different horse that is being trotted out here. this goes way beyond any busing issue. i do  think in the course of my presentation during the past several days i have once gotten into any sort of a statistical review or substantive review of busing. it is  necessary. i might add in saying that. i do  in any way back off. if that is what the court orders. that is what i am for. i am  saying here that i am for everything. but. do  worry anybody. i am against busing. busing is  something that all of a sudden dropped down from on high. it is something the court instructed as the best response to the illegality. and if we have a better response here on the senate floor. why  go ahead and enact it. has anybody asked what is the response of the u.s. senate to discrimination in the schools. what has been our response. you would have a hard time finding it. that is the reason why the court had to act. i am sure the court would have preferred  to have gotten into this at all. the final refuge. then. for those who were the victims of this particular type of discrimination were the courts. that is the point i tried to make. you want the courts. every one of us wants them. as our final refuge. in our moment of crisis. in our moment of difficulty. that is what is important. i can say that i think the issue of busing is going to be gone because i can tell you in the absence of any sort of initiative. it is  going to be gone. as soon as we come up with a plan. as soon as we do something on this end. then it will disappear from the scene. but we can all go running around the united states saying. yes. there is discrimination. and throw up our hands. there has to be an answer. imperfect as the courts answer happens to be. it happens to be the only answer out there because we are  acting here. then along comes the leadership of the senate and the white house and uses the same buzz words. inflames the same passions. in community after communityi say this to my colleagueswhere the political leadership has stood firm behind the constitution and behind the law. there has been adherence to the law. but when the gover or the city council or the mayor or the senators or the congressmen started. to thumb their es at the law. then. believe me. everybody else gets into the act. would you expect anything else to happen. i hope. as i stand before this body tonight. that the people in my state understand what is at issue here. connecticut can be very proud of the fact that it goes by the title of the "constitution state." it was the 1st of the 50 states to have a written constitution. the fundamental orders. it is great to have those words on the license plate. but they should mean something or they do . it also is  the new england state of the old new englander that most people understand. my state is 25 percent of italian origin. just short of that in both irish and polish. in terms of quality of life. it has one of the highest per capita incomes in the country. one of the highest standards. as  2 or  3. in terms of quality of life. how does dverybody in my state feel they got to where they are.
 of the bar association. in which he states that the house of delegates of the american bar association overwhelmingly approved a resolution opposing congressional curtailment of the jurisdiction of the supreme court or the inferior federal courts for the purpose of effecting changes in constitutional law. so longer is there any inference to be drawn in the body of the whole from the statements of its executive director. the body as a whole has spoken. the legal basis for my opposition. the constitutional basis for my opposition. has never been more valid than it is today. . underlying all of this is that there must be one thing that can change in a political. in a governmental. structure that more so than any other represents the will of the people. there still has to be a cornerstone to which all can relatei majorities may change. philosophies. whether left. right. middle of the road. parties. republican. democrat. all these change. but one aspect of our political and governmental life must remain constant. and that is the constitution of the united states. so that it will be available to those who have effectuated change or those who are being oppressed by it. in the final analysis. i do  think there as anyone in this chamber. or any citzn of this country. who wants a senator of the united states looking over the shoulder of the judge when his or her time comes before that judge. before that court. that is the issue. are you going to philosophize justice. are you going to make a partisan issue out of justice. are you going to take away from thejustice the independblnce which has been the final guarantee of all of our rights. of all our beliefs. of all our politics.
madam president. first let me state at the outset that the matter before the senate of the v7nited states has hing whatsoever to do with busing. we could substitute any remedy ordered by a court of this country and the argument against the procedures suggested by the distinguished senator from louisiana would be identical to those in the present instant. by the reasoning of the distinguished senator from louisiana. what check is there on the congress of the united states. by his very words here this aftern. the answer to that would have to be e. anything we do  like. we can overturn as a matter of simple legislation on this floor. that. of course. is riot the way the constitution was devised.  was it intended to operate in that fashion. there is a way of responding to the inadequacies or the overzealousness of the supreme court and it is clearly set forth in article v. but that is a rather cumbersome process. and it was meant to be so. it is  a matter of a simple majority on the floor of the senate or the house. rather. it is a matter of a twothirds vote and threefifths of the states to change the constitution of the united states. that. in essence. is what the distinguished senator from louisiana and the distinguished senator from th carolina are unwilling to do. the issue presented to the people of this country would~  be. are you for "forced busing" or . the issue would be. are you willing to have the congress of the united states politicize the justice available to every american within our court system. that is the issue. madam president what i find demeaning in the remarks of the distinguished senator from louisiana is his reference to this poll and that poll. i thought these were to be giants of american politics. that this was to be an exercise in courage. in leadership. but apparently.  so. rather. it is a fingertothewind attitude. one which is governed by what the polls say. i suppose. on matters of public policy. it is prudent to pay attention to the wishes of ones constituency. but there is one element of our life as americans that can bend. can be moved by the temporary passions of any generation.that is the constitution. it has to remain constant. yet it must be clear to those who heard the argument presented by the distinguished senator from louisiana1 that there would be check on the congress of the united states if the principle he espouses is allowed to take *hold. that is the reason that i take the floor this aftern. as r have in days and weeks gone by. i am  here. madam president. to *argue the policies of how to achieve equal opportunity to education. i am  here to argue as to the merits or demerits of public policy as it relates to desegregation of our schools. i am here. madam president. to uphold the -principles of the constitution. more particularly the separation.of powers doctrine. the doctrine of judicial review and the doctrine of due process. these are the matters that are at issue before this body. as. indeed. they would be were this matter to go. under article v. to the other house of congress and to the various states. madam president. i understand the powers that are granted to congress. i have  intended to debate the claim made by the distinguished senator from louisiana as to article iii. section 2. however. if one needs to find language in the constitution as a source for these restrictions8 on the power of congress to control the jurisdiction of the lower federal courts. it is in the dueprocess clause of the fifth amendment. the overarching guarantee of due process is the sacred assurance that the federal government will govern fairly. impartialy and com- resolution was brought to the house of delepassionately. all the powers of con- gates because of the many bills which are grsst tataewr orglt pending in congress .to strip the federal gress taxonstaied br its conat courts of jurisdiction to hear cases on toncomnierceare cntandbisco.troversial subjects such as busing. school stitutional inability to deprive us of our prayer and abortion. a copy of the resolurights to life. liberty. and property with- tion. and a copy of the report which ac4 out due process of law. as a power of conipanied it before the house of delegates congress. the authority to control juris- are enclosed. diction is therefore restricted by the right at beet the pending legislation is of quesof due process. that is the wonder of the tionable constitutionality. but in any event it is. in my judgment. expressive of an examerican constitution as it lives and tremely poor policy with serious. adverse breathes. implications for the future. if lawmakers. but what is advocated here has or others. believe our constitution. as insuch restriction. the power of congress terpreted by the branch of government to is supreme. it is  shared with any which its interpretation was entrusted is other entity of government. wrong. the answer lies either in the appellate thans t themanpultion ofthejudicial process itself or in the amendment thans t themanpultion oftheof the constitution by the means provided distinguished senator from louisiana in that constitution. anything else repreand the distinguished senator from sents a change in our basic system of goyth carolina. we have the congress of erment that might please some persons tothe united states making incursions  day and be used tomorrow to destroy things on just one branch of government.  in our system that the same persons hold justthejudcialbrachbut lsothedear. exutie wh e hicavernh utas h although toe secretary of the association execuivewill formally advise toe president. the atso what whaeis justice to be deter- torney general. the chiet justice. and the mined. justice to be administered. jus- relevant committees of the congress of the tice. if need be. to be appealed to only action taken by our house of delegates. beone branch of govrnment--the con- cause of the grave importance of the subgress of the united states. ject. the fact that it will again be before thisamedmen prvent th jusicethe senate immediately upon the reconvendepament frthentd statejstfrom ing of the congress. and my strong support depatmen ofthe nite sttes rom for toe action of the house of delegates. enforcing the rights of. americans. you i personally call it to your attention and have  taken and swept aside the ex- urge your assistance in defeating any such ecutive branch and then deny the sarad legislation. to the courts of the united states. in- sincerely. cluding the supreme court. what re. davin r. baink. mains. congress. it does  take any by the same token. madam president. genius to see the difficulty or the perils in i received today. as did my colleague in that. the last few days. a letter from coinwhat. i argue for here today is  a mon cause. which i ask unanimous conparticular remedy in a school desegrega- sent to have printed at this point in tion case. rather. it is for all of us as the rscoro. amfericans to assure that when our time there being objection. the letter com~es before the bar of justice. we are was ordered to be printed in the rzccord. ro0t going to have a group of polltaking as fftllows: senators leaning over the shoulders -of cokmon caust. the court. waalhixgtott. d.c. december 8. 1981. so make mistake. about what the dearf senator: the senate is currently issue is and what is involved here before scheduled to consider a. 951 this week. the this body this afte. justice department authorization bill. coin. nevr i myentre arer i poitismon cause strongly opposes an amendment whicvstrt in 196 enin threri plitecs. that bas been added to s. 951 by senators watrin connteticut neer in the cour egse bennett johnston (dla) and jesse helms latre n cnnetict. eve inthecouse r. of my general kledge as one who has the johnstnrelms amendment reprealways interested himself in government.. sentb an effort by congress to override decihave i seen such a naked. unparalleled. sions by the federal courts on the remedies frightening attack upon the constitution necessary to guaratee basic constitutional and upon the rights of all american citi- rights in the area of public education. the zens as is being presented on the floor johnston proposal. .however. can be here today by virtue of the johnston. viewed merely in the context of school. dehelms amendment. segregation. it must instead be sean as one of ther ar ties hat hae wndeeda series of dangerous attacks  pending in astohe arideendent pitiaeondertak. congress on the independence of the judiif indee indamnttene hosis otakof ciary. other bills on the senate calendar and if ideedi a theone ho s ou ofunder consideration in the senate judiciary step. but in tis instance. we hay 3 an committee overturn supreme court deciorganization that hardly could be con- sions on abortion. school prayer. and sidered independent or liberal. moderate. desegregationl. or whatevera rather conservative orga- our forefathers developed the constitution nization. representing the lawyers of this and independent judicial power to enforce it country. the american bar association. for the very purpose of putting our basic libin aleter wittn tome n auust24.erties beyond the control of popular whim. 1981 av etr rinkn the presidenst of. and elected executive or legislative majorithe1 aeican. brik asotion rodet as ties. in proposing the dill of rights. james follows: ba sscato. rtea madison explained."11.. independent tribufollows:nals of justice will consider themselves ina dear senator wzeicutx: on august it. the peculiar manner the guardians of those house of delegates of the american bar as. rights. they will be an impenetrable bulwark soclation overwhelmingly approved a resolu- agprilst every assumption of power in the tion opposing congressional curtailment of legislative or executive." the jurisdiction of the supreme court or the the legislation mnentioned above would inferior federal courts for the purpose of subvert and compromise the principle that effecting changes in constitutional law. this there are fundamental human rights beyond the reach of any government just beyond any elected executive. but beyond any government. including majorities in a representative congress or legislature. the bills would compromise the principle because all of them presuppose a power in simple congressional majorities to nullify or partially frustrate constitutional rights recognized by the judiciary. if. as in one proposed bill. congress can supply a binding definition of "life" or "person." it can equally doclare that the provision of "separate but equal" facilities to persona of different color is "equal protection under the law." or that the belief of any police officer that an arrest or search and seizure will be helpful to law enforcement is "probable cause." similarly. if congress can deny those seeking to be free from "an establishment of religion" the usual right of access to the lower federal courts or to the supreme court on appeal from the highest state court. then majorities in the senate and house can deny that access in cases seeking protection for other constitutional rights. such as the right to criticize government officials or to secure equal per capita representation in a malapportioned legislature. a right i only as good as the remedy. a constitutional right is at the mercy of legislative majorities unless supported by a judicial remedy. to deprive federal courts of jurisdiction granted by the federal constitution would result fi a hodgepodge of inconsistent state interpretations.  all of which could be expected to rise above local pasion or selfshness a law may be within the legal authority of congress to enact in the sense that the courts must give effect to it. yet do violence to our american traditions and the funtd* mentals of our constitutionalism. because the bills in question impliedly assert the power of congressional majorities to abolish or frustrate constitutional rights. they would disturb the historic balance of power among the three branches of government. even it the abortion. desegregation and school prayer cases were wrongly decided. it would be disastrous to accept the principle that simple majorities of the senate and house of representatives. with the approval of the president. can nullify or lessen constitutical rights wrongheaded decisions should be changed by time and debate or by constitutional amendment.. as they have been changed in the past. to correct any perceived error abortion. desegregation. or school prayer decisions by curtailing the powerof the federal courts would be to pay. an excessively high price. it would also deprive the courts of the jurisdiction necessary for them to be madisons "impenetrable bulwark" of liberty. the principle that constitutional rights should be beyond the reach of legislative majorities is deeply embedded in american history. yet todays attacks upon the independence of the judiciary are  the first. throughout our history there have been legislative attacks upon the power of the judicial branch - to protect constitutional rights. for example. during my law school days. president franklin d. roosevelt pyoposed legislation to pack the supreme court with new justices who agreed with his conatitutional philosophy. at that time. th carolina senator josiah w. bailey rose to defend the constitution with these words: "congress is mighty but the constitution to mightier. the court and the constitution. they stand or fall together . . . to weaken either is to weaken the foundations of our republic. to destroy either is to destroy the republic." in 1937. and in each other instance. despite discontent with particular decisions. congress and the american people have restated the attacks as threats to constitutionalism. the repeated rejections demonstrate the continuing conviction of the people that. in the interests of individual liberty. even legislative majorities should sometimes be subject to check. regardless of whether you agree or disagree with the court decisions affected by these bills. we appeal to your belief in constitutionalism and ask your active support in rejecting the johnstonhelms amendment and similar bills and amendments  pending in the senate. sincerely. archimald cox. charmain.
. when all is said and done. it will be clear that the era is  the pandoras box of mischief and radicalism described by its opponents. equality and liberty are  to be feared in america. rather. this document will be viewed as a cornucopia of progress from which the fruits of fairness. opportunity. and justice will eminate and rish an america yet to be. passage of the era will make our constitution stronger and bring our country closer to the ideals of the american spirit and personal liberty. finally. it will bring one of the longest chapters in the american revolution to a fitting close and bring abigail adams the answer she sought from her husband 238 years ago. grant women equal rights.e
. this bill is such a case. i urge my colleagues to heed washingtons warning withstanding our desire to pass a crime package so we can appear to be anticrime. with the habeas corpus reform and exclusionary rule reform. both of which raise critical separation of powers questions while neither responds to or solves a clear problem. this package will be far tougher on the constitution than it will be on t rime. i urge my colleagues to defeat this bill.
. this bill is such a case. i urge my colleagues to heed washingtons warning withstanding our desire to pass a crime package so we can appear to be anticrime. with the habeas corpus reform and exclusionary rule reform. both of which raise critical separation of powers questions while neither responds to or solves a clear problem. this package will be far tougher on the constitution than it will be on t rime. i urge my colleagues to defeat this bill.
i thank the distinguished senator from kentucky. . i rise in opposition to the bill and want to make a few remarks as to what it is that has transpired. both on the floor and off. in trying to focus on what is truly at issue. what is  at issue is whether or  we have had extended debate or who was arrested. indeed. if we were doing our job on issues and articulately presenting those issues to the nation. we would be more arresting of the public attention than of ourselves. but we are  addressing issues. we are  presenting them in a way that creates enthusiasm among the voters and because of that. our democratic system is in jeopardy. but in order to preserve it. i do  think it prudent to turn to artificialities. rather. stick to the principles contained in the first amendment of the constitution of the united states. a paper i greatly respect makes the point well. i happen to agree 95 percent of the time with the content of editorials in the new york times. and i might add. journalistically i think there is better newspaper in this nation. the other day. they had an editorial called "reformbusters in the senate." and in effect. it stated that: given the charges of sleaze arising almost daily against the reagan administration. republicans ought sensibly to want to dissoclate themselves from the poisos climate. tomorrows antifilibuster vote will give all senators. and particularly republl. cans. their chance. it also saysby ending the filibuster and passing the bill. the senate could control campaign costs and scrub away some of the suspicion that has settled. like polluted air. on wmshingtons marble halls. i am mentioned by name in the editorial thought. that is immaterial to these remarks. the first amendment of the constitution of the united states several provisions. one of which is the congress shall make law. make law abridging the freedom of speech. "congress shall make law abridging the right of the people to petition the government for a redress of grievances." these are all in the first amendment. these rights are all involved in this debate on campaign financing. the first amendment implies that political expression is a best tended to by the people of the nation. i agree. it is  a matter to be defined by congress. today an editorial appeared in the new york times entitled "outrageous free speech. yes. and free." the operative paragraph is right there in the first paragraph. when a supreme court headcd by william rehnquist delares the deepest commitment to frze speech. and does so unanimously. it furthers a thrilling principle of liberty. larry flynts rancid hustler magazine may have ridiculed tile rev. jerry falwell in the coarsest and most outrageous way. but freedom of speech. the court declares. extends to utterances that are outlandish. even detestable. the court thus reaffirms its historic trust in the people to decide for themselves what to read and what to heed. that same first amendment says "congress shall make law abridging freedom of the press." so the times is right when they say let the people decide on the matter and manner of ideas. yet what is being said here and in the times is that people can decide for themselves on matters of speech and petition such as who to support or  when it comes to the free election process. however these same people can decide for themselves on ideas presented through a free press. what i am fighting for here is a right of expression just as free as that for which the new york times and other media fight in terms of constitutional rights.
. this day was a very rewarding experience. it shows what can be done when men of good will. men who believe in a cause. men who believe  only in legality but also morality of a cause join together to pass important legislation. it does  mean that the passage of this legislation will cure all the wrongs and ills in this country. unfortunately it does  mean that every black man in this country can get a house of his own choice because the bill does  go that far. but it is a giant step in the right direction. it will give hope. it will give encouragement  only to black americans but also white americans that the constitution of the united states means what it says. and that the way to achievement in the united states is  through violence or bloodshed but through orderly means under law and justice under law. so it has been a great experience. i trust that the house of representatives will follow suit and pass legislation in this session of congress so that we can have an effective piece of open housingcivil rights legislation which will become law. in conclusion i again wish to thank my distinguished colleagues whom i admire. respect. and love. and let me say that at this moment the senate stands proud.
. the members of this body can. consistent with their oaths to support the constitution of the united states. act affirmatively upon the provisions of this title. i wish to extend my thanks and appreciation to the senator from maryland for the efforts he is making to strip the safe streets and crime control act of its undesirable features. i hope that the senate will vote to strike all of title ii from this bill.
i thank my distinguished colleague. . i oppose this amendment. despite my firm conviction that it would be held wholly ineffectual as contravening constitutional limits. because it would symbolize to the american people a weakening in the commitment of their elected representatives to the rule of law and orderly constitutional processes. each of us has taken an oath to uphold the constitution and adhere vigorously to the rule of law. our constitution. and court decisions which interpret it. must  be compromised by the appearance of congressional defiance lest we open the door to lasting and potentially disastrous erosion of our basic freedoms. the very strength of our demdcratic system proceeds from the protection of individual rights as embodied in the constitution and we must forcefully resist any attempt to thwart the constitution or to destroy the fundamental role of the courts in enforcing fundamental freedoms. yet this amendment would inevitably lead to a devastating confrontation between the supreme court and congress. which would weaken both branches and undermine the confidence of americans in our ability to govern. the measure seeks to undo a long line of supreme court decisions defining the constitutional obligations of public educational authorities to provide a desegregated education for all our nations children. the outcome of the confrontation is predictable. the court and constitution would prevail over the congress. in the process. the amendment would be revealed for what it really ismuch sound and fury signifying hing. it. would signify a lack of courage on the part of congress to make clear our constitutional obligation and to tell the people that what some may desire of us. we can deliver. in short. it would be an exercise in hypocrisy and would be perceived as such by the american people. moreover. by rekindling old antagonisms and encouraging public resistance to lawful court orders by unlawfuland possibly. violentmeans. it would jeopardize the progress being made in school districts across the country which have come to accept desegregation as a way of life.
. i regret that the senate did  vote to recommit the ination of judge griffin bell. i sincerely believe that the senate acted precipitously in this matter. sufficient questions and contradictions. coupled with a lack of corroboration by witnesses and concrete evidence. and a record replete with evasion mandated a fuller hearing by the committee and a more thorough analysis of the record by my colleagues. i do  believe that partisan considerations should force us to abrogate our constitution and senatorial responsibility in this regard. and i am disappointed that our deliberations assumed a partisan cast. judge bell has  been confirmed as attorney general. it is a difficult job. requiring great sensitivity. courage. discretion. and integrity. i am certain that we all wish him well. regardless of our position on his confirmation. but i am equally confident that judge bell has promises to keep. he has pledged the justice departments vigorous advocacy for civil rights. for a judiciary and an fbi with integrity. vigor and authority. he has promised that he will avoid politicization of his high and important office. he has promised to avoid conflicts of interest. and to enforce this precept throughout the department of justice. these glowing promises are part of the record. you can be sure that this part of the record will be vigilantly and consistently monitored by all of us who believe that the attorney general. as the highest legal officer in the land. must restore the confidence of the american people in our legal institutions. must be above reproach and must be dedicated to many of the principles which judge bell himself  espouses.
. i am about to end my daily contact with members of the senate. i do so to accept membership on the supreme court of the united states. i value infinitely the friendships i have formed in the senate. and i hope those friendships will continue as long as i live. i want members of the senate to feel at home in my judicial chambers across the plaza. and therefore i invite those who conveniently can do so to attend a brief informal reception in those chambers. and i invite them to bring their families.. this reception will be held at 12:30 oclock next monday aftern. october 1. closely following the open session of the court. beginning at n. during which i shall have taken my oath of office. it has been an inspiration for me to serve in the senate since january 3. 1941. and to share here in helping to win the war and lay the foundations for international and domestic postwar stability. i have here deepened my conviction that our constitutional government is so well built that change of any one official seriously disturbs the stability of it. i am equally convinced. however. that the government serves the people effectively only in proportion as its officials understand the everchanging needs of all our people. provides constructive policies to meet those needs. and interprets with dependable impartiality the laws which declare those policies. - in my new assignment i shall have the obligation  to make but to interpret the laws. the treaties. and the constitution of the united states. i shall deem it a privilege. in that capacity. to cooperate with all branches of our government. therefore i shall  befar away from here either in fact or in spirit. i thank the members of the senate and. through them. the people of the united states for the increased faith they have given me in the priceless value of a free and representative government under a constitution designed to insure equal justice under law to all the people. i k of place in america where one can contribute more to justice for all than as a member of the supreme court. and i welcome the opportunity. i shall do my best to be worthy of my new trust. so help me god.
the defense department has attempted. particularly recently. to perform this overall. coordinating function. i think considerable advance was made under secretary mcnamara. i do  agree with all his decisions. but his policies were in the right direction. secretary laird is conscious of his responsibility here. very deeply conscious of it. but. after all. this is still within the executive branch. and for the president of the united states to perform his function does  satisfy the constitution if congress is  also meeting its responsibilities. the only body. the only group of people in the world. who can challenge a decision by the president is congress. the president is bound to get from people he seeks advice from. the advice they think he wants to hear. only in this body. in congress. particularly in the senate. with its longer term of office. with its overlapping terms. terms overlapping one administration. does there exist the political independence which can provide the real criticism in a constructive way. but deep criticism. of administration policy when it may be going wrong. so it is almost criminalindeed. it is perhaps criminal in the highest sensefor congress to abdicate its responsibility for its own decision. on the basis of its own information. derived from its own study. on these great policy questionsforeign relations. international commitments. and the great strategic weapons policies and the defense policies which support the decisions that are made. finally. . only congress has the capacity and the political independence. to perform this function. the job. of course. goes far beyond the carrier issue to which our amendment is addressed. but if we mean what we have said before in this session. in reasserting the role of congress in the formation of foreign policy and defense policy. then i urge. with all the sincerity at my command. that this amendment is a very sound place to start.
i do  want to seem to be technical and legal. but i must ask the senator to get away from the idea that the attorney general is suing for persons. he is suing for the united states to assert what is a right guaranteed by the federal constitution to all persons. he is  suing specifically for a. b. or c. let me give the senator an example. suppose i were a negro in the senators state. and that i wanted to go to the state university. let us suppose that the university would  admit me. i would sue. thereupon. a court order would be issued that i must be admitted. however. let us suppose that the attorney general of the united states sues. he would sue to open the doors of the state university to negro students. a number of negro students might get the benefit and advantage of such a suit. but the attorney general would sue to open the doors of the university to negro students. he would  sue just to get john jones. negro. into the state university.
i posed that as strictly a hypothetical situation as an influence which might affect a crime rate. certainly. the crime rate in south carolina is infinitely better than it is in many southern states. if we are going to compare crime rates without any of the side issues which go into these matters. we are  going to get anywhere in fixing attention on the main point. which i think is this: while we respect fully the sincerity of persons like the senator from south carolina and the social situation in southern states. we can neither condone it as being consistent with the constitution of the united states  can we allow red herrings to be drawn across the trail. in short. it is answer to a deprivation of civil rights to say the crime rate is higher where such rights are granted than where they are . though in south carolina the record is better than it is in many southern states. it is  what it ought to be. but it is better than most. but we can get our gaze distracted from the main issue. because if the constitution is to be observed in this country. as the junior senator from new york has pointed out. then it will have to be preserved also in a historically great and important section of the country. if the constitution is flouted in an important section of the country. then it has an effect on the whole moral condition of the entire country. we do  doubt the sincerity of the senator in referring to the crime statistics. the important thing is that the public mind should  be distracted in this hassle from the main point. the fact is that the constitution requires us to give equality of opportunity in every area. to wit. civil rights to every citizen. regardless of race. creed. or color. we should  permit ourselves to be distracted either by the fact that the distinguished senator can say that the crime rate is greater in new york than it is in south carolina. because we can start locking people behind a compound. as they do in south africa. in order to deal with crime in our country. we must deal with crime in a constitutional way he is much beloved. he is one of the most accommodating and friendly senators. we happen to have this fundamental difference. in fairness. my colleague has taken up the cudgels. quite properly. what we are seeking to avoid is having a red herring drawn across the trail. that is the reason why i thought this matter should be nailed down.
i was  citing the lady in question as my authority for my position. all i was doing was directing attention to a documentation of the cases which i had found up to a certain date. which is useful to any legal researcher. the authorities on this issue are the supreme court of the united states. the other courts. the constitution of the united states. and certainly i am  invoking as an authority the author of this article. for all i k. she may deserve to be relied on. i do  k. therefore. i am  utilizing this article for that purpose at all. i have just referred my colleagues to a compendium of cases upon this subject matter. anations are helpful in legal research. that is the only purpose for which i have invoked this article.
is it the senators view that the congress should interpret the constitution and pass laws implementing its interpretation. or does the senator believe that the supreme court has the authority to interpret the constitution. and that the congress may then accept that interpretation and pass laws implementing it.
. the next case is that of gomillion v. lightfoot (270 f. 2d 594). this is a famous case in alabama. decided in 1958. it is the result of the gerrymandering. as the curbstone saying goes. by the alabama legislature of the boundaries of the city of tuskegee. the city. as my colleague from new york has just brought out. in which the famous tuskegee institute is located. this decision effectively disfranchises all but 10 of the 400 negroes living in the city. the reason for their disfranchisement was that they could  vote in tuskegee in the city election because of the gerrymandering. although they were perfectly qualified to vote. they could  vote. they were effectively barred from voting. the miity opinion in that case. which is also before the supreme court. was rendered by judge brown. who said: the effect of the act is clear. the district court so found. as the boundaries are redefined by said act  140. the municipality of tuskegee resembles a sea dragon. the effect of the act is to remove from the municipality of tuskegee all but four or five of the qualified voters and e of the qualified white voters (167 f. supp. 407) (p. 608). s * * * * * for there can be relief at the polls for those who can register and vote. bigniflcantly the complaint in this case further alleged: "macon county had board of registrars to qualify applicants for voter registration for more than 18 months. from january 16. 1956. to june 3. 1957. plaintiffs allege that the reason for macon county board of registrars is that almost all of the i white persons possessing the qualification - to vote in said county are already registered. > whereas thousands of negroes. who possess if the qualifications. are  registered and e can vote." it was this fact. incidentally. a which gave rise to the necessity of the disi missal of a cause of action against the board - of registrars of macon county for discriminatory practices in registration (united a states v. state of alabama (5 cir.. 1959. 261 f. 2d 808)). in macon county. of whict o tuskegee is a geographical part. neither tho a constitution  congress  the courts ar o thus far able to assure negro voters of tht )r basic right (p. 611). .e. * t- this case differs from all cases involvini o successful complaints of discrimination un der the 14th and 15th amendments in tha is there is effective remedy. an injunctioi ie will enable a citizen to voteif he lives ib o- a voting district where an election is held f it is an empty right when he does  liv it in a voting district. the best that thi i- court could do for the plaintiffs would b he to declare act 140 of 1957 invalid. ther ). is hing to prevent the legislature of ala bama from adopting a new law redefining tuskegee town limits. perhaps with small changes. or perhaps a series of laws. each of which might also be held unconstitutional. each decision of the court and each act of the legislature progressively increasing the strain on federalstate relations (p. 615). in short. the situation is unmanageable. if we intervene we shall only intensify the very dispute we are asked to settle. and federal courts have missionfrom the constitution or from that brooding omnipresence of higher law so often as influence on constitutional decisionsto find a judicial solution for every political problem presented in a complaint that makes a strong appeal to the sympathies of the court. to repeat the words of chief justice john marshall: "if courts were permitted to indulge their sympathies. a case better calculated to excite them can scarcely be imagined. * * * [buti such an interposition by the court * * savors too much of the exercise of political power to be within the proper province of the judicial department" (p. 616).
if the senator will permit me. i should like to finish my remarks first. if i may. there is question in my mind. . we are  bound by the arguments made by one of the contending parties. especially by the losing party. we are bound by the points which have been found by the court. i think i have very clearly set forth the points made by the court. one peripheral point. my colleague from louisiana has made great material of the fact. as he says. that there is literacy test in his state. i do  k what my colleague from louisiana calls it. but the attorney general of his state says there is a literacy test. i quote from page 36 of his brief. in which he says: if the governments position is correct they have said in effect that the character and literacy test required under the louisiana state constitution is of effect. hing could be further from the law. as a matter of fact. there is a literacy test. except that a prospective voter may either speak or write in the english language or in "his mother tongue." it seems to me very clear. and i draw the clear conclusion from all this study and deliberation. that there is . and could  be. any setting aside of the constitutional mandate for state qualification to obtain. second. that it was  set aside in the decision in united states against thomas. in the u.s. supreme court. third. that what the court said was that if the state applies its qualification in a discriminatory way. it will be so applied by the united states. by the courts. and i have doubt by any federal official appointed to register voters. fourth. if the state shows. by its own discriminatory practices. that it is defining its qualification requirements in a certain way. the courts will follow the way in which the state says there is qualification. in substance. finally. matter what anyone does. he can change the constitution.  does anyone wish to do so. i therefore state affirmatively that any provisions in the bill before the senate to have a federal official cause voters to be registered who are discriminated against by virtue of their race or color would follow the state qualification. i find hing that contradicts that. either in this case or in any applicable law i have been able to examine.
i am glad the senator has made those points clear. i was about to come to them. i appreciate the senators intercession. because it anticipates what i was about to say. the idea of applying the registrar proposal to the whole of the election process is based upon researches which the senator from illis and i have had pursued by a very distinguished group of law school professors. primarily from two law schools. namely. yale university and the university of pennsylvania. the general legal theory which backs up the registrar proposal within this compass is that in the case of federal elections the federal government. under the constitution. has the right to determine the time. place. and manner by which they shall be held. though the qualification remains the qualification prescribed by the state. and in the case of state elections the federal jurisdiction is based upon the 15th amendment. we see reason. in law. why the authority to the president to make a conclusive egh finding to include both the 15th amendment and the provision inherent in the constitution can be combined under the authority given to one federal officer. all the power which he exercised would still be subject to the judicial jurisdiction. in terms of due process of law. equal protection of the laws. and other questions which are properly raised in court. but the point is that both authorities of the federal government may be married in the one officer. based upon an adequate finding to give the basis for jurisdiction by the president. that is one approach. it is essentially the federal civil rights commissions approach. however. as the senator from illis has properly pointed out. it has  been designed to meet the needs of the situation and give a broader base by requiring a larger number of complaints. that is one alternative which the senate should have before it. coming as it does. from so authoritative a source as the federal civil rights commission. which investigated this subject with such care. it seems to me that it would be almost improper. in our own interest and in the interest of the country.  to submit. in debate. this authoritative proposal to the senate. at the other end of the spectrum comes the voting referee proposal. i k that my colleague from fllis is  very enthusiastic about the voting referee proposal. nevertheless. i must state in all honesty that if all else fails. i shall support the voting referee proposal. and i hope very much that it will be supported by a majority of the senate. i say that because it at least represents a method by which there may be broaderscale registration for voting than individual litigation by the individual registered voter would produce. that is already an important step forward. also i think that we must  forget that where we meet very tough opposition. which will go to any extreme in order to frustrate the right of the individual to vote. the voting referee is an officer with real impact. because he is an officer of the court in the area. and the contempt power of the court is there. to back up the decrees which the court makes upon the recommendations of that kind of referee. that is a very powerful position. indeed. in my opinion. it is the most powerful of any position in the range of all the alternatives which will be available to the senate. true. it has its complexities. in that it is based on litigation in a particular court. with all the opportunities for delay which that gives. but it is a very strong remedy. and in my opinion will be absolutely essential in the socalled hard core cases in areas where there is the most pronced resistance. with every artifice and every device utilized to frustrate the right to vote of certain members of that particular community. on grounds of race or color. those are the two opposite ends of the propositionthe voting registrar. as i have described him. and the voting referee. if it should please the senate to try to find some amalgam of those propositions. i k that the senate will have an opportunity. if it does  prefer to accept the registrar proposal. to vote upon a combined proposal. popularly identified by the names of the senator from pennsylvania and myself. that proposal was offered and then withdrawn. so that. quite properly. the pure registrar proposal could be submitted first. the combined proposal has. in my opinion. a great deal to commend it. the main aspect which commends it. of course. is the fact that it does represent an amalgam of views. pounded out in negotiation and joint draftsmanship among a group of lawyers from both sides of the aisle. the combined proposal uses as its fulcrum a case under the 1957 act. and provides that when a case has been brought which results in a decree that there is a pattern or a practice of discrimination on grounds of race or color. which denies people the right to register and vote. the appointment of an officer may move in either direction. it may move toward the voting referee. or the attorney general may use a finding in that case as the basis for requesting the president to appoint a federal enrollment officer. it may move. then. in the other direction. aher great advantage of that proeedure is that it enables one to deal with the hard core case where there is a tough proposition--a tough nut to crack. so to speakin a county. as well as to deal generally with respect to other counties. in a way which permits of the most competent facility for registering a large number of people. these. then. are the three alternatives which. in my opinion. the senate should have an opportunity to consider. through the wonderfully fine work of my colleague from lis [. i say that this is the united states. and this is the u.s. senate. and i sincerely hope that we will be able to realize this tremendous potential in human addition to the total national store of resources which is available to us in this field by getting the franchise for so many hundreds of thousands of americans who. withstanding the constitution. have been denied the franchise. i have made these remarks  in any forensic wayand there are only a few senators on the floor. although those who are here are very distinguishedand certainly  with any hope of swaying anyone with my eloquence. but because i believe these things must be said. so that members of the senate may have clearly before them the pattern which is expected to be followed in respect of these proposals to which we will address ourselves in the senate. and so that all members may have an understanding at least equal to that of those of us who have been working so actively on this subject. and thereby. perhaps. will be able to judge better how they might vote on particular proposals by having a concept of the whole of the area of opportunity which will be available to the senate.
the senator is exactly correct. yet every one of the others is a state law designed to frustrate the constitution. so much. then. for the emous complication of laws designed to frustrate what the supreme court has decided in terms of the constitution. i invite the attention of my colleagues again to the often expressed idea that what the supreme court has decided is  the law of the land.  what the constitution says. when the supreme court rendered the famous decisions. from dred scott down. including the railroad rate cases. the slaughterhouse cases. and dozens of other cases. our colleagues from the south were the first to be out in front telling us. "this is the law of the land. it must be obeyed. if citizens wish to be true americans they must recognize that the law of the land is the constitution as interpreted by the supreme court." what was good then is good . if plessy against ferguson was excellent law. as our colleagues from the south contended. brown against board of education is equally good law. in terms of whether or  it ought to be enforced as the law of the united states.
. i should first like to pay my respects to the distinguished argument made by the senator from oregon . supplemented by the senator from colorado . i wish to address myself to that part of the argument of our good friend and proponent of the amendment which deals with the following points: the senator from oklahoma said that we should  throw into the ashcan the historic concept of interstate commerce. he said also that we should  pass a bill because the supreme court will let us get away with it. i think this concept of the amendment is one that implies somehow or other the senate will invoke a rule of interstate commerce which we might get away with in the supreme court. and which according to the senator from oklahoma. will depart from the fundamental. traditional concept of interstate commerce. if that argument be valid. it is a very respectable argument and deserves attention. the only difficulty is that the argument is  valid. it is interesting to me that many people who think they are liberal are always talking about turning the clock back. this amendment would turn the clock back about 30 years when we decided this question of policy long ago. we decided that what we talk about with respect to the power of congress is the power to regulate the facilities and instrumentalities of interstate commerce. therefore. congress can regulate anything that can be done in a state. if it is burdening interstate commerce. that question was. as i said. decided over three decades ago. why. because time marches on. there are department stores in the state of new york that are several times as large as some chains which the amendment of the senator from oklahoma would reach. we can tell the people in the state of new york that there is competition for retail business in new york from the retail stores in newark. n.j.. in greenwich and stamford. conn. we can tell the people of kansas city. mo.. that there is competition for the retail business there from kansas city. kans. we can tell the people of philadelphia that there is competition for retail business there from the stores in camden. n.j. in short. the dynamics of commerce have been such as to require the courts to keep up with the times. what is the genius of the constitution. the genius of the constitution is that it is an instrument which can deal with what happens. withstanding the fact that some 178 years ago one dreamed that it would happen. that circumstance is what makes the constitution a great instrument. do i hear senators who advocate agreement to this amendment inveighing against the sherman antitrust law. will they tell us that we can prosecute someone for price fixing when they do an emous business in the state of new york with goods passing into the state of new york from other states. even though it comes to rest in the state of new york. when such price fixing would affect the price of goods all over the united states. will they argue that such is  the case. what is the difference between burdening interstate commerce on questions of labor. including the picket lines of which my friend speaks. and burdening interstate commerce by paying sweatshop wages. in some states sweatshop wages are paid. and the goods sold in such states compete with other retail goods which cross state lines. if one wishes to appeal to the law. the cases on the point sustain the view i urge. we are  trying to get away with anything in terms of what the supreme court might do. it is always well to read the original law. the constitution does  contain the words used in the present argument. the constitution provides. "to regulate commerce." mind that word-"regulate." that word has  been mentioned here. the provision of the constitution is "to regulate commerce with foreign nations. and among the several states. and with indian tribes." "to regulate" means to deal with those aspects of commerce which represent an impediment or burden upon it. it is said by senators in a sweeping wayand where they get it i do  kin respect to the supreme court. "why. if the supreme court goes along with the bill. then the federal government can regulate anything." i doubt very much that any lawyer so believes. anyone who reads the cases ks how often the court has reversed on the ground of absence of the interstate commerce qualification for jurisdiction.
finally. . that this is a pretty fair and a pretty hoable american jury. this is their verdict. it seems to me that every one of us here. as much as he has concern for the foreign and domestic policy of the united states. has a right to have concern for the policy which is pursued in defiance of the constitution and laws of the united states in a sovereign state of the united states. we  only have a right. we have a duty. to speak. we have a duty to wear ourselves out in the process of seeing that these wrongs are righted. to whom must these people appeal. to the legislatures of their states. which pass laws against them. or to the congress of the united states. which should be anxious to see that equal justice is brought to them. i hope and pray that those who disagree. or who feel that this report is unfair. or that it misstates the facts. or that it does  do justice. will come here and say so. i think that is highly desirable. but i think the american people have a right to draw their own conclusions from whatever may be shown in that debate. the american people have the right to place the greatest credence in a committee which was heartsick at things going on in the very state where they lived and who did  realize what was going on right next door to them.
 will have the full support of the overwhelming majority of the people of the countryincluding many who do  agree in the matter of desegregation of the public schools. but who agree on the proposition that the laws of the land may  be flouted by any gover. matter how pleasant he may appear on televisionand that the people. as well as the congress. will approve the use of the authority of the united states under the constitution of the united states. i hope the administration is laying its plans to show that it intends to see that the laws are upheld. because the children have the right to an education under the laws of the united states. and that the necessary court actions. recommendations to congress. and federal authority may be used. so that govergover wallace or any other govermay flout the laws of the united states. on some theory of interposition which has basis in law. and which may result.  in a rule of law but in a rule of anarchy.
i point out to the senator that it is written in the constitution that any childwhatever may be his coloris entitled to equal protection of the laws. which the supreme court has held means an equal right with any other child to an education. that is the right which is being denied. and it is the right we are seeking to assert for such children in the proposed legislation. the point that i do  understandand i should like to have the senators comment upon itis how senators from southern states can argue consistently that every other federal law is satisfactory to them and is applicable to them. but that the interpretation of the constitution by the supreme court to which the senator has referred is  applicable.
there are many things in our government that must work by selfdiscipline. the congress could sit on its hands and  give any agency of the government a dime. we could destroy the country. and there is provision in the constitution which states that we must vote money. one could draw a penny from the treasury if we did  vote for the appropriation. the supreme court could do the same thing. it will . we shall . provided we are dignified and cooperative with each other. that is the purpose of the resolution.
. we have together made the following statement: the tragic week in selma. ala.. which began with the brutal suppression of a peaceful march for voting rights last sunday and is seemingly ending with a boston clergyman. attacked by segregationist toughs. lying mortally woundedhas shocked all decent citizens. such acts also demonstrated once again the total inadequacy of our nations law in the field of execessive police action. as have the attempts to prosecute those accused of murdering three civil rights workers in mississippi last summer. it is a travesty on our constitution that the question can be askedas it is by thousands of our constituents every day: "why cant the federal government put a stop to this kind of thing." the answer is that. short of sending in federal troops. federal law is  adequate to meet this kind of deprivation by violence and terror of the rights guaranteed by the 14th and 15th amendments. and that without law our constitution is  sufficiently selfenforcing. the bill we are introducing today would remedy the most glaring defects in the law to give the federal government. and the victims of unlawful official violence. a series of remedies against the kind of police terror seen in selma last sunday. (at this point mr. tydings took the chair as presiding officer.)
finally. i ask the senator how the senator would feel about a county. even such as those described. which had an actual record of discrimination. which prevented registration for voting as the constitution contemplates. and then had currently brought itself up to par. would the senator feel we had at least the right to test in court the bona fides of that activity. the likelihood of its continuance. and whether there has been some measurable catchup over all the inequities of the past.
. i have mentioned cases. let us see what the supreme court has said as recently as march 8. 1965. in louisiana against united states. i read from page 2 of the memorandum of opinion: from the adoption of the 1921 interpretation test until 1944that is. 23 yearsthe district courts opinion stated. the percentage of registered voters in louisiana who were negroes never exceeded 1 percent. prior to 1944 negro interest in voting in louisiana had been slight. largely because the states white primary law had kept negroes from voting in the democratic party primary election. the only election that mattered in the political climate of that state. in 1944. however. this court invalidated the substantially identical white primary law of texas. and with the explicit statutory bar to their voting in the primary removed and because of a generally heightened political interest. negroes in increasing numbers began to register in louisiana. the white primary system had been so effective in barring negroes from voting that the interpretation test as a disfranchising device had fallen into disuse. many registrars continued to ige it after 1944. and in the next dozen years the proportion of registered voters who were negroes rose from twotenths of 1 percent to approximately 15 percent by march 1956. this fact. coupled with this courts 1954 invalidation of laws requiring school segregation. prompted. the state to try new devices to keep the white citizens in control. the louisiana legislature created a committee which became -kn as the segregation committee to seek means of accomplishing this goal. the chairman of this committee also helped to organize a semiprivate group called the association of citizens councils. which thereafter acted in close cooperation with the legislative committee to preserve white supremacy. i remind the senate that i am still reading the opinion of the u.s. supreme court. it is  my opinion. it is theirs. continuing reading: the legislative committee and the citizens councils set up programs. which parish voting registrars were required to attend. to instruct the registrars on how to promote white political control. the committee and the citizens councils also began a wholesale challenging of negro names already on the voting polls. with the result that thousands of negroes. but virtually whites. were purged from the rolls of voters. beginning in the middle 1950s. registrars of at least 21 parishes began to apply the interpretation test. in 1960 the state constitution was amended to require every applicant thereafter to "be able to understand" as well as "give a reasonable interpretation" of any section of the state or federal constitution "when read to him by the registrar." the state board of registration in cooperation with the segregation committee issued orders that all parish registrars must strictly comply with the new provisions. the interpretation test. the court found. vested in the voting registrars a virtually uncontrolled discretion as to who should vote and who should . i state parenthetically as a fact that in those 21 parishes. although the registration of white persons was increasing. the registration of negroes dropped. under the states statutes and constitutional provisions the registrars. without any objective standard to guide them. determine the manner in which the interpretation test is to be given. whether it is to be oral or written. the length and complexity of the sections of the state or federal constitutions to be understood and interpreted and what interpretation is to be considered correct. here is a profound statement by the supreme court: there was ample evidence to support the district courts finding that registrars in the 21 parishes where the test was found to have been used had exercised their broad powers to deprive otherwise qualified negro citizens of their right to vote. and that the existence of the test as a hurdle to voter qualification has in itself deterred and will continue to deter negroes from attempting to register in louisiana. because of the virtually unlimited discretion vested by the louisiana laws in the registrars of voters. and because in the 21 parishes where the interpretation test was applied that discretion had been exercised to keep negroes from voting because of their race. the district court held the interpretation test invalid on its face and as applied as a violation of the 14th and 15th amendments to the u.s. constitution and of 42 u.s.c. 1971(a).
. the second pointand a critically important pointis the record of gover coleman. numerous statements made by the gover. which would seem to characterize him as a convinced segregationist. have been brought to our attention. such statements are contained in the record. indeed. the attorney general of the united states was the first witness before the subcommittee. which is a most unusual procedure in the consideration of a judicial post of this character. in testifying in support of the ination. the attorney general himself was conscious of the record of gover coleman as a declared segregationist and a person who believes in separation of the races in matters which are within the determination of law and public policy. such conduct is contrary. in my judgment. to the decisions of the u.s. supreme court. the laws made by congress. and the constitution of the united states. the attorney general characterized those statements to us as statements which were made in the heat of a political campaign and which did  necessarily indicate the true character of the inee. gover coleman was faced with these statements. where goier coleman had doubts about whether he uttered the statement. he told us of those doubts. i believe that what i am stating  is fair to him in terms of the statements which he agreed he had made and which he had every reason to suppose. according to his recollection. he did make. i shall cover the dates from the time when mr. coleman became gover. which was in 1955. through the time when he ceased to be gover. which was at the very end of 1959. and during the political campaign of 1963. which is a fairly recent date. because gover coleman again sought to be gover by running in a primary at that time. at that time. mr. coleman again gave utterance to statements which i believe are of exactly the same character as that displayed when he was gover of mississippi. i point out. too. that this is really. in essence. what finally persuaded me. between 1963 and the last of his public utterances in july 1965 when he testified before the subcommittee. he had uttered contrary views. it was only when he testified before the subcommittee in an effort. naturally. to qualify himself for a post which he undoubtedly wantsquite legitimately and properlythat he uttered views different from the views which he had expressed during his public life up to that moment. alsoand this is very importantthe best statement that he made to us was that he longer entertained such views. he very carefully did  say that. he said rather. that he felt in all honestyand i have already said that i believe he sincerely felt that waythat he could proceed in an objective way to pass on all of those laws in accordance with the decisions of the supreme court and the law as established by congress. and that he could. in good faith. carry out his responsibilities as a judge in those respects. i read the first statement. made on may -11. 1955: i here and  give the people of mississippi my solemn pledge that if i am elected gover there will be necessity to abolish the public schools.  will there be any mixing of the races in those schools. that statement was made on may 11. 1955. roughly 1 year after the decision in the brown against board of education case which determined that the separation of the races in the public schools was contrary to the constitution. on december 19. 1955. after the election. but just before he took office. he said: let there be misunderstanding. i am for segregation. mississippi will never integrate. on june 23. 1957. gover coleman said: i will be frank to say that i think the great majority of [negroes in mississippi] are  yet ready to vote. those have been my views publicly and they still are. gover coleman used the word "them." under the context of the statement which i will read. it is clear that he was speaking of the negroes in mississippi. i shall read the colloquy and then return to further references to the statements of the gover in order to bring it up to the dates to which i refer. on june 23. 1957. in an exchange on "meet the press"-which is certainly a prominent public programbetween mr. lawrence spivakwho is well kn to us all as the panel member on that programand gover coleman. a colloquy ensued. i have received this colloquy from the "meet the press" printed record. i referred to it in the hearings and suggested that it should be made a part of the record. although the record was printed before this colloquy was actually made available. i make complaint about that. the transcript is before us . i read it into the record:
. i think there is a commanding case for the state legislatures which have already acted to rescind the resolutions under which they have acted. i think that there is a commanding case for the state legislatures which have  acted to refuse to pass such resolutions. my belief in this regard compels me to speak at this time. what are the grounds for the fear of a constitutional convention such as contemplated by this kind of action. as i see it. there is a grave question of lawin my judgment. a question of law which probably must be resolved against its proponentsthat any legislature can limit the ambit of a constitutional convention by the resolution of request. i doubt very much that the congress of the united states can limit such a constitutional convention when it passes a measure of implementation concerning what is requested by the states. etheless. 29 states of the 32 which have already acted seek a convention for the specific purpose of adopting a single amendmentan amendment reversing the supreme courts decision on the popularly called oneman. onevote principle for apportionment of the state legislatures and other legislative bodies. i think a very grave question exists as to whether this can be done. a constitutional convention. even if elected under a congressional mandate that it could deal with only one subject. could run away. after all. it would be a duly created constitutional convention. and it could propose any amendments which it decided it wished to propose. subject to ratification. i doubt very much that such actions would be invalidated as far as action by the states for ratification purposes is concerned. the mere fact that congress in its resolution sought to restrict the action of the constitutional convention. certainly would  restrict the convention as a matter of law. in my judgment. to the specific issue contained in the resolutions already adopted by 29 states. the grounds for the fear that we would have a constitutional convention that would seek to rewrite the constitution of the united states. including the first 10 amendments. concern the separation of powers with respect to the various branches of government. the separation of church and state. and other essential guarantees. many of which have been today opposed and rescinded by many amendmentsand i feel  by any means a preponderate numberbecause of the decisions of the supreme court which are said to inhibitas in the case of confessions in criminal casesprosecutions for crime. there are other examples. as it is clear that even those legislatures which have acted have desire to rewrite the constitution. i do  believe that egh thought has been given to the matter before the resolutions were adopted so that the resolutions would be justified in view of the danger of having a constitutional convention which could  be controlled as a matter of law and confined to one subject. or which could. as a practical matter. be a runaway convention. there is the real ground involved. for we would invalidate the whole constitution of the united states upon which our whole society is based. including the bill of rights. the first 10 amendments. we have right to question these particular resolutions except with reason. i think there is a valid basis for questioning the 29 resolutions which are limited to the effort to call a constitutional convention to act on only a single question. aher question relates to the age of the resolutions. as a good many of them were sent to the 89th congress and  to the 90th congress. what is the effect of the resolutions which were apparently. as a practical matter. never received by congress. do memorials have the same effect as legal resolutions. what about simple petitions. can voters in states which have adopted resolutions sue for rescission of the resolutions which have been adopted. what about the situation in states which have  been reapportioned. a great many of the state legislatures which have acted were  reapportioned under the supreme court decision. can the courts compel congress to call a constitutional convention if congress should refuse to recognize the validity of some of these resolutions. i think there certainly is a right to question the validity and the legality of the procedure. aher question concerns the responsibility of congress. and whether congress must act. it is mandated to act under the constitution if the actions of the state legislatures are valid. however. i think there is such serious question as to the validity that if congress did  act based upon the resolutions already submitted. or if congress made some other disposition of these resolutions. it would be proceeding properly and legally. i think. therefore. that the question of discretion in this case resides in congress rather than the autoy which would seem to be indicated by the constitution if each of these resolutions could be accepted on its face as completely valid as to both the restrictions which are sought to be imposed and as to the conditions existing under its adoption by the particular legislature. there is even a legal question as to whether any of these resolutions can be rescinded. it seems to me that my participation in this matter can perhaps be of the most use in respect to that particular question. it is my profound conviction as a lawyer that those resolutions. until they are acted on by congress. are subject to rescission. i believe that the citizens of every state have a perfectly open and clear path. if they disagree with what their state legislatures have done. to see what they can do to have the legislatures rescind the action they have taken. i do  make any sinister charges. but in many cases. as the senator from maryland has pointed out. the resolutions were adopted without anyone king what was at stake. i believe the time for rescission is still with us. that rescission may be made by state legislatures. and that. if rescinded. the resolutions would longer be valid as petitions to have congress call a constitutional convention. i could  end my remarks without one word about reapportionment. the fact is that reapportionment appeared to be a matter of great concern to my party. yet i think it is fair to e that in the 1966 election. the first since reapportionment really got underway. my party made extaordinary gains in state senates. in state lower houses. and in goverships. we did much better than we did in 1964. we made a net gain of 153 seats in state senates. and 387 seats in state lower houses. the republican party  holds 40.9 percent of all seats in state legislatures. contrasted with only 33 percent in 1964. last year. the republicans made a net gain of eight goverships and significantly. won or retained control of the government in five of the nations seven most populous states. interestingly egh. the combined population of republicangoverned states is 108 million . while democrats govern only 80 million. this means that 17 republican govers represent almost 60 percent of the population. while 33 democratic govers represent only 40 percent of the population. it seems to me that this indicates that the fears that were entertained on this side of the aisle about the reapportionment movement have  shown up in the election statistics.
well. says state b where the riots will take place. "we can reach this fellow in state a as he was about to step on a bus to come into state b but the united states can get him." so there was room for federal jurisdiction. but here is a situation in state band state b has a police force. the laws. and everything needed to cope with a riotwhere we are bringing the united states into it. it seems to me that if we are going to do it for that. we ought to do it for armed robbery. or grand larceny. or for anything else. thus. the senate should understand that this particular section of the amendment which the senator from louisiana is going to have voted on shortly. would change the whole base of federal jurisdiction even to riots. longer would it be necessary for anyone to come from state a into state b. yet it would be a federal crime. if that is what the senate wants to do. we can stop it. but it seems to me it would be overturning the precedents of over 180 years.
. i have refrained until  from stating my views in detail with respect to the ination of judge clement f. haynsworth. jr.. to the u.s. supreme court because i wanted to allow myself and other senators ample time for a complete review of the merits of this ination. the hearings are  complete. the judiciary committee has filed its report. and the dissenting views are in. i have reviewed the record and i shall  state my view of the matter. it is my intention to vote against confirmation. i will do so because i have found. on reviewing the written opinions of judge haynsworth. particularly in racial segregation cases. that. without any derogation of him personally. his views on the application of the constitution to this most critical constitutional question of our time are so consistently out of date. so consistently insensitive to the centuriesold injustice which we as a nation have caused our black citizens to bear. that i could  support the introduction of judge haynsworths judicial philosophy into the nations highest court. i realize that there is much argument as to what should be the standard of decision for an individual senator in this case. whether it should include what is learned from a mans philosophy. from his decisions. after i have analyzed the cases which have brought me to this decision. i will deal with that question. also i do  pass on the question of ethics. that has been stated by other senators. we have just heard an interesting and illuminating debate on the issue among the senators from kentucky. south carolina. and indiana. obviously. those senators are divided in their views. as its determination was  necessary for my decision. i did  make it. that does  mean there is hing to it. i just found it unnecessary to decide that question "yes" or " and i do  feel that i should deal with it in the presentation of my reasons for voting " on this confirmation.
the reason i say that is  that the court could expand the constitution by including de facto if it were  constitutional to include it. but as this is a general statement of policy. it would be fair for the courts to say. "congress had asked us to consider de facto segregation as unconstitutional." it is strictly a fact.
 at all. i think it is a goal which we should as a nation seek to attain. but i do  believe that it should be set as a goal in such a way as to cripple the effort to do something we can do something about. and i say that is the result of the effort to try to put it all on the same basis. i do  believe it deserves to be on the same basis. and i shall explain why. i do  think it can be on the same basis or should be. the fact is that under the constitution . de jure segregationto wit. segregation which is the heritage of a dual school system enforced by state lawis unlawful. we have  yet eliminated it. we have a right to try to eliminate that. at the same time that we move to raise our national sights to deal with other problemsto wit. segregation attributable to racial patterns. and so forthking full well that it will take a long time to change the latter. and insofar as the latter is being used as an excuse for unlawful segregation under the constitution. it is reachable under the constitution today. when senator ribicoff saysi think this is the gravamen of his complaintthat. in city after city. lifnes have been drawn to encourage the separation of the races. to encourage the development of residentially segregated housing patterns. and to encourage the improvement of some schools at the expense of others. he states. in my judgment. the demurrable cause of action under the laws that exist today. the amendment we have brought in. this policy. will require the department of justice to go after those practices just as hard in the th as they do in the south. and i am all for it. in short.  said. almost in the same words. in terms of meeting this problem.
one more minute. all that i am saying is that because of what has arisen. it is time to deal with the question specifically. so that. for example. conceivably congress would authorize the president to do so and so and so and so. and we would authorize ourselves to do whatever else ought to be done. that would be a law. as it is . it is implied. senator hruska argues that that implication is valid under the constitution because of the presidents executive authority to administer the law. and he quotes justice potter stewart. i am  criticizing that. i only point out that it is implied. even if the courts say it is lawfully implied. it is still by implication. and the circumstances which have arisen in the country dictate a need for specificity. because it is  we who are concerned.  some government official who is running out with papers under his arm. or some spy or aid to a spy who is going to leak it to somebody else. it is the senate or the house of representatives.
. if we fall for that. then we are  looking at the country through the right end of the telescope but through the wrong end. i repeat: this doctrine of desegregation was long overdue in this country. under the constitution and under morality. the supreme court has given us a good doctrine. let us  forsake it .
. i believe that there is a great unmet need to make legal services readily available to all of the american people. we are very proud in this nation of our tradition of equal justice for every individual regardless of race. creed or ecoic or social status. we are justly proud that our constitution and our entire political tradition requires that "due process" and "equal protection" of the law be accorded to every person. that each man should receive "his due" is one of the great values of our way of life. adoption of this legislation would be perfectly consistent with prior congressional actions in the area of broadening access to legal services. it will add impetus to the  growing field of private prepaid legal services and legal insurance. it will help to make available to millions of americans the protections which the law and our political tradition promises to everyone. by mr. magnuson (for himself and mr. pearson) (by request):
the department of justice has been alert to the fact that that can happen elsewhere. i have a right to speak to that. i think. with some kind of feeling. just as the senator has a right to speak to his proposition. inasmuch as three large counties and the largest city in the united states. in my own state. have been covered. as they should be. i always argued that in respect of civil rights law. and that is the way it should be. but . to try to break the back of this law with a burden of activity which is  called for by the constitution or the decisions of the courts is just aher way of beating what we are trying to do. when the steam of the legislation makes it unnecessary. by virtue of the fact that you have coverage where coverage is due under this bill. and to seal up any of the holes in it. the attorney general can sue in any given situation.
