i am grateful to my colleagues on the appropriations committee. senator bennett and senator kohl. for giving us an opportunity to discuss this matter on the floor. let me just underscore a few of the points that senator reed has made. first. everyone involved with this situation agrees that depopulation is the best strategy for dealing with the problem. the rhode island division of agriculture. the state veterinarian. and the farmer favor depopulation and disinfection. and i understand that aphis has been successful in taking. this approach with poultry operations in virginia and texas. second. it is evident that without some compensation. the farm will face bankruptcy. maintaining the viability of rhode islands family farms is a critical element of our efforts to preserve the states character. as well as the natural landscape. third. i am told that in rare circumstances. low pathogenic forms of avian influenza can transform into high pathogenic organisms that pose serious threats to human health.  surprisingly. the presence of avian influenza on american poultry and egg farms is a matter of grave concern to our trading partners. one wants to give the virus and opportunity to mutate. given the risks associated with avian influenza and the clear evidence that the current protocol was  successful in containing the original connecticut outbreak. i am anxious to find a solution to this problem. i thank the chairman and ranking member for working with us. and hope that language directing aphis to provide the necessary financial assistance can be included in the bill.
i am grateful to my colleagues on the appropriations committee. senator bennett and senator kohl. for giving us an opportunity to discuss this matter on the floor. let me just underscore a few of the points that senator reed has made. first. everyone involved with this situation agrees that depopulation is the best strategy for dealing with the problem. the rhode island division of agriculture. the state veterinarian. and the farmer favor depopulation and disinfection. and i understand that aphis has been successful in taking. this approach with poultry operations in virginia and texas. second. it is evident that without some compensation. the farm will face bankruptcy. maintaining the viability of rhode islands family farms is a critical element of our efforts to preserve the states character. as well as the natural landscape. third. i am told that in rare circumstances. low pathogenic forms of avian influenza can transform into high pathogenic organisms that pose serious threats to human health.  surprisingly. the presence of avian influenza on american poultry and egg farms is a matter of grave concern to our trading partners. one wants to give the virus and opportunity to mutate. given the risks associated with avian influenza and the clear evidence that the current protocol was  successful in containing the original connecticut outbreak. i am anxious to find a solution to this problem. i thank the chairman and ranking member for working with us. and hope that language directing aphis to provide the necessary financial assistance can be included in the bill.
. the fight against the meat price rollback has  become a fight to scuttle the whole defense production act unless the country meets the terms of the meat producers. it has indeed become a test to determine whether ours is to be a consumers ecoy in which case the rollback will stand or a producers ecoy in which case it will fall. pricewage stabilization is the way to keep order at home and to give our people the heart to do a heroic job on defense mobilization. the pinch is really coming in 1952 when vast quantities of our basic materials like steel and at least 20 percent of total production will be used for military purposes. i suggest. as one representative. that the country speak up before it is too late and insist on a renewed and strengthened defense production act or find that we have been overwhelmed by an inflationary flood at home distracting to and crippling our energies from the vital task abroad. as to the meat producers themselves. dissatisfied apparently with 128 percent of paritythe price after the rollbacksthey should read the signs of the times. first. in new york city with retail sales of beef estimated to be off 50 percent and steak at $1.32 a pound. second. the recommendations of the defense board for meat that meat for united states armed forces overseas be bought abroad. new york health commissioner john f. mahoney said yesterday that beef is  essential to health * when other good food is available. in our country the people have a way of putting misguided special interest in their place. this is the time to begin.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point an article in the april 1963 issue of health news. a publication of the new york state department of health. entitled "health services for migrant farm workers."
. could we have a unanimousconsent agreement that. on the twoshift operation. one shift will be equal rights and the other shift will be occupational health and safety. that would  intrude on the farm bill.
. i urge the passage of s. 2818. this bill would prohibit the administration of the drug diethylstibestroldes--a synthetic estrogen used therapeutically in certain human diseases and to fatten cattle as a feed additive and implantto any animal intended for use as food. immediately as a feed additive and as an implant on december 31. 1972. unless the secretary of the department of health. education. and welfare affirmatively determines otherwise. des is universally recognized as a carcien for animals and most expert witnesses. including the director of the national cancer institute. also feel that des is a carcien for human beings. the director of the national cancer institute of the national institutes of health has stated that an important component of this nations allout effort to conquer cancer will be the reduction of mans carcienic burden. i support that view and agree that anything that increases the carcienic burden to man ought to be eliminated from the environment if at all possible. the food and drug administration has stated that "effective immediately. all production of des for use in feeds must be stopped". and this bill implements that decision rather than permitting existing stocks of des for feed to be used until january 1. 1973. it is important to find out if they do. and to place the burden of proof on those who say it will  leave a residue. therefore. the bill provides that if the test results show that there are residues. then the des implant use can continue. if they show residues. and the result is available prior to january 1. then the des implant ban would become effective prior to january 1.
. it is a matter of great scientific importance and serious social implication as to whether we should ban the use of diethylstilbestrol--commonly kn as desa synthetic drug. des promotes rapid weight gain in beef cattle with its cost savings and better quality meat for the consumerhowever. it has been determined to be a carcien capable of causing cancer in experimental animals and is also reportedly linked to human cancer. our nation has launched an allout effort to conquer cancer. and in 1976. $898.5 million is authorized to be appropriated to achieve this highly desirable goal. dr. frank j. rauscher. jr.. the director of the national cancer institute. which has as its mission the conquest of cancer. has consistently indicated in hearings on this issue that he believes the prudent course is to prohibit use of des in livestock feed. dr. rauscher has publicly defined his mission as director of the national cancer institute as being "to protect the people from cancer." i believe our commitment as legislators is to help him fulfill that goal. if legislatively reasonably possible. we should eliminate from the environment anything that increases mans carcienic burden. we all k the law prescribes that substances like des which have been shown to be carcienic can be used as feed additives providing residues appear in any of the edible portion of the animal at the time of slaughter. the issue is: are residues appearing. dr. rauscher. on february 27. 1975. unequivically assured us of that fact in the affirmative. and he specifically recommended that the national cancer institutenciwanted des out of beef. i refer my colleagues to page 39 of the joint hearing before the subcommittee on health of the committee on labor and public welfare and the subcommittee on administrative practice and procedure of the committee on the judiciary. u.s. senate. 94th congress. first session. on s. 963. in addition. the fda banned the use of des in animal feeds on january 1. 1973. further. they banned the use of implants of des in livestock on april 27. 1973. while the u.s. court of appeals for the district of columbia overturned the fda ban. the reason for the courts decision was procedural. and  on whether or  des residues existed. with respect to the issue of the level of carcienic residue. and whether we should be concerned. i respectfully point out to my colleagues who would delay action and await further study. a quote from dr. rauschers 1972 statement on des before the committee: it has taken 14 to 20 years to determine that cancers were induced in young women whose mothers had received this drug (referring to des) during pregnancy.
