. the committee bill is certainly  perfect and some provisions seem to me to be  entirely concerned with the public interest. for example. the committee bill provides that the benefits of free or reduced mail will continue only if and to the extent that the congress appropriates the revenue forgone by the free or reduced rates. this will work a seriousif  fatalhardship on many libraries and educational institutions which  enjoy low rates which are unzoned. the entire interlibrary network is based on these low rates. a library in westchester county. for instance.  pays 7 cents postage to borrow a 2pound book from aher library in boston. if it had to pay regular fourth class zoned parcel post. the charge would be 60 cents. it would seem that if the postage for books goes up. the funds will have to come from moneys earmarked for the purchase of booksand there is little egh of that already. i understand that the gentleman from new york . offered an amendment in committee to deal with this situation. while it was defeated. i am hopeful that aher attempt will be made on the floor. in a larger sense. however. enactment of some postal reorganization legislation is essential without delayin the public interest and in the interest of postal employees who have long waited for the benefits in this measure.
. i am delighted to reintroduce today the federal buildings enhancement act which will provide a program for acquiring. exhibiting. and circulating works of art and history among federal buildings. senator moynihan has agreed once again to join me as the principle cosponsor of this bill. his support is a great asset. it seems to me that our federal buildings could be more than sterile monuments. their walls deserve better than "wanted posters". federal buildings should be sources of pride to their communities. the public should visit them for pleasure. as well as for business. washington. d.c.. is blessed with a lot of federal structures. we who work ir the capitol are constantly reminded of our heritage because of the artistic and cultural works which abound in the buildings around us here. thousands come each year to view the surroundings we work in daily. have we forgotten what a new federal building can mean to a community. to bring a federal presence and jobs into a town or to consolidate federal offices currently scattered throughout a large city means a great deal to people who work in or visit our governmental offices. an attractive and useful federal building can bring liveliness to both center cities and small towns alike. what i am suggesting in this legislation is that we match two segments of our society to reap great benefit: our artistic resources and our governmental functions. first. my bill will provide a program for exhibiting and circulating. among gsamanaged federal buildings. works of art loaned by contemporary american artists. the assistance of the national endowment for the arts will be a key item in this effort. next. this legislation directs the general services administration to work with the smithsonian institution in developing exhibits of smithsonian works to travel to many of our federal buildings. including those in small communities. the smithsonians experience with its sites program will be useful. these exhibits would cover every aspei:t of our history. culture. art. science and industry. this would give thousands of people. who can visit washington. a chance to view cultural and historic treasures from the smithsonian. finally. the legislation provides stattutory authority to the existing gsa artinarchitecture program to commission and install works of art in federal buildings operated by them. leased buildings will be included as well. one advantage of my bill is that it is  a new financial drain on an already strained budget. the administrator of gsa would use onehalf of 1 percent cxxv1619part 20 of the total funds expended for public building design. construction. alteration and repair and onetwentieth of one percent of the leasing budget for the purposes set forth in this legislation. thus. the bill will encourage initiatives already being taken and will provide new ways of bringing our artistic heritage to many more communities. once again. i would like to think we are building more than mausoleums for our governmental processes. why should  there be vitality and enjoyment in visiting and working in our public offices. this is a goal long sought by our environment and public works committee and i am confident that the committee will give timely consideration to the legislation which i am proposing. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill be printed in the record.
the senator a moment ago stated that there was very little difference between the 2 systems. and that it made difference in any preceding year whether we had one or the other. i am sure the senator wishes to have the matter shown accurately in the record. and. without attempting to review the situation here. i should like to ask permission to place in the record. following the remarks of the senator wher he has finished. the table which appears at page 64 of the book entitled "congressional apportionment" by schmeckebier. this table illustrates the results of each of the 5 socalled modern methods if applied to the census of 1920. it shows that the equalproportions method and the majorfractions method would have differed in at least 4 cases. for example. by the equalproportions method vermont would have had 2 instead of 1 representative and new mexico would have had 2 instead of 1. whereas by ihe majorfractions method virginia had 10 instead of 9. and th carolina had 11 instead of 10.
i thank the senator from montana. ial succession. first and foremost. let us read the title of the bill. that is generally what determines these questions in the majority of cases. the title reads: "to protect the right to vote in federal elections free from arbitrary discrimination by literacy tests or other means." it seems to me. thereforeand my case on this appeal is based upon the following statement of principlethat this is a clean elections bill. a bill to eliminate a corrupt practice which is a burden on federal elections. and therefore is a measure intended to implement the fifteenth amendment. which deals with voting. be it said very significantly that if one is going to relate the words of the bill to the words of the jurisdiction of committees. then certainly the bill ought to be referred to the committee on rules and administration. because the bill itself is confined to federal elections. "federal elections" generally are the very words of art used in the authority given to the committee on rules and administration. rather than in the authority given to the committee on the judiciary. therefore. it seems to me very clear that if we are going to follow the "preponderate" ruleand we mustthen clearly the "preponderate" rule. from the title of the bill. from the limitation of the bill. it being confined to federal elections. and from the words of the bill. which name federal elections and other particular and specific aspects of the jurisdiction of the committee on rules and administration. the bill should be referred to the committee on rules and administration. also. let us understand that this is  a constitutional amendment. the arguments which have been madeand there have been manythat the literacy test qualification can be made standard except by a constitutional amendment. are  germane to this argument. because the chair has to take the bill as it is. and the bill is based on legislation. so whether it ought to be or ought  to be a constitutional amendment. the fact is that the bill does  propose a constitutional amendment. it is simply a legislative measure and therefore qualifies entirely for being referred to the committee on rules and administration. let us again look at the bill. the bill speaks. the bill. in reciting subsection (b) of section 1. speaks of "corrupt infiuence"-again the very words of art used in the terms of the jurisdiction of the committee on rules and administration. the bill provides in subsection (a) of section 1. in its general findings of the fact. "that all qualified citizens have the opportunity to participate in the choice of elected officials." again. that is affirmative of the right to vote. rather than negative of trying to prevent persons from interfering with the right to vote. further on we have the following reference. which it seems to me is conclusive. section 1. subsection (f). of the bill reads as follows. in speaking of congress: "and its power to protect the integrity of the federal electoral process." that recital is so important that i shall reread it: "and its power to protect the integrity of the federal electorial process. congress has the duty to provide against the abuses which presently exist." this clearly indicates the intent of the author of the bill to make it a clean elections bill. a bill against corrupt practices. it is a bill which calls upon the power of congress. in the words of the bill. to protect the integrity of the federal electoral process. under the precedents of the senate. that is precisely the kind of bill which has. time and time again. been referred to the commitee on rules and administration. during this congress. five billsthe socalled clean elections bill. which passed the senate at the end of the last session. s. 604and four other bills. all relating to corrupt practices in federal elections. were referred to the committee on rules and administration. withstanding the fact that the contents of those bills were penal provisions and amendments to the federal criminal code. that negates the proposition that any bill providing penalties. either civil or criminal. must bereferred to the committee on the judiciary. also. two bills to prohibit poll taxes or other property as conditions for votings. 418 and s. 1259were referred to the committee on rules and administration. it seems to me that is a very clear analogy that i made of the burden on the voting right. which is sought to be dealt with by this bill. but more conclusive than that. even. is that four bills dealing with voting registrars were also referred to the committee on rules and administration: s. 2814. s. 2684. s. 2719. and s. 2783. the committee on rules and administration held rather extensive hearings upon those bills in 1960. it seems to me that a reading of the bills demonstrates that there we were dealing with specific amendments to the 1957 civil rights act. etheless. because the bills dealt affirmatively with the voting right and burdens on the voting right. they were referred to the committee on rules and administration. in my opinion. this argument is based soundly upon the law. it is also based upon a very important question of policy. because i believe that there is room for legal argument. which is what we are having . i have cited some of the points which i think are very persuasive in terms of reference of the pending bill to the committee on rules and administration. the chair might have decided either to refer the bill to the committee on rules and administration or to the committee on the judiciary. the chair decided to refer the bill to the committee on the judiciary. where all our history demonstrates. that has been action on such bills. let us remember that a bill very similar to the pending bill. similar. for practical purposes. in terms of whether we can get action on it or . has been languishing in the committee on the judiciary since january of last year.
. there has been increasing concern with respect to any action by the u.s. postal service that would remove cultural organiza-. tions from eligibility for thirdclass bulk mail rates. in 1965. congress established the national foundation of the arts and the humanities. and in subsequent years has provided a federal funding for the artsat the rate of $32.8 million for fiscal year 1973. it would seem illogical for the federal government on the one hand to encourage arts through subsidy. and on the other hand to stand by while extra financial burdens are imposed upon them. the chairman of the national foundation of the arts and the humanities. nancy hanks. has written a letter to the postmaster general and to the manager of the mail classification division concerning this matter. i ask unanimous consent that this correspondence be printed in the record.
