madam president. i will just read the initial part of the letter. that organization states: the johnstonhelms amendment represents an effort by congress to override declalons by the federal courts on the remedies necessary to guarantee basic constitutional rights in the area of public education. the johnston proposal. however. can be viewed merely in the context of school desegregation. it must instead be seen as one of a series of dangerous attacks  pending in congress on the independence of the judiciary. other bills on the senate calendar and under consideration in the senate judiciary committee overturn supreme court decisions on abortion. school prayer. and desegregation. our forefathers develcped the constitution and independent judicial power to enforce it for the very purpose of putting our basic liberties beyond the control of popular whim. and elected executive or legislative majorities. in proposing the bill of rights. james madison explained. ... independent tribunals of justice will consider themselves in a peculiar manner the guardians of those rights. they will be an impenetrable bulwark against every assumption of power ia the legislative or executive." madam president. i k the dificulty that inany of my colleagues have with what is before them in political terms. i understand the popular sentiments as they exhibit themselves with an unpopular remedy such as busing. and i realize that it has political dangers attached to it. to stand up and defend the constitution when busing is what is attached to that defense. but. surely. there is  one person on this floor who does  understand the basic issue. to get back to the point made at the outset. what we are arguing here is the basic document of all our liberties and the future of that basic document. and it has hing to do with the remedies imposed by courts of this generation. there has to be that one time when we do step up to the mark. when all that which is favorable to us and which we enjoy by virtue of our position and our power has to be put on the line to protect that which is mightier than anyone of us or the institution of which we are a partthe constitution. that is the issue before my colleagues. i hope that. regardless of whatever the political danger involved to any member. the constitutional magnificence that attaches to a vote against cloture will be his by the time this afterns proceedings are over.
the senator from new york deeply believes that a state which closes its schools rather than to abide by the federal law. which is a dictate of the constitution. is  doing what it ought to do in terms.  of itself. assuming it has a right to do what it wishes to do. but in terms of its citizens. that is what the supreme court decided. if a state uses public funds for public education. then the children are entitled to enjoy that public education in a desegregated way. if a state decides to end public education. and perhaps even in defiance of its own constitution. that is something which the people of that state nust deal with. but i can see how we can countenance an alternative to violating the constitution of the united states as the price the people of a state must pay to maintain its public school system. if they can do that. then they can do it in every other field. whether in the field of public schools. commerce. or any other area of internal regulation.
i wish to say a word about the socalled puerto rican amendment. that is the amendment which would affect new york. particularly with respect to the voting of those who took their instruction. within the grades specified. in americanflag schools in which the predominant language was other than english. some have construed what i did with respect to that amendment as being very unwise politically on the ground that thousands of puerto ricans will be allowed to vote in new york. and that they may  vote in the manner in which i would like to see them vote. that would be my problem if i could persuade them and if my friends and political colleagues can persuade them. however. i believe it is right that the franchise should be available to these people. as puerto rico is part of the united states. many citizens may feel that they want to participate actively in the political process. they were educated in schools within the american framework. and under the american flag. yet. they are  permitted to participate in the political process. however. i express the hope that everybody understands that the provision is imbedded in the new york state constitution and that. therefore. this is a very serious change so far as new york is concerned. second. the matter has already had rather sympathetic attention from the gover and the state legislature of new york. gover rockefeller signed a bill the other day to reduce the literacy requirement to a presumption of literacy after a sixth grade education for all. rather than an eighth grade education. which was the previous requirement. the bill would also create a presumption that those are qualified in literacy who were educated through the sixth grade in puerto rican schools. but who took the predominant part of their instruction in english. so measurable progress was made in that regard. also. i had hoped. as i have little doubt my colleague from new york had hoped. the legislature might have taken this matter in hand and dealt with it. but it dealt with it. as i pointed out. partially. but  sufficiently. i feel that there is a great obligation on the part of those who have received the benefit of this provision. king them as i doand i k many who may be qualified to vote under this provisioni think they are diligently anxious to learn to write and speak english. as they do spanish. as well as anyone in new york. i believe they will justify our confidence in them by being equally literate before very long in the english language. this provision represents. to my mind. but an acceleration of what time would have taken care of. it is something which time would have corrected. but it would have denied these people the right to vote. withstanding that they are american citizens. for a period of perhaps 5 or 10 years. i saw this process at work in my own personal life. my mother learned to read and write english when she was 55 years of age. in an adult education school. this is the very same spirit which animates those who will be covered by the amendment. i express the expectation that the confidence of the congress will be fulfilled by these fine. patriotic americans. in that they will become sufficiently literate.  only in the spanish language. of which they  have capability. but the english language as well. finally. i state to the senator from michigan that. as a member of the judiciary committee and as a member of the senate. though i am disappointed over loss of the 25percent trigger provision. i applaud the legislation as a signal measure for this country. i refer to the need to correct conditions which in some parts of our country are shameful. outrageous. and shocking. the bill will deal with the great bulk of those conditions. i hope the department of justice will be bold egh. as it must be. to ask for the money and personnel needed to enable them to implement this statute.
i should like to advise my colleague that i shall be happy to complete the statement sooner. if necessary. i wish also to state to my colleague from michigan that i am deeply grateful that the majority has designated him as the primary manager of the bill. first and foremost. i shall  go into the details of the bill. because the senator from michigan has done so. and it is covered in what is tantamount to a report of the majority of the members of the judiciary committee. which he has placed in the record. in my judgment. the bill this year is essential and responsive to the problems of the civil rights struggle as they have unfolded by experience and administration of laws which congress has already passed and by decisions which have been made by the courts. this is a very essential framework for our understanding of the problem. there is a tremendous civil rights struggle going on in the country. as we all k. it is  only public. but private. it has relationship to ecoic and social problems  affected by law. but the main arena is in the public administration. it has been evident in the legal struggles. in demonstrations. and. unhappily for our country. even in riots which have taken place in many parts of the land. we face a revolutionary situation embodied by this struggle. with even a struggle going on among negroes. with the majority standing for the conviction that the struggle should be violent. i must say that it is tremendously and deeply gratifying that the overwhelming majority of the negro people feel the struggle should be violent and are convinced that they should continue to follow the ideology represented by leaders such as dr. martin luther king. rather than some others who go the other way. under those circumstances. there is a public necessity for a succession of laws dictated by the situation. we start with the supreme court decision in 1954. and gradually come along with a line of decisions and exigencies. by which we were faced year after year with the necessity for enacting the types of laws that had a different character. mainly in the line of voting. in 1964 we finally came to be pressed into a wide range of laws to meet various problems. including public accommodations. in the main. and school desegregation. and the use of federal moneys. in order to eliminate what the constitution prohibitsto wit. segregated facilities. the experience with the 1964 act produced the 1965 act and brought about the "buttoning down" of some of the problems of voting. and  has produced this proposed act. it is to that latter that i should like to devote my time. . i submit that the bill is essential. it is responsive to demonstrated needs. as they have unfolded in the country as a result of the civil rights struggle. it shall be our determination to see that the senate acts on the bill at this session. and that. through the performance of the other necessary parts of the legislative process. it becomes law.
