. a number of months ago i joined as a cosponsor of s. 850. a bill to strengthen and improve the nations child nutrition programs. i support the legislation  before us. which contains most of s. 850s original provisions. the school lunch program  reaches about 25 million american youngsters. including 10 million who receive their meals free or at reduced cost. in many cases these children get their best meal of the day through this program. it is of great importance to our effort to provide full nutrition to poor and hungry children. in 1966. however. congress determined that the lunch program alone was  sufficient to guarantee that needy school children were receiving adequate nutrition. congress became concerned at that time that many children were coming to school without breakfast and. thus. were unable to stay alert in their morning classes. the result was that such children were able to learn only during their aftern classes at best. many children. in fact. were coming to school so hungry that lunches alone were  sufficient to make up for their nutrition deficit. accordingly the breakfast program was devised as a means for filling this nutrition gap. the breakfast program. coupled with the lunch program. assures needy schoolchildren of at least two good meals a day and it guarantees that they will start the day off with full stomachs and alert minds. the experiences of educators across the country. whose schools  serve breakfasts. bears out the fact that where the program operates. discipline problems decrease and real learning increases. currently. however. only a small miity of the needy children in the united states can get a breakfast through this program. accordingly the bill we are  taking up contains an important provision designed to mandate a substantial expansion of the breakfast program so that many more children have the chance to enjoy its benefits. this provision establishes a new congressional requirement that the breakfast program be established in "all schools where it is needed to provide adequate nutrition for children in attendance." by its very terms. this provision essentially is directed at all schools in areas containing large numbers of needy children. these are the schools that qualify for title i assistance under the elementary and secondary education act as well as the schools that serve at least 25 percent of their children free or reduced price school lunches. to fulfill our legislative directive. the bill requires the secretary of agriculture to conduct an informational program in conjunction with state educational agencies. the secretary should also formulate plans and publish final regulations that will implement the statutory mandate that all needy schools establish the breakfast program. thereafter. but within 6 months. the secretary shall report to the appropriate congressional committees about his actions to date and his plans to monitor local school districts compliance with the alreadypromulgated regulations. through these regulations. it is our expectation that school districts throughout the country will be fully aware of their obligations to make thebreakfast program available in "all schools needed to provide adequate nutrition for children in attendance." this new provision in the law will add strength to our school breakfast program expansion requirements set forth in the current statute. specifically. under section 11(h) (1) of the national school lunch act. state agencies must prepare and submit detailed plans specifying how. "to the maximum extent practicable." the state educational agency and local school districts will "reach needy children" with the breakfast program. the educational attainments of our nations children are of vital importance to a healthy. productive society. by spending a small amount each day for a needy childs breakfast. we are helping to insure that that child can take his place as a citizen who participates fully in the life of our country. i ask my colleagues to support this measure for the mandatory expansion of the school breakfast program. i also ask support for the other school lunch and breakfast provisions of this bill. particularly the provision that allows children who live in residential institutions to receive the school food programs. children who live in orphanages. homes for the blind. homes for the menally retarded. and similar institutions would be covered by this provision. the provision applies both to childrens institutions and to childrens wings of larger institutions. aher school lunch provision of this bill to which i would like to call attention concerns commodities. this provision reflects the agriculture committees determination to keep the commodity program strong. the provision continues the requirement that usda supply schools. other child nutrition programs. and the nutrition program for the elderly with their annually programed levels of commodities. the provision requires that schools receive their traditional variety of commodities. and that other programs such as the elderly nutrition program be donated the same range of commodities that the schools receive. i would like to comment. however. on an important provision in the house version that is lacking in the senate bill. this provision allows states to receive cash in lieu of commodities for institutions enrolled in the child care food program. such as day care facilities. i strongly urge the senate agriculture committee to consider this house language in conference. most day care centers do  have the facilities to transport and store commodities. getting commodities to small centers in rural areas. and to family day care homes could prove an administrative and logistical nightmare. and thus could well be useless. allowing states to opt for cash in lieu of commodities for their child care institutions is a wise solution to this problem. schoolchildren are  the only children aided by this legislation. this legislation places our entire array of child nutrition programs upon a firmer footing. the bill extends the special supplemental food program for women. infants. and childrenwicthe program designed to prevent irremediable damage to young children. the bill guarantees. through the usewhen necessaryof section 32 funds. that $250 million will be provided for the wic program in fiscal year 1976 and in fiscal year 1977. and that $62.5 million will be made available during the 3month transition period between these 2 fiscal years. in addition. any unspent fiscal year 1975 wic money will be carried over and added to the $250 million for fiscal year 1976. which should bring total fiscal year 1976 wic funding up close to the $300 million mark. any unspent fiscal year 1976 money. including money carried over from fiscal year 1975. gets carried over into the transition period and added to the $62.5 million available for that period. and any of the money that is available during the transition period but unspent during that time must be carried forth into fiscal year 1977 and added to the $250 million available for that year. these funding mechanisms will insure that the wic program will prosper. we in the senate should be pleased with the development of this young program. which is helping to prevent permanent impairment to tens of thousands of children. is thus giving these children a more equal chance in american society. one of the sections of this bill that is most urgently needed is the summer feeding section. in april. the distinguished senator from south dakota and i introduced an amendment restructuring the summer feeding program. the senate agriculture committee adopted our amendment almost in its entirety. the amendment was based on close examination of a thorough and farreaching analysis of the summer feeding program prepared by the gao. if this amendment were law today. we would be spared many of the agonizing problems that are besetting the program this very summer. as we stand here today. all summer feeding sponsors in my state have had their funds cut by 36 percent and have been limited to the service of one meal a day. the reason is a shortage of funds and an allocation system under which some states received all the funds they requested while other states did . sponsors in new jersey and connecticut have also been limited to one meal a day. sponsors prepared to feed thousands of children in th carolina. ohio. and new hampshire have been denied entry into the program altogether because the allocation their state received does  meet their need. the bill before us would resolve such problems. it provides for all eligible summer sponsors to enter the program upon their request. we already have such a provision in the school food and special milk programs. the provision means that eligible sponsor could be denied entry into the program. told to serve only a limited number of children or meals. or have funds cut out in any similar fashion. to qualify for the program. a sponsor would have to serve children from areas of poor ecoic conditions. and would have to operate for any period from may 1 through september 30except that the program could run during other months in areas where there is a continuous school calendar and the major school vacations come during other months of the year. sponsors would  have to offer organized recreation activities in order to run the program. because our primary goal is . reaching all hungry children who need this program during summer months. and we do  wish to eliminate children from the program. because the sponsor in their area lacks the funds to provide recreation as well as food. the summer feeding section of the bill allows sponsors to serve breakfast. lunches. supplements. and suppers as long as the different meal services do  occur at the same time. we mean by this provision to eliminate those restrictive regulations  in effect which bar a sponsor from serving children a second meal unless they remain in attendance for 5 consecutive hours each day. under this section. sponsors would receive payment for all food service costsincluding rental charges for space and equipmentup to a specified maximum amount for each meal. these payments would be made primarily to sponsors in advance. with the sponsors receiving disbursements on june 1. july 1. and august 1 each year for meals to be served in the coming month. finally. overnight summer camps for poor children would also be allowed into the program. which should encourage more charitable organizations to run "fresh air camps" and similar endeavors. before closing. i should also like to mention the child care feeding section of this bill. this bill allows family and group day care homes into the program. a step which i have advocated for many years. the bill also provides that all eligible child care programs could receive the program upon request. with institution being made to cut the numbers of meals or children it would serve. i am pleased to support this excellent bill and urge its speedy adoption.
