i thank the senator from louisiana for his intercession. i shall obtain the facts and list the school districts for the senator. i point out that. far from imposing some new principle or granting any new administrative power. title vi would strengthen the existing constitutional mandate which had already been enforced by president truman in desegregating the armed forces. by president eisenhower in desegregating schools in the district of columbia. and by president kennedy in the housing desegregation order of 1962. title vi provides a uniform means of enforcement for the principle common to these executive orders. as well as to the many other executive actions which have been and are being taken. even in the absence of further legislation. moreover. the enforcement procedures in title vi are hedged in with more safeguards than any other title of the bill. and can hardly be considered punitive in any sense. any agency rule. regulation. or order effectuating the principle of discrimination is specifically made subject to presidential approval. the senator from connecticut has properly pointed out that the title is to be invoked only as a last resort. before aid could be terminated. or refused in any given case. ice and an opportunity for a hearing would have to be provided. that is  required under the law  or under the constitution when federal funds are being distributed. the title also provides that even when the decision is made to terminate or refuse aid. which must be on a casebycase basis. there must be a stay of 30 days. within which the appropriate house and senate committees must be apprised in writing by the agency head of the circumstances and grounds for such action. finally. there is judicial review. the safeguards are excellent. proponents of the bill have continually made it clear that. apart from all these safeguards against arbitrary action. it is the intent of title vi  to require wholesale cutoffs of federal funds from all federal programs in entire states. but instead to require a careful casebycase application of the principle of discrimination to those particular activities which are actually discriminatory or segregated. one would expect the opponents of the bill to prefer enactment of title vi. with all these restrictions on the enforceability of administrators alreadyexisting constitutional powers. to continued enforcement through executive orders or administrative rulings. in which the congress has opportunity to mandate procedural safeguards. the great effectiveness of this provision of the bill. even in the limited. lastresort form in which it is  proposed. is expected to flow from two major factors. first. great amounts of fundsfar greater than their contributions to the federal treasury in taxesare contributed by the federal government to southern states. in order to show how clear that is. i ask unanimous consent to include in the record an analysis made by the tax foundation. dated 1964.
