. i should like to make a comment with respect to a point raised just  by the distinguished senator from minnesota. namely. regarding the effect of section 104 of the conference report. as its effect has been pointed out by the distinguished chairman of the banking and currency committee. i believe that what he has stated will be the effect of that section of the conference report. however. the report which is to accompany the final conference report will emphasize the point that when an agricultural commodity of a competitive nature comes into the united states. the secretary of agriculture himself shall exercise particular discretion. and in his discretion. which will be almost complete. so far as these provisions are concernedalthough so far as we are concerned. the discretion is definitely indicated as being limitedthe secretary of agriculture must permit such competitive agricultural commodities to enter the united states. therefore. the cheese situation. about which i assume the senator from minnesota is disturbed. is largely taken care of. because the great amount of cheese which enters this country from abroad is of a competitive nature.
i offer an amendment to the joint resolution in order to have it conform with the resolution reported by the committee on banking and currency of the house. i send to the desk the amendment. and ask that it be read.
. the committee on banking and currency has been holding hearings on s. 823. a bill to enable consumers to protect themselves against arbitrary. erroneous. and malicious credit information. during the course of the hearings we have heard from a wide range of witnesses with arguments pro and con on certain sections and provisions of this important legislation. i am pleased that one. of course. is against the basic purposes of the bill. pat is. that confidentiaity. accurate information. and relevance in credit reports must be assured. in a speech before the associated credit bureaus. inc.. 1969 conference in las vegas. nev.. on june 5. 1969. the ranking republican member of the committee. the senator from utah . explained in great detail many of the sections of the bill and gave his always frank and concise viewpoint in it. because i feel that his speech deserves wide distribution. i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record.
we have had clear evidence before the banking and currency committee that the antitrust laws would  cover this situation. that the case in point would  be relevant to this specific issue. i think that matter was very clearly brought to the attention of the members of the banking and currency committee in a letter from the justice department. as i recall.
i must say that i have  read the amendment yet. i am  trying to understand what the facts are to see whether i think the bill reported by the committee on banking and currency is a justified operation. if it is. i shall support it. if the amendment relates to what the senator says it does. a device of a nature through which the courts will  or can look. i will  be for such a device. if it is. in fact. a useful and helpful instrument to protect people who would otherwise be without protection. i presume i shall be for it.
we hear much about the help which is given to the underdeveloped areas of the world. i do  think nearly egh attention has been paid to the grave financial problems which great britain is facing because its ecoy has been seriously shaken. whatever shakes the ecoy of great britain shakes the ecoy of the world. i do  think any american can ever forget that the credit anstalt failure in vienna in about 1931 or 1932 touched off the worst of the great depression. i hope i may be permitted to make the observation to the distinguished chairman of the committee on banking and currency that some attention should be paid in a constructive way to the overall financial situation of great britain. that the united states will  be carried away by their own pride concerning their condition. because the fortunes of the entire world are almost as much at stake as our own fortunes are. i hope that we will take as hard and thorough a look at the needs of great britain- and do what we can to help them. bcth by way of suggestion and by way of our influence. especially by way of our cooperation. as we are doing in respect of the underdeveloped areas. about which we are doing far more than we are doing about the particular matter which the senator from arkansas has brought up today.
. that it is expected that the entire question of the issuance of medals will be considered by the banking and currency committee. of which i am a member. and also by the congress. therefore this joint resolution is introduced. so that this very highly deserved award may be given proper consideration.
making a series of speeches is typical of the great club that we k as the senate. aside from that. i invite the comments of my friend from colorado to the fundamental point. in considering the size of our gold reserves. so called. considering the claims upon it in currency and in obligations held by other central banks and the national debt. and so forth. are we or are we  better off freeing our hands. and having liquid assets rather than tying our own hands.
we had a colloquy the other day and have the implementation in the record enjoining the secretary to condemn and beware of pirating practices. and the section of the bill referred to was implemented. but i was interested in the substantive part relating to machinery and equipment. when i was on the banking and currency committee i protested it. i sought to excise it from the bill. i think it is a rather dangerous point and requires great scrupulousness in its administration. i wanted the senate to have some concept of the way in which the committee looked at it. i gather that the committee assumed that it would be used sparingly.
the one thing which we sought to do when we enacted the .statute was to provide businessmen. bank officers. stockholders. and depositors certainty of obtaining immediate approval of a federal agency. the complaint made against the manufacturers haer merger was that they moved so quickly that the regulatory agency did  have an opportunity to restrain them. that is really the complaint. that is being corrected in the bill by the fact that a 30day waiting period will be required. that is an admirable provision. the question of public policy then arises: shall the government upset what was  enjoined and what was consummated. it seems to me that in a privateenterprise society. it is elementary that we must go with the proposition of certainty. if it is found that a merger has  worked out to the governments satisfaction. the situation should then be corrected. but to attempt to reverse what has already been done jeopardizes the fundamental goodfaith and credit upon which all relations in business are conducted. the govern.ment itself does that. it is extremely upsetting to the ecoy to act otherwise. the committee on banking and currency has reached a good solution. one which deals exactly with the single factor which experience shows was weak. namely. the waiting period. if an attempt is made to unscramble eggs that have already been scrambled. we tremendously jeopardize the confidence of business in the government. confidence -will be impaired with respect to anything else which requires government approval. because when an attempt is made to do other things that requires government approval. business will be strongly against the government. with justice. i think i could also say that anything which seeks to immobilize business while government makes up its mind is - harmful to business.
. i had the privilege of being a member of the cabinet when mr. harriman was gover of new york. i was attorney general. at that time. dr. weaver was a member of the cabinet on housing. because of his skill. competence. and integrity. he has made a landmark in terms of miities. senator kennedy and i have testified fully before the banking and currency committee. i said previously in the committee that. while dr. weaver was a negro. he would  use that fact to practice reverse discrimination in legislation. that he would call decisions as he saw them. that he would  be obsessed by the fact that he was of a miity group. but that he would make the correct decision as an american. therefore. i k that dr. weaver will serve in his new post with distinction and will make great contributions in that new duty.
one additional fact is that the committee on banking and currency voted 9 to 2 to consider the house amendment to the bank merger bill. withstanding that it was just as privileged as the gi bill. and that is the best practice.
. i wish to identify myself with the statements made about the distinguished senior senator from virginia i served as a member of the committee on banking and currency and have found senator robertson always to be a gentleman. although on many occasions we have disagreed on policy. he is a gracious. accommodating. courteous. distinguished member of this body. we shall all miss him. i join with all my colleagues in bespeaking for him many fruitful years ahead.
i beg the senators pardon. they do  want it on that ground at all. i read the statement of the counsel for the federal home loan bank board. he does  say it is because it is  respectable or  moral or that it will prejudice their standing. he said the law does  permit it. if the senator feels outraged about that. why does he  have the committee on banking and currency allow him to correct the law. that would make more sense than this statute.
and that is what we are talking about. may i say to the senator. in return. that. as the ranking miity member of the joint ecoic committee from the senate. i will do precisely that and work with the senatorwho is the chairman of the subcommittee in the banking and currency committee.
