. i have some comments regarding the committee report language on section 104(b) of s. 708. i would like to direct. if i might. a question to the manager of the bill. senator henz. in this connection. i have reviewed the banking committees report on this bill. in my mind. the cimmittee report language on page 17 discussing the meaning of the term "course of conduct" leaves two important questions unanswered. the first question is whether the example of the standard of iability under section 104(b) requires actual kledge. the second question is whether the examples of conduct which would violate section 104(b) which are discussed in the committee report are meant to be examples of prima fadie violations or merely illustrations of the kinds of actions that might constitute a violation of section 104 depending on the circumstances of the case. the committee report on section 104 (b) with respect to your amendment inserting the words "expressly or by a course of conduct" indicated. among other things. that if an american company continued to employ an agent in the face of kledge that he had made one or more corrupt payments within the preceding 2 years. the american company could be found to have violated the act. . although the word "kn" is  defined. it is my understanding that it is clearly  the same as "reason to k" as set forth in the present act. in other words. the term "kn" in this sentence of the report means actual kledge. which would. for example. include a copy of papers showing the agent had been convicted for bribery. or a direct admission of guilt by the agent to the company. but  hearsay. rumor. or cocktail party conversation. the second issue that the report language on course of conduct raises is whether the example of the continued employment of an agent kn to have paid a bribe is intended to establish a per se rule under which the employment of such an agent automatically constitutes implicit authorization. i do  believe that this was the intent of the example. certainly. the fact that a company has advised its agent to stop making payments is also an important factor which should be considered in specific cases.
