. i am today introducing two bills which would make needed changes in the supplemental security incomessi--program. as you k. ssi is a program of income assistance for aged. blind. and disabled persons. the law and implementing regulations are designed to target benefits at those most in need. the law specifically limits ssi eligibility to persons whose allowable resources are valued at more than $1.500 for an individual and $2.250 for a couple. the law further prescribes certain exclusions including a home. up to a value determined by the secretary to be reasonable. i find that the regulations which the secretary has set with regard to home ownership are  reasonable. the secretary has set a ceiling of $25.000 market value for a home. in alaska and hawaii the secretary has set the limitation at $35.000. in setting a limitation for alaska and hawaii which is different from the limitation prescribed for the continental united states. the secretary ackledges the fact that there are costofliving differentials which are reflected in differing market values of housing. to me. it seems inequitable to ackledge this fact for alaska and hawaii. but for other states or regions. i agree that we must set a ceiling on the value of a home which a person can be allowed to own and still receive federal benefits. but i do  believe that it is fair to use the same value for states such as mississippi or alabama where $25.000 can still buy an adequate home and california or massachusetts. for example. where a $25.000 home is extremely modest at best. one of the purposes of the ssi program was to establish a nationally uniform federal program to replace many of the variations in the previously existing programs. setting a single limitation may appear to provide uniformity. but it does  do so. in fact. it introduces an appreciable degree of variation between regions of the country. i believe that my bill goes a long way toward making uniform the eligibility criteria for persons in all areas of the united states. my bills would permit the secretary of hew to adjust the limitation on the value of a home consistent with data which he has regarding regional differences in the cost of living and the current prevailing market prices of homes in the particular area in which a recipients home is located. my aim. and i am sure the aim of all of my colleagues. is to insure that persons who are truly in need can receive benefits and those who are  in need do . i am shocked when i hear the occasional tale of a person with a large income or excess resources receiving public assistance benefits. but i am equally shocked when i hear of a needy persona person with  egh income to subsist and living in a modest home which he purchased many years agobeing denied benefits. as we work to strengthen the rules and regulations of our program so that only the needy will be eligible. let us also work equally diligently to insure that all of the needy can be found eligible under the laws of our programs. my second ssi bill relates to the eligibility of institutionalized persons for ssi benefits. when an ssi recipient enters a hospital or nursing home in which medicaid is paying more than half of his bill. his benefit is reduced to a maximum of $25 per month after one full month of institutionalization. the reason for this reduction is clear. it is assumed that other programs are providing for the individuals cost of maintenance and medical care. the $25 is meant to be for his personal expenses. in many cases. however. this provision can be very harmful to the individual involved. frequently a person that is in a medical institution still has a household to maintain. if he intends to return to the community. it is imperative that he have the funds necessary to maintain this household. indeed. an inability to maintain his household may actually jeopardize his ability to ever return to his home and community. my bills would allow the full ssi benefit to continue to the end of the third month of institutionalization. i believe that both of the bills which i have just described will enhance the integrity and responsiveness of the ssi program. i am hopeful that you will see fit to accept this legislation. by mr. beall:
i think that is fair. but i think it is even fairer to say that here is an additional source of help to the small business as it seeks to comply with the occupational health and safety law. the kind. of help the department of labor would like to give. but which is inhibited by the present state of the law.
