. the fact isand i want to mention just a few numbers. very simplythat the present bill has zero fundszero fundsfor direct loans for construction of undergraduate academic facilities. it has only 62 percent of the authorization for ndea student loans. 38 percent of the authorization for esea title i. and 21 percent of the combined authorizations of esea titles ii and ifl. and ndea title iia. and ndea title va. i strongly support the entire package proposed in the joelson amendment. but i would single out a few elements that i think are particularly important. first. the budget did  request any funds for title ii of esea. school library programs. i commend the committee for including this as one of four programs which were to share an appropriation of $200.163.000. but to divide $200 million among four deserving programs is bound to result in a scramble for their distributionespecially if the office of education does  yet have the administrative machinery for joint administration and allocation of funds. thus. i strongly urge that the $50 million proposed in the joelson amendment for school library programs be approved. title ii has meant a great deal to many schools which have been able to augmentand in some cases just starttheir libraries to the benefit of all children. for parochial schools. especially. title ii has been a source of funding that frees scarce cash for other educational expenses. second. the increase in funds for the ndea student loan program is necessal per se but is even more urgently needed because of the inadequacy of the guaranteed loan program. banks are reluctant to make loans at the 7percent rate when a better return is available on other types of investment. and the tight money market makes any loan difficult to get. thus. many students. especially those in their first year of college. will find that guaranteed loans just are  available and they will have to look for other sources of funding. i am hopeful that the additional ndea loan funds made available in this amendment will help to meet this need. third. the package amendment provides $33 million for construction of undergraduate academic facilities under the higher education facilities act. as i mentioned. the administration had  requested any funds for this program. relying instead on the interest subsidy program that was established last year in the higher education amendments. direct loans funds were provided for junior colleges only. the need to continue the building program in 4year colleges is. to say the least. extremely pressing. especially if increased enrollments are to be accommodated. in addition. the construction credit market is tight. and there is little reason to believe that the interest subsidy program will make it easier to obtain commercial financing for such projects. put very simply. our nation is clearly defaulting in a major and irresponsible way on adequate support for elementary and higher education. we are doing it at a time when there is a shortage of 2 million teachers in the united states. at a time when there are at least 400.000 classrooms which should be built. at a time when a majority of our 2year colleges lack adequate books and when a number of our 4year colleges lack the necessary library resources. accordingly. i do  believe this congress will be living up to its responsibilities or come anywhere near living up to its responsibilities unless it unequivocally supports the joelson amendment without modification. i think it is essential that it be supported. i think this is a national requirement and a national imperative. in short. this package amendment seeks to remedy a basic gap in the logic behind the requests for education programs. on the one hand. the call is heard for increased enrollments. for more and better teachers. on the other. we reduce the funds available to provide equipment and services to the new pupils and to train the teachers. clearly. this is counterproductive. the only way to set the matter straight  is to support the joelson amendment.
. federal government through the contracting process. should provide miity contractors with new opportunities to grow and expand. however. we must be assured that these contracts are in the best interest of the business involved and the government. the small business committee also considered whether to extend the surety bond waiver authority. scheduled to expire on september 30. 1980. h.r. 5612. as passed the house. extends this authority for an additional 2 years. over the 2 years. sba did  once exercise this authority. despite a similar lack of experience. the committee decided  to extend the surety bond waiver authority for two basic reasons. first. the authority is so limited that few if any firms may qualify for a waiver. this view is supported by an august 20. 1980 report by the gao. second. the committee is currently conducting an extensive investigation into sbas surety bond program. until that inquiry is completed. any extension of this limited waiver authority would be illadvised. during consideration of h.r. 5612. the committee also considered amendments to the 8(a) program offered by senator morgan. the first proposal would shift final program authority for the 8 (a) program from the associate administrator for miity business development to the administrator of sba. i agree with this administrative change which essentially puts the accountability for this program like other programs in the agency. where it ought to ultimately be placed: in the hands of the person responsible for running the agency. the administrator. i would only expect that the administrator would delegate this authority to the person most qualified and suitable to handle the daytoday operation and management of the programs. which in this case would be the associate administrator miity small business/capital ownership and development. the second proposal offered by senator morgan would reouire the sba to set a fixed graduation date for each firm when it is accepted into the 8(a) program. the sba has the authority. under the existing law and the regulatory guidelines to graduate firms. however. very few firms have been graduated. there have been many well publicized instances of abuses of this program and cases of firms which should have been removed from the program. but have continued to receive competitive government contracts. of the 4.350 firms that have been involved in the program. only 174 have successfully graduated. this reluctance on the part of sba to utilize its current authority to graduate firms compelled the committee to adopt the amendment offered by senator morgan. during committee consideration of the graduation proposal. i shared the concern that senator morgans amendment did  allow the sba the flexibility to take into account a firms varying circumstances once a fixed graduation date was set. i was pleased to see the modification. offered by senator levin. which would allow a firm to request an extension of the date within 1 year before the graduation date. finally. h.r. 5612. by my amendment. would prohibit the sba from implementing any size standards changes before march 31. 1981. this past march the sba issued an advanced ice of proposed rulemaking on size standards. that proposed rule has been the source of considerable concern and controversy within the small business community. recently. the sba published a list of six issues raised by comments submitted on the proposed rule. sba has requested comments by october 27. 1980. on those issues. several small business i ssociations are concerned that the sba plans to issue a final rule by the end of january. before the next administration takes office. this provision simply takes this process out of the "political season." and will give the congress and the agency additional time to study and evaluate any proposed changes in the definition of a small business.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committees hearing scheduled for march 21. 1983. has been rescheduled for thursday. march 24. 1983. at 1 p.m. in the clinton high school gymnasium. in clinton. ark. for further information contact marc smolonsky of the committee staff at 2243099.
. earlier his week an event took place in new york city that i call to the attention of our colleagues. that event. the annual meeting of the american can co.. was significant  merely for the company business which was transacted but rather for the meetings locationthe martin luther king high school on the west side of new york city. american can co. has. for some time. been funding teachers. lectures. and computer literacy courses for martin luther king. jr. high school students both on site in new york and at the companys corporate headquarters in connecticut. such efforts are in themselves praiseworthy. but  the company has opened its business affairs to the students and allowed them to participate. i have doubt that american cans commitment has and will continue to benefit martin luther king students. bit aher beneficiary has got to be the company in particular and american business in general. both of which will grow in the healthier environment of community appreciation of their work. i commend chairman woodside and his management team for their progressive stance. and i ask that the new york times article of may 23. 1984. be included in the record together with these renarks.o the article is as follows: [from the new york times. may 23. 19841 arwalalcem can meets in a scuoot. and stutijras liven things up (by rthomas j. lueck) in a gesture that underscores a growing commitment of corporate assistance to public schools. the american can company yesterday conducted its annual shareholders meeting at martin luther king jr. high school on the west side. "most corporate executives tend to buy off their conscience: they donate cash and walk away." said william s. woodside. american cans chairman. he told about 200 shareholderis and 200 students that his company had made "a real commitment to this school. mr. woodside presided over a twohour session that included the mally staid agenda of an annual meeting. but was punctuated by a studentproduced slide presentation of city scenes. school life and breakdancing. the meeting also included questions from several of the students. mr. wuodside was asked by 17 yearold angelique sitn whether he thought his responsibilities justified the 1.905.000 be was paid by american can last year.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committees hearing scheduled for march 21. 1983. has been rescheduled for thursday. march 24. 1983. at 1 p.m. in the clinton high school gymnasium. in clinton. ark. for further information contact marc smolonsky of the committee staff at 2243099.
. earlier his week an event took place in new york city that i call to the attention of our colleagues. that event. the annual meeting of the american can co.. was significant  merely for the company business which was transacted but rather for the meetings locationthe martin luther king high school on the west side of new york city. american can co. has. for some time. been funding teachers. lectures. and computer literacy courses for martin luther king. jr. high school students both on site in new york and at the companys corporate headquarters in connecticut. such efforts are in themselves praiseworthy. but  the company has opened its business affairs to the students and allowed them to participate. i have doubt that american cans commitment has and will continue to benefit martin luther king students. bit aher beneficiary has got to be the company in particular and american business in general. both of which will grow in the healthier environment of community appreciation of their work. i commend chairman woodside and his management team for their progressive stance. and i ask that the new york times article of may 23. 1984. be included in the record together with these renarks.o the article is as follows: [from the new york times. may 23. 19841 arwalalcem can meets in a scuoot. and stutijras liven things up (by rthomas j. lueck) in a gesture that underscores a growing commitment of corporate assistance to public schools. the american can company yesterday conducted its annual shareholders meeting at martin luther king jr. high school on the west side. "most corporate executives tend to buy off their conscience: they donate cash and walk away." said william s. woodside. american cans chairman. he told about 200 shareholderis and 200 students that his company had made "a real commitment to this school. mr. woodside presided over a twohour session that included the mally staid agenda of an annual meeting. but was punctuated by a studentproduced slide presentation of city scenes. school life and breakdancing. the meeting also included questions from several of the students. mr. wuodside was asked by 17 yearold angelique sitn whether he thought his responsibilities justified the 1.905.000 be was paid by american can last year.
. i would like to annce that the senate small business committees subcommittee on entrepreneurship and special problems facing small business will hold 2 days of hearings in wisconsin on the entrepreneurial spirit in america. the first hearing will be held on february 11. 1986. at 2 p.m. in the great hall of the new student center at the university of wisconsinstout. in meonie. wi. on february 13. 1986. the subcommittee will hold a morning and aftern hearing. the morning hearing will commence at 8:30 a.m. in room el14. of the fox valley technical institute. appleton. wi. the aftern hearing will take place at 3:30 p.m. in the multipurpose room at -mount mary college in milwaukee. wi. senator bob kasten. chairman of the subcommittee will chair all three hearings. for further information. please call skip waddell of the committee staff at 2242809. or steve loucks of senator kastens office at 2244632.
. before the senator from connecticut speaks. i should like to say this: when patricia harris was before the banking committee for confirmation of her ination. she was questioned very vigorously by our distinguished chairman. who makes a custom of vigorous crossexamination. it came out at that time that she was  an urban expert. as the distinguished senator from connecticut has said.  did she profess to be an urban expert. she did testify that she had had experience in urban affairs. she is a very able attorney. she had been an ambassador. serving with distinction. and she had been a law school professor. she testified that she felt that the urban qualifications she does possess would justify her acceptance of this appointment as secretary of hud. since that time. we have had oversight hearings on the department of hud. and. in all objectivity and all fairness. i believe that even the senator from wisconsin. the chairman of our committee. who felt very strongly about the ination and who may even have voted against confirmation-
. one of the most outstanding characteristics of thomas watsona characteristic. i am sure. that has helped make him one of the most successful businessmen in the countryis that he never forgets that whether in business or in government. the most important element is people. he is a man who presides over a corporation that is in the business of producing machines that do marvelous things. and yet he can say: "a machine will never learn to contemplate a sunset. respond as live men and women and even children have responded to hamlet or a beethoven symphony. or the promise of a better life. to do these things you have to be human." i ask unanimous concent to insert in the record an article by william d. patterson on mr. watson. the article appeared in the january 14 edition of the saturday review of literature.
i favor this amendment very strongly. the senator was rather understating his case when he said this just started with the housing effort. which was a most brilliant initiative entering into congress. we have had interest subsidies for rural electrification and we have had interest subsidies for rural telephones and also in the field of loans to college students. it is one of the ways we have to get guaranteed loans for college students when we annually fell fiat on our faces in trying to make available necessary money for college students under the nea program. the gift of an interest subsidy is probably the answer to the crushing budget problems we face. as the senator may k. i was able in connection with hospital modernization to do the same thing. .i would like to point out to the senator .that we are trying to get the banks to cooperate more intensely in the small business field. there is a large consortium of new york banks meeting for this purpose. they are achieving some results. they do  yet have a new york plan to equal the chicago plan. i wish they did. one thing we have learned. whether we like it or . is that we have  gotten behind the small business situation with sufficient management expertise. there could be better witness for that than the senator from illis. who was a most successful business administrator. right . we are primarily on the money equation. i k that -is  the whole answer. but it is an answer. to use the money equation effectively. we have to be able to decrease the cost of money and make more money obtainable so that the small business entrepreneur who is facing big losses can become more involved in the ecoic mainstream. we might as well try to avoid some of these losses by soaking them up. by making his carrying charges lower. we will have to pay for it one way or aher. and i believe it is better to pay for it in that way than to take it as a loss to the small business community and ultimately to the ecoy at large. i commend the senator and i hope the senate agrees to the amendment.
if that university actually runs the cafeteria as the university cafeteria. then it would  be a collateral operation. if it is a cafeteria that is run by a corporation or a student coop. or something like that. then it would be. in my judgment. a collateral operation. this is the way most of it is done. because the institutions themselves do  wish to assume liabilities. for example. suits for accidents. and many things like that. that are inherent in what are mal commercial operations. as a matter of fact. the amendment itself. in a negative sense. defines it by saying: "to perform the functions of. or to carry out the purposes of a school. college. or university." that would be the universe. and outside of that universe is the ambit of the amendment to which i am addressing myself.
