. for the past 2 years. many small businesses have faced a crucial ecoic situation as the result of their continuing to perform on fixedprice contracts made with the federal government. the bill the senate is considering today. s. 1259. provides a mechanism to provide much needed relief for small businesses facing serious financial loss as a result of these negotiated agreements. the bill is  intended to serve as a "bailout" to small businesses. it merely prevents a firm from increasing its losses if further performance on the contract may lead to bankruptcy. s. 1259 affects fixedprice contracts awarded during the period of price controls from mid1971 until early 1974. when these controls were lifted. the whole nation encountered the energy crisis that resulted in spiraling inflation costs due to material shortages and the energy crisis. small business firms with fixedprice commitments were especially hard hit. these concerns have had the sympathy of the federal agencies. but these agencies lacked legislative authority to provide any form of relief. this bill. the small business emergency relief act. would grant these agencies the scope to terminate for the convenience of the government any fixedprice contract made during the price control period. i believe these small business concerns have waited long egh. sometimes with disastrous consequences. for relief to come their way. hopefully. the senate will act today to provide the relief as envisioned in s. 1259. before these firms are unable to continue as viable organizations.
i think the fact that we are competing on that basis is important. all that is fine. but to get back to the essence of what we are arguing about here. i do  want people to think that by "politicizing the fed" we are going to cure the ecoic ills of this country. it just is  going to come to pass that way. i can remember during the energy crisis how in state after state everybody took their wrath out on the public utilities commissions. they wanted the public utilities commissions to make sure the rates stayed low instead of encouraging decontrol and deregulation. instead of encouraging conservation. all of which would have corrected the problem. they took it out on the public utilities commissions. that seems to me to be a very good example of what we are doing here with the federal reserve. in coming down on their head. you k the reason for the problem. the problems are far more diverse than the federal reserve board. the origins of our problems are in the white house. the u.s. senate. the house. and the attitudes of the american people. i am the one who catches it in the neck as chairman of the small business committee as to what these high in-. terest rates are doing. i have sat up there in that commiittee and on the floor of the senate and decried what has been going on. the whole problem i have with reagaics is that it is an ecoic policy for big business and wealthy americans. it is little business. small business. and small people who are getting crucified. but at least .1 k that some change in the game plan is in order and like it or . and i do  lie all of it. the administration will put something on the table. if i blame anybody. it is the great herd of sheep in the house and in the senate that just went along with the president for anything he asked for.  that we have these results. they do  like it. i would hope we would support the amendment of the distinguished senator from pennsylvania and others. and indicate what it is that we are going to drive toward without trying in any way to give a 6ignal to the american people that their problems are going to be resolved by anyone other than ourselves in co~peratiori with the executive branch of government. . a parliamentary inquiry.
. is an essential initiative in creating a common policy among oil consuming nations. and at a later date among all nations. the foreign reaction has  been particularly encouraging. but it is especially important that all countries invited attend the conference. in spite of the outrageous arab interference to the contrary. for example. neither france  japan can get along as industrialized ecoic nations without cooperation from the united states and western europe. it would be entirely inappropriate for japan to act as the spokesman for the arabs. since they will have the opportunity to speak for themselves at a later conference. i can urge too strongly the necessity for this conference. and willing participation and cooperation by all nations invited to attend. the alternative is a world of nationalistic ecoic policies that will be destructive of all the values we have worked for so hard since 1945. one must also point out that some of the ecoic arrangements already undertaken by european countries and japan are ill advised and could be the first steps on the road to ecoic isolationism and protectionism. the french have just concluded a 3year contract with saudi arabia to acquire 27.000.000 tons of crude oil in exchange for french weapons and machinery. the new york times has estimated that deals worth up to $6 billion have already been concluded in the past few months. and that an additional $5 billion of such deals are either under study by the middle eastern governments or are being negotiated. many of these deals call for huge arms shipments to the middle east which can only make war more likely there. this is an extremely serious development. and one guaranteed to lead to further instability in the middle east at the very time that our secretary of state has undertaken by herculean efforts to try to bring peace to the area. let me turn to some of the financial implications of the increases in crude oil prices extrecated by the opec countries. the posted price of persian gulf crude oil was rased from $5.11 a barrel to $11.65 on december 23. 1973. an increase of 128%. this is just the latest and most outrageous of a series of price increases that has lifted the posted price from $1.80 a barrel as recently as january 1. the world bank has translated these posted price figures into an average f.o.b. market price for all major oil producers rising from about $3.80 a barrel in late 1973 to $8.18 in the first quarter of 1974. other calculations produce a c.i.f. price in western europe of about $9 a barrel these emous price increases will produce serious balance of payments deficits for virtually all countries dependent on imported oil. and huge surpluses for the oil producing countries. the order of magnitude is very roughly along these lines: opec oil revenues in 1973: $25 billion. opec estimated 1974 revenues: 85 billion60 billion: increase in 1974 over 1973. in fact. it is unlikely that receipts will increase almost fourfold as these estimates suggest for two reasons: demand will be reduced by this emous price rise. and the drop in demand is likely to force some price rollback in the latter part of the year. thus first national city bank calculates that these two factors will reduce the figures to a net increase of about $40 billion. fncb also calculates that about a fourth of this can be absorbed by additional purchases by the opec nations. leaving $30 billion available for investment. even if the final figure for net increase in opec revenues is $40 billion. this must come out of the hides of the importing countries. current account deficits are being predicted for every developed country. with even a possible deficit on the current account of $1 to $2 billion for the united states. for the developing countries. the figures produced by the world bank show an increase in deficits of $9.7 billion in 1974 because of higher oil costs. added to a current account deficit of the oilimporting developing countries of about $13 to $14 billion in 1973. increased costs of oil imports increase the capital requirements of the developing countries by about 70 percent. grants and net public capital flows to these countries in 1973 amounted to some $8 to $8.5 billion. the 1974 rise in the costs of imported oil therefore exceeds the total flow of development funds. to add to this burden. the house has voted down the united states portion of the ida replenishment of $1.5 billion. thereby endangering the whole ida structure. it seems to me that american public opinion is  yet awakened to the really big oil crunchthe financial problem. for the american public is concentrating its attention almost exclusively on the local gasoline station. and one can understand why that is so. but it is wrong to blame the whole developing world for arab oil policies. and then attempt to punish them collectively by such actions as turning down funds for ida. although the united states may be comparatively better off than other developed countries. we would be seriously affected by a world recession and wrongheaded policies by other nations. only the united states has the strength to push for correct policies. but there must be political support at home for these. it is harder to criticize the french when we retreat from our world responsibilities. over the long term we are likely to see some price reductions for arab oil. perhaps a reduction of as much as $2 per barrel by midyear. the london ecoist has predicted a coming glut of energy in the world within 5 to 10 years. for the present. however. a major objective of the washington energy conference should be to force price reductions for oil. the present levels are simply impossible. especially for the poor. in fact. it needs to be pointed out clearly that this does  represent transfers of funds from the rich to the poor. but from all nations to a handful of relatively underpopulated states. whose rulers are extremely rich and who are seemingly unable to use these resources effectively in their own societies. it should be kn that the developing nations will suffer the most. the price increases will lead to inflation and recession that will harm. and could even destroy. the world ecoy. which would certainly  benefit the opec countries who want access to western techogy. thus. the united states must be prepared to offer support to those countries prepared to act in concert. and refuse help to those pursuing "beggarthyneighbor" policies. in order to express our support for the washington energy conference. my colleagues and i yesterday introduced a senate resolution to call attention to the urgent nature of the conference and the specific issues which should be considered by the conference. it is  our intention to state the sorts of specific policies which ought to be followed. as that is a matter for the participants in the conference. but to pinpoint the critical issues which need discussion. i would list these critical issues as follows: first. conservation measures in major oil consuming countries which are necessary to reduce demand. and should be a major part of the policy adopted in concert by the oil consuming nations. second. an effective plan for the emergency sharing of oil resources. which could be acted on subject to the constitutional processes of each country. third. guidelines for bilateral agreements between individual oil consuming and oil producing countries. which in the present situation of embargo and skyrocketing prices could prove very harmful to the interests of the major oil consuming nations. and could incur the danger of introducing excessive and sophisticated arms into the oil producing nations beyond their legitimate needs for their own security. fourth. coordination of research efforts in developing conservation practices and alternative sources of energy. fifth. the responsibility for and the means to help to alleviate the plight of the developing countries in the oil crisis. and sixth. closer coordination of fiscal and monetary policies to prevent excessive strain on the international monetary system and the currencies of oil importing countries.
as i was saying. i would say that we are at the beginning of a tense and difficult period with the developing world but that in a sense the american people should welcome this. at last we are going to get down to realities instead of rhetoric. without purporting to speak for the administration on this issue. i believe the executive branch also understands this point of view. and welcomes the spirit of realism that the paris conference provided. but. even the ciec meeting has taken place in the larger international setting which i have alluded to earlier as posing very serious consequences for both the developing and developed world.  that the international monetary system has served us poorly. it is. in fact. largely responsible for the prosperity of the postwar free world today. and served us well from the time of the bretton woods conference until the mid1960s. when the system of rigid par values for currencies became incompatible with our burgeoning payments imbalances. the new ecoic policy of president nixon symbolized the breakdown of the old bretton woods order. the system which replaced it was  a system as such. but merely a set of pragmatic understandings designed to forestall the disaster which could have occurred had bretton woods given way to an anarchic series of competitive devaluations. varying exchange rates for each currency and predatory trade policies. it is fortunate that the post1971 "system" worked as well as it did. however. the shock of the opec oil price increases and the deep imbalances that these price hikes have causedtaking as they do unecoically so much of the current production and putting it back so haphazardlygive us great cause for alarm. if the developed and developing countries do  act in time. the day of reckoning. as i have said. may come as early as 1979 or 1980. with an ecoic depression of the gravest consequences as a result. this is the message implicit in the ciec meeting. last month. federal reserve board chairman arthur burns warned the international financial community that the system of lending to developing countries to enable them to cope with payments imbalances must introduce a new scrutiny of these operations. my impression is that the banking community has welcomed the chairmans remarks. even as they profess to be following orothodox lending policies in their allocation of credit by country and by risk category. but the omis aspect of this development is that we may find the commercial banking system  being able to take the active role which it has in accommodating the world to the opec price increases. for it is a fact that without the resources of our private commercial banks. the payments deficits caused by these price hikes could  have been financed- the way they were. the reasons these conditions must change eventually are twofold: heavy bank lending to ldcs has. in effect. amounted to balance of payments financing. also. this lending has. in some cases. allowed developing countries to avoid needed ecoic adjustment policies. many countries import virtually all of their energy requirements. and the level o. commercial bank lending to oildeficit countries has climbed sharply to meet their balance of payments needs. in the 3 years. 197476. the deficits of the oil countries piled up to $75 billion. making their total outstanding debt a whopping $160 to $180 billion. much of this debt increase in recent times was financed through commercial banks. as they sought to recycle the massive amounts of petrodollars through this system: petrodollars deposited short term for loans bound to be long term. recent statistics published by the federal reserve indicate that for the united states alone. bank claims of over 2 years maturity in the oil ldcs total over $13 billion. the aggregate increase of foreign loans by u.s. banks has run higher than u.s. government estimates. and higher than the predictions of the banks themselves. net private flows to ldcs increased to $23 billion in 1976. most of this bank financed: and doubtless this is the result  only of the high cost of oil imports. but also the aftereffects of worldwide recession. this volume of bank lending to the developing world for balance of payments financing has. unfortunately. tended to validate the principle that opec countries may deposit their surpluses in the financial intermediariesbanks--of strong industrialized countries. leaving those intermediaries. and their central banks. to bear the risk that comes with the investment of those funds. while i believe that the lending practices of these commercial banks have been conservative. the fact is. etheless. that international financing systems have been strained by this arrangement. in some cases. banks are fully "loaned up" in certain countries. we have already seen a debt renegotiation by a foreign government. and. let me remind you. we are dealing with billions of dollars. as i have stated above. the existence of a sophisticated and resourceful complex of financial intermediaries has given many countries the means for putting off sorely needed ecoic adjustment policies while having access to credits for financing balanceofpayments deficits. several of the oilproducing developing countries have commercial bank debts of more than $2 billion each. i might point out that certain of the oecd countries which are  members of the group of 10 have also borrowed substantially from commercial banks. this latter categoryhad combined current account deficits. of $20 billion last year. the availability of credit from commercial banks has meant that such countries did  need to avail themselves of the socalled upper credit tranches. or drawings of the international monetary fund and this avoided direct supervision of their ecoic policies by the imf itself under the lending terms of "conditionality." how are these massive ldc deficits to be financed. i have seen the arithmetic. and the future does  look good. current accounts on oil ldcs are likely to run at a $30 billion annual deficit level well into the future. net of official do aid. this is $300 billion in 10 years. with further oil price increases. and $500 billion if we include ldc oil deficit borrowing. such aggregate borrowing is seemingly impossible and the unsatisfied demand could cause a breakdown in the world monetary system. therefore. i can only conclude that we must maintain and increase bilateral and multilateral aid programs. international institutional lending. direct private investments. and bond financing if we are to accommodate the very real needs of even the category of better off countries. and that multilaterally we must especially equip the international financial organizations to play a much greater role. expand trade. accelerate techogy transfer and give greater encouragement to private sector investment on fair terms in the developing countries if we axe  to be overwhelmed by this credit stringency. for example. we are planning to increase the capital of the international monetary fund by onethird. to $39 billion. we should be doubling this increase. i am  encouraged by reports among financial experts that the total resources of our international financial organizations will simply  be equal to the task of financing these intractable deficits. the problem is all the more threatening when one realizes that additional substantial oil price hikes by the opec countries could make these conditions infinitely worse.  do i find any solace in the fact that these pessimistic estimates of continued deficits by the developing countries assume a healthy world ecoy. free of recession. in other words. we must come to grips politically with the fact that the system  requires virtually permanent. and substantially higher levels of capital flows to the developing world. the consequences of failing to recognize these developments could be the major policy mistake of this generation. unemploymentespecially youth unemploymentis a worldwide phee and imposes the same social strains in every country. the social consequences of being forced to accept lower standards of living can be severe at a time when we generally accent the principle of rising aspirations.these strains have implications for trade as well: concern for unemployment at home could weaken the resolve of countries. including the united states. to pursue more open trade policies.
