. i have just seen a proposal for assistance to community development corporations which i believe deserves thoughtful consideration. this initiative is urged in a thoughtful study entitled "a white paper on black capitalism." by theodore l. cross. a new york attorney who has been active for some years in programs for miity enterprise and community development. cross is the author of an earlier book entitled "black capitalism: strategy for business in the ghetto." he has also been instrumental in the formation of the opportunity funding corp.. an oeo funded organization active in financing miity business efforts. the basic thesis of his paper is that the power of federal procurement should be used consciously and constructively to assist the growth of miity enterprise through locally based and operated community development corporations. such use of federal procurement powers could emously boost the ecoic selfhelp efforts of the poor. funding to date for community development corporations has been effected through grants made by the office of ecoic opportunity. cross argues that the community development units could command substantial additional resources from private money markets provided they were able to bid for these resources in competition with forces in the general ecoy. to this end. the opportunity funding corp. has been organized to guarantee. rediscount. and insure private investments in selfhelp units organized by the poor and to make incentive payments to encourage private debt and equity funding of community development units. as an "inevitable next step." cross  argues for harnessing federal procurement as a new means of strengthening the community development units. he proposes a broad new program of federal racial subcontracting quotas in favor of community corporations of the poor and other development units in urban and rural areas of ecoic distress. under this proposal. all federal contracts and federally assisted work involving more than $1 million would call for a modest but mandatory subcontracting effort in favor of the employment of the poor by channeling federal purchasing to the selfhelp endeavors of the community development units. i ask unanimous consent to have excepts from this paper printed in the record.
