 of the journal co. in 1904. a position he held until 1941. when he was succeeded by his son. michaels father. george pierce metcalf. michael followed in the footsteps of his father and transformed the journal into a diversified communications company. specializing in newspapers. cable television. broadcasting. and telecommunications. michael metcalf was a business giant and a friend of rhode island. the journals commitment to preserve the historic downtown providence area and its investment in the providence performing arts center were just two of many achievements which reflect mr. metcalfs unequalled leadership. this was his way of giving something back to a city and state that meant so much to him. rhode island will miss michael metcalf. a man committed to excellence and to the people of rhode island. i k i speak for all rhode islanders whefi i express my deepest sympathy for his wife charlotte and his family.
the agency asks aher $2.300.000 to enable it to produce and distribute hundreds of hours of new programs for the greatly increasing number of television stations. i think we ought to build the stations up.  tear them down. we say our agencies should be awake. they are awake. because the march of television is forward.  back. today. usia sends television programs to some 200 stations abroad. but it estimates that by july 1958. 200 new television stations will exist. in japan alone. the number of stations will more than double. in latin america. 57 new stations will start. in the near east. 7 more are expected. and in europe. 109 new stations will join the 135  operating. aher $1 million is needed for new programs in eastern europe. including increased distribution of the magazine. america illustrated. so that we can only continue to distribute the magazine in the u. s. s. r. for the next year. but also reach behind the iron curtain with an additional language version of the magazine. anyone who has seen the slick publications put out by u. s. s. r. for distribution in our country must recognize how vital is the publication of america illustrated. the agency needs nearly $1.500.000 to produce more than 7 million books in both english and translated editions to be sold primarily in the near east. far east. and latin america. designed to sell commercially through local outlets for about 10 cents each. these books about america are portable good will ambassadors which students can afford to buy. read. and then pass on to family and friends. i might say one thing i learned when i was a member of the foreign affairs committee of the house of representatives. foreignlanguage books are one of the staples of the soviet propaganda drive which we must meet. particularly is this true in a country like india. which. if there is any place in the world where it is true. is the focal point of the struggle between the soviet union and ourselves. foreignlanguage books are one of the staples of the soviet propaganda program which we must meet. particularly in countries like india. where books are expensive and people hunger for them. if they do  get ours. they will get those of the soviet union. it is high time we remember that. added to these items is the cost of increasing the output of motion picturesprimarily to the underdeveloped areas of the world where illiteracy is highour overseas exhibits such as "atoms for peace". and the presidents "peopletopeople" program. estimated to cost $500.000. a good case is made out for the restoration of about $29 million of the house cut in the appropriation for usia. in terms of our own security. the evidence is that we should continue the foreignaid program. indeed. two such highly qualified and impartial observers as francis cardinal spellman. of new york. and harold h. held. chairman of the chemical corn exchange bank. one of new york citys great banks. testified to the importance of our foreignaid programs just the other day. cardinal spellman reported the worldwide need for relief supplies was "appalling." in a speech before the bishops fund appeal for oveaseas relief. i quote the word "appalling." used by one of our great newspapers. . i ask unanimous consent to have included as a part of my remarks an interesting editorial from an upstate journal. the buffalo evening news. on the usia. entitled "keep the voice effective." and a column on the same subject written by david lawrence. appearing in many syndicated papers. entitled "meatax budgetcutting methods." published april 18. 1957.
. recent hearings on the. revolutionary potentialities of a space satellite communications system have raised almost as many questions about the information available from research as they have answered. the vast scientific research programs undertaken by our government as well as by foreign governments. including the soviet union. have resulted in a flood of scientific literature in several languages. too vast for even specialists in a particular field of research to keep up with. steps to cope with this huge problem are urgently needed if we are to avoid costly duplication in research and experimentation and to direct our programs with efficiency and dispatch. among recommendations that have been made is the establishment of a central clearinghouse and a library system. as well as other aids. that would enable our scientists to get quickly all the available literature in the research they are doing. a cogent discussion of this problem with examples that demonstrate what easily available information could mean to our research workers is provided by herschel clesner. assistant counsel of the subcommittee on patents. trademarks. and copyrights of the senate judiciary committee. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record his address. entitled "soviet space communications expectations." before the patent law association in rochester. n.y.. february 26. 1962.
 of the musicians union. they have urged also that we proceed in this way. on that basis. and in the expectation that we will at least perfect the powers of the council by giving them the right to receive gifts and donations and bequests. i hope very much the senate will accept the house bill. so that we may go forward in this matter. i express also gratification that within the specifications of the bill are included about every art in which the united states could take pride. this includes industrial design and fashion design. which is so important to new york. as well as communications arts. such as motion picture. radio. and television. again i wish to express to the deputy majority leader what i believe to be the thanks of the whole country for his leadership. i deeply feel that had he  given it his attention we would  be here today to get something done. even though it is little. but. etheless something significant in this great and historic field.
. on april 15. the laurentian singers from st. lawrence university in canton. n.y.. gave a concert in the rotunda of the old senate office building. for those of us who were privileged to hear the concert. it was a rare treat. the laurentian singers were formed in 1946 at st. lawrence university and are conducted by dr. g. errol gay. assistant professor of music at the university. the singers have traveled throughout the united states and canada receiving the acclaim of all groups that they have appeared before. high points in their history have been appearances in town hall. carnegie recital hall. and in the canadian house of parliament. they have also made coasttocoast broadcasts on the major radio and television networks. aher ho for the singers will be their appearance on april 19 at the white house worship service to provide the choir music for that service. i salute this fine new york university choir and tell them how much we enjoyed their performance.
this senator is very well aware of that. also. that congress can be called into session in 10 hours. in addition. if i may remind my colleague from michigan of some history. that crisis was brewing for several weeks. i was on television about it. as were many others. before the president made the decision as to what he would do. that is. that he would stop. the russian ships. we even had a resolution on the books given a lot of authority to the president. he had lots of time in which to deal with congress. i do  want to be tied to this. but certainly he had a time lag. if he did  have a time lag and the danger was that imminent. he mighti repeat. he might havein good faith. invoked that provision of this bill which said that if u.s. territory was in imminent danger of attack. that is covered by this bill. too. i would hope that the president would  do that. but. etheless. he perhaps could have. if it came to that.
