. i would be mighty interested in learning how the additional cost to the east coast of over $73 million annually strengthens our national security. the question of import controls on residual oil has been under study by the office of emergency planning for 2 years. it is their job to determine the national security aspects of imports. their failure to reach a conclusion to this date is persuasive evidence that there are pressing national security considerations involved in the importation of residual oil. it would seem to me that in our global defense strategy. the ability to draw on petroleum supplies from several sources outside the united states might be an important advantage. my colleagues in the coalproducing states may take violent exception to my remarks. but in spite of their best efforts they have failed to demonstrate that this program has had any significant effect on employment in the bitumis coal industry. in the first 10 months of 1962. bitumis coal production increased 5.4 percent over 1961 and during the same period employment in the industry is down. after 3 years of controls on residual oil imports. the situation of the unemployed coal miner has  been materially assisted by such restrictions. at this very moment there is a shortage of residual oil building up which is about to become critical. to support this contention let me point out that: first. importers have had to borrow against their first quarter quotas to the extent of 31/2 million barrels in order to supply their needs for the last quarter of 1962. and. second. the spot market for residual oil disappeared about 2 months ago and the trade press has. each day. drawn attention to the fact that the market is tight and getting tighter. the ultimate result. of course. is price increases which were annced within recent weeks by two major suppliers in the philadelphia area and one in new york city. and. at the very moment when we are trying to do our utmost to bring about hemispheric solidarity with our south american neighbors. in spite of our solemn promises at punta del este last year. we continue to slap our venezuelan neighbors in the face. venezuela lives from oil exports. because of its low gravity. crude oil residual represents 57 percent of the total output of refined products in that country. in the netherlands antilles. a major refining center for venezuelan crudes. residual represents 48 percent of the total refined products. many of these crudes have little or other value than for residual. residual. then. to these countries is a major product.  a waste byproduct. the united states is the most natural and important market outlet. the venezuelans are aware of the fact that import controls on residual oils were  instituted to protect the domestic oil industry. they k too much about the u.s. oil industry to even consider such a ridiculous proposal. the venezuelans k that the importation into the united states of their residual oil has bearing on our national security. they k that unemployment in the coal mining regions is caused by techogical improvements. increased output per man. the loss of the home heating market and the conversion of the railroad industry from coal burning steam locomotives to diesel. the venezuelans must think that we are stupid when they see consumers of their oil in this country. paying more for fuel than consumers in other countries. countries which do  have the energy resources that the united states does. in closing. i would like to quote from a recent editorial in the boston herald addressed to the oil import program: what sort of a system is this that doles our fuel to us in handtomouth barrels per day. what sort of a system is it that takes a nations high cost fuel area. new england. and spikes it with higher costs by an artificial shortage of one of its most important energy sources. what sort of a system is it that makes the government the sole regulator of the market for this commodity. restricting rations. and with wartime severity. what kind of a system is it that says we must use coal when we want to use oil. and where has new england failed that it can bring to play for justice and fairness the pressures on a government that the coal states can bring for injustice and unfairness. there must be complete elimination of restrictions on residual oil imports. quotas. matter how carefully prescribed. dislocate the market. push up prices. and unjustifiably interfere with new englands right to choose its own fuels.
madam president. just about anybody who has been following the natural gas debate has concluded that the bill reported by the energy and natural resources committee. s. 1715. is unlikely to pass in its present form. i opposed the bill in committee and continue to oppose it for a number of reasons. primarily because its old gas decontrol provisions guarantee higher prices for gas consumers in rhode island. our consumers already pay among the highest natural gas prices in the country and this bill would only add to that burden. aher serious flaw in s. 1715 is. its socalled equal access and transportation provisions. these provisions are harmful to rhode island because they discriminate against interstate pipelines which serve the producing states. under the bill. intrastate pipelines could obtain gas across state lines without having the transaction subject to the federal energy regulatory commission. because intrastate pipelines would  be under ferc jurisdiction. which could affect wellhead pricing and contract terms. they could outbid the interstate pipeline for interstate supplies. such a situation would obviously give a competitive advantage to the intrastate pipelines and would lead to the reemergence of the dual market which caused so much of the supply shortfallin the interstate market during the 1970s. the dual market occurred when federal regulations governing the purchase of new gas supplies were applied to the interstate pipelines but  the intrastates. consequently. the intrastate pipelines were in a position to outbid the interstate pipelines. congress passed the natural gas policy act in 1978 and corrected some of the problems of this dual market and the results have been successful. v. however. s. 1715 could recreate the dual market situation because it would allow intrastate pipelines to have access to interstate supplies without being subject to the natural gas policy act or the natural gas act. this situation could be further exacerbated because s. 1715 as well as other natural gas bills contain prudent purchasing requirements for interstate pipelines. a concept i support. if these requirements are enacted. intrastate pipelines would  be subject to the prudence test. and this could give them an additional bargaining advantage over the interstates. . as i said earlier. i believe s. 1715 in its present form will  pass. consequently. there are many substitutes floating around whose sponsors are attempting to finid the right mix of provisions that will get 51 votes on the senate floor. some of these substitutes have access provisions like those of s. 1715 while others do  address the issue at all. as we move forward on the natural gas legislation. i would like my colleagues who are drafting these substitutes to k that i will support efforts to change any access provisions like those found in s. 1715 because they discriminate against interstate pipelines and consumers in the producing states.e
madam president. just about anybody who has been following the natural gas debate has concluded that the bill reported by the energy and natural resources committee. s. 1715. is unlikely to pass in its present form. i opposed the bill in committee and continue to oppose it for a number of reasons. primarily because its old gas decontrol provisions guarantee higher prices for gas consumers in rhode island. our consumers already pay among the highest natural gas prices in the country and this bill would only add to that burden. aher serious flaw in s. 1715 is. its socalled equal access and transportation provisions. these provisions are harmful to rhode island because they discriminate against interstate pipelines which serve the producing states. under the bill. intrastate pipelines could obtain gas across state lines without having the transaction subject to the federal energy regulatory commission. because intrastate pipelines would  be under ferc jurisdiction. which could affect wellhead pricing and contract terms. they could outbid the interstate pipeline for interstate supplies. such a situation would obviously give a competitive advantage to the intrastate pipelines and would lead to the reemergence of the dual market which caused so much of the supply shortfallin the interstate market during the 1970s. the dual market occurred when federal regulations governing the purchase of new gas supplies were applied to the interstate pipelines but  the intrastates. consequently. the intrastate pipelines were in a position to outbid the interstate pipelines. congress passed the natural gas policy act in 1978 and corrected some of the problems of this dual market and the results have been successful. v. however. s. 1715 could recreate the dual market situation because it would allow intrastate pipelines to have access to interstate supplies without being subject to the natural gas policy act or the natural gas act. this situation could be further exacerbated because s. 1715 as well as other natural gas bills contain prudent purchasing requirements for interstate pipelines. a concept i support. if these requirements are enacted. intrastate pipelines would  be subject to the prudence test. and this could give them an additional bargaining advantage over the interstates. . as i said earlier. i believe s. 1715 in its present form will  pass. consequently. there are many substitutes floating around whose sponsors are attempting to finid the right mix of provisions that will get 51 votes on the senate floor. some of these substitutes have access provisions like those of s. 1715 while others do  address the issue at all. as we move forward on the natural gas legislation. i would like my colleagues who are drafting these substitutes to k that i will support efforts to change any access provisions like those found in s. 1715 because they discriminate against interstate pipelines and consumers in the producing states.e
if i may continue along that line. we are  talking about a free market price but a moolyset price. in effect. what the american people are doing is paying taxthe difference. in other words. between the free market price of oil and the opec price of oil. that is the same as a tax. except that it is  staying in the united states. it is going to the arabs. going to the mideast. it is going all over the world to the opec countries. therefore. it is  a question that this is something we can remove ourselves from. we are paying that price. we are  even giving it to our own people in this country for the ecoy. for jobs. . if i were a member of the opec cartel. what i would like to see happen is hing. that is exactly what is happening. hing. we stand up here and jump up and down and yell and scream at the arabs and shake our fists. and we do  accompany it with one single action. you k what they do. they stand back there. take all these horrible insults we give them and they bring in the money. day after day. american money. so believe me. if we want to make them happy right . ody will be made happier than the opec nations if we fail to sustain this veto. it means they will continue to sit there in a moolistic position and exact the tax from the american people as between what the free market price of oil is and their artificially set price. i do  any longer want to send 1 cent abroad. i have too many people out of work. maybe some of our. friends over there are replete with employment and flush with work in their states. we are . we are poor. we need help. one last word while i have the floor. because i have a feeling we are going to have a response. and rightfully so. from the distinguished senator from south carolina. as i have indicated. i am very much against any windfall profits for our own companies. maybe my memory is wrong. but. it seems -to me that. in the closing days of the last session. the distinguished senator from louisiana had excess profits tax legislation up. on the floor to make sure there would be -excess profits. and. the distinguished senator :from south carolina filibustered that to death. is that correct.
i would  particularly worry. if i were the distinguished senator from west virginia. about any rules in this chamber. those were basically all tossed over the other night on the basis of his power. i would be glad to apologize to the senator from west virginia if he can produce before this chamber one statement. either in the record of this chamber or in the media. where this senatorwhere this senatoris directly quoted as saying that he would filibuster the chrysler legislation. the distinguished majority leader has made the statement. he has made the statement. i have never made it. i made the statement in the committee hearings on the chrysler matter. in response to a statement. i believe. and i am  positive. of one the senators from michigan who made the statement during the hearings. that. obviously. the matter would receive some further extended debate during the course of floor action. yes. indeed. there will be such debate. therefore. it was pointless to continue a great amount of discussion before the committee. that is the only comment that could even be interpreted as indicating a filibuster. . i remember the incident the distinguished senator from west virginia talked about. in some jocular manner here on the floor he asked me. well. all i said. it was christmas. anything is possible. he said. "i hope the senator will  delay us on chrysler." there was reference to a filibuster. even at that time. why were we  all in session when more than 200 businesses in my state of connecticut went out of business last year. and i sit as the ranking member of the small business committee. why  then all the rush to go ahead and achieve some sort of equity and some sort of fair judgment for them. why the pressure. because chrysler is the 10th largest corporation in the united states. because the sitting president wants to have an accommodation with the uaw for his reination and reelection. certainly a bailout can  be justified on the basis of the facts. does it deserve all the powers on the other side of the aisle. to me. one company going out of business. unemploying one person who has a family to feed. is as important as the chrysler corp. both deserve equal treatment from the senate. all i have indicated here today is that. i am  going to allow us to pass on chrysler legislation in a matter of 24 hours. or 48 hours. e of the senators k. as i do  k. what it is we are finally being asked to pass upon. the reason for the necessity of this colloquy this evening is the fact the energy bill has run too long and  there is a time bind. but that is  the reason for passing. or for rejecting. a particular piece of legislation. i think we have both expressed ourselves on the matter with as much substance as probably ought to be discussed here this evening. i can assure senators that i do  think the chamber did itself any great justice or did it achieve any great marks the other evening in a raw display of power. i would hope that this will  be the case for the chrysler legislation. but. rather. this issue is resolved in the mal course of events. i am perfectly satisfied. that when chrysler comes up. we will all be debating the merits of whatever is before us. i may have my differences on the substance of this matter. i have doubt we will get to that point. but a $1.5 billion or $1.25 billion bailout in the closing minutes. in the waning minutes of this session that i am  going to permit. i have called time and time again. in a variety of matters. for some relevance between what it is this chamber deems important and what it acts upon. and that which the american people feel important. and that which they ask action upon. for yearsfor yearsenergy policy. conservation. production. energy policy for whatever the excuse. yet. in a matter of days. we are going to attend to chrysler. god. if we attended in a matter of days to our energy policy. those 50 people would  be hostage in iran.  i do  k what form my opposition is going to take yet. i really. truly. do . but do i think this is an important matter. both in terms of money and in terms of principle. yes. if you deliberated as long as you havewe haveon the matter of energy. then certainly we can spend a few days on the chrysler matter. both in terms of its importance in dollars and in terms of its importance to the concept of free enterprise. i am sorry if somebodys politics will be "bugged" up. i am sorry if somebodys leadership is going to be impeded. i am sorry. gentlemen. both on this side of the aisle and the other. that the holiday. your holiday schedule is going to bei k the word i would like to usebut that your holiday schedule is going to be ruffled around a little bit. but the answer is that at this juncture i do  intend to get rolled by the majority leader. i intend to use my head. my brains. to do what i think is right. believe me. when the record book is spread out. with the exception of the lockheed matter in which i joined with senator proxmire and senator taft. i never engaged in a filibuster. if senators want to take a look at the record of filibusters. then please look to my friend over here on the other side of the aisle. do  look to the senator from the state of connecticut.
. i would like to annce for the information of the senate and the pubic that tile senate small business committee will hold a second day of hearings on interest rates and busixiess credit needs on thursday. september 24. 1981. the first day of hearing on this subject will be held on wednesday. september 23. 198 1. the hearings will convene on both days at 9:30 am. in room 424 of the russell senate office building. senator weicker will chair. for additional information please contact jim oconnell of the committee staff at 2245175. stiscommrrte8 on energy regulation
did the oil industry benefitthe distinguished senator from texas referred to the fact that the market was on the way up due to the pressures of opec a few years back. did  the producers in texas benefit from that rise in prices.
the senate committee on banking does  intend to beat them over the head. the senator says we need to conserve energy. he said "in this bicentennial year." but i believe we need to do it in every year besides the bicentennial year. too. we were faced  long ago with an energy crisis through an oil embargo.
. these steps. i am convinced. guarantee that. if some entirely unexpected ecoic event occurs which might affect heating oil prices. our consumers will be fully protected. in the meantime. i am confident that the reestablishment of a free and competitive market for our most vital energy supplies is the best protection for new england users of heating oil. exhibr 1
. i perhaps would have preferred the distinguished floor managers original position and i would have answered those questions differently. i am sure the distinguished senator from wyoming would agree with me. inasmuch as we are strong believers in the free enterprise system. that the consumer would have gone to a contractor to get the contract work and would have gone to a banking or financial institution to get the financing for it. but i think the senator from louisiana and his committee have done as good a job as they could under the circumstances. considering all the problems they have had to face. much of the underlying reasoning is  contained in the language of the bill. as the distinguished floor manager understands. therefore. i think it necessaryas this will be most helpful to the senate and. more important. it will be helpful to the countrythat we make this legislative history. there are certain questions i should like to ask. if i may. and have the distinguished floor manager of the bill respond. does it mean that customers will be asked to make the purchase decision based on estimated costs that perhaps could be provided together with a list of contractors and suppliers. and that customers could somehow enter into binding contracts with those on the list without having a guaranteed price. here. again. is a potential for. say. a ripoff. if the contractor is bound only by the price estimates of the utility energy audit. then the utility is in fact serving as the agent of the contractor and  of the consumer. cost estimates obviously can be made for items such as furnace modifications without examination of the individual home. how does the committee expect to have bids or a contract presented to the homeowner in just one meeting.
this is the last amendment i shall offer tonight. . utilities simply are  and should  be financial institutions. the special status as fha lenders would  only put the utilities in direct competition with savings and loans companies and other lending institutions but it would also give yet aher special federal protection to those few utilities whose programs are "grandfathered" under this bill. neither the utilities  these potential customers need this extra authority. the utilities who would receive it are the ones which voluntarily set up lending programs in the pool. clearly. they reviewed their lending capabilities and decided they had the resources to do so. in any case. fha insurance to financial institutions does  increase literally the capital supply. rather. it expands the number of potential borrowers by assisting the less creditworthy. if the argument for this measure is to insure that marginal credit risks can participate in utility programs. the senate should recognize that any wouldbe borrowers whom utilities turn down for credit reasons are free to apply to conventional lending institutions for an insured loan. and each year there has been more fha money for these purposes than has been spent. and lenders are trying actively to promote the use of these funds for energy conservation. i urge my colleagues to support removal of this special benefit provision. i assure them that it is  necessary and that. after lengthy research in this matter and working with it in the banking committee. this is  sound.
. that is my plea. you may be sure we will do the best we can. i have been told that the bitumis stocks in new england are adequate. it is true. of course. that they may  be able to get the kind of coal they want. you might have to burn something different than you would like to burn.
. in a speech before the new york state society of certified public accountants. earlier this year. i proposed a public interest code for american business. with our present hearings on the antitrust laws. the framework and the discussion we are likely to have today on the matter of steel prices. and the ethics of business involved. as they have been. in matters such as price fixing in the electric appliances industry. and so forth. i believe it might be very useful to present at least one members ideas in regard to what should be the code of ethics for american business. so i ask unanimous consent to have printed at this point in the record the article i wrote. which appears in the september 1961. issue of the journal entitled "the new york certified public accountant."
the senator stated that the language used was exactly the same as has been used in a number of other laws. i have found an example in the atomic energy law which is relevant to this matter. section 152 of the atomic energy act of 1958 reads as follows: an invention or discovery. useful in the production of utilization of special nuclear material or atomic energy. made or conceived in the course of or under any contract. subcontract. or arrangement entered into with or for the benefit of the commission. regardless of whether the contract. subcontract. or arrangement involved the expenditure of funds by the commission. shall be vested in. and be the property of. the commission. except that the commission may waive its claim to any such invention or discovery under such circumstances as the commission may deem appropriate. consistent with the policy of this section. there are other examples such as the national aeronautics and space administration act of 1958 and the national science foundation act of 1950. i k what the senator said to nasa administrator webb. i. too. as senator long did. sat in on the hearings before the senate small business committee. but. may i say as a lawyerand senator ervin has spoken as a lawyerthat the trouble with the amendment is that it is an immediate directive to the public domain. this may sound appealing. but. it could work out very badly because the race would go to the swift rather than to the just. the question that i put to my colleague. in view of the questions that are raised. is this: even if a conference committee is to take the measure and try to do what they can do with it. should  the purpose of the senate be to have such patents and inventions vested in the secretary. or whatever the operative government agency is under this particular bill. rather than an immediate dedication to the public domain with some of the dangers which i have just spelled out. the financial involvement of the government in a particular contract is an extremely important factor in a determination of patent rights under a contract. however. it is  the only factor. whether the contractor has contributed substantial experience. background. and funds on his own and whether the invention would have been a probable result of his acquired skills. experience. and own funds should also be taken into consideration.
. i want to call attention to the increasing number of large businesses which are making positive contributions to social and ecoic development in our cities. i have always: felt that private enterprise had a great role to play in .the building of our cities. and ihave tried always to implement this opportunity by legislation. i have recommended the establishment of an ecoic opportunity corporation to encourage the private sector to add its resources and talents to the fight against poverty. i hope the private industrys role in urban affairs will continue to expand. i ask unanimous consent to place in the record an article by james reston which appeared in last wednesdays new york times setting out some of the specific examples of business contribution.. he lists david rockefeller. henry ford ii. tom watson. of ibm. edgar kaiser. tom gates. of the morgan guaranty. as among 22 distinguished u.s. business leaders who issued a public statement in favor of the demonstration cities bill which we passed this past week. i would like to name the remaining 17 who are follows: stephen d. bechtel. of bechtel corp.. fred borch. of general electric. donald cook. of american electric power service corp.. howard clark. of american express. justin dart. of rexall drug. r. gwin follis. of standard oil of california. ben heineman. of chicago & th western railway. david kennedy. of continental illis national bank and trust. robert lehman. of lehman bros.. cyril magnin. of joseph magnin co.. john mccone. investment banker. stanley marcus. of neimanmarcus. alfred perlman. of new york central. herman peveler. of folk & western railway. stuart saunders. of pennsylvania railway. herbert silverman. of james talcott. and jack straus. of macys. there are also other business leaders. among them george s. moore. of the first national city bank of new york and arthur k. watson of ibm who have shown a gift for serving in this way. because i think this is so critically important for the future of this country. i ask unanimous consent to have the article written by mr. reston printed in the record.
. under the new senate code of ethics. i filed last month with the secretary of the senate a formal "statement of contributions and hoariums." in which i disclosed all substantial contributions or hoariums received by me during the last calendar year. the form is a public document to which the press has access. in addition. i filed under the senate rules a "confidential statement of financial interests." which includes lists of companies in which i have a direct or indirect financial interest. as that statement is filed with the comptroller general under the rules of the senate and is  open to public examination. i hereby publish a list of companies subject to some form of regulation by the federal governmentor which i feel may be doing some appreciable business with the federal governmentin each of which i have an interest. direct or indirectgenerally in a family trust of which i am trusteeas of this date. in an amount exceeding $5.000. these are mal investments in publicly owned corporations and constitute element of control alone or in combination with others. directly or indirectly: abbott labs. american & foreign securities corp.. baxter labs. cenco scientific inst.. cities service corp.. control data. corinthian broadcasting. criterion insurance co.. dupont. felmont oil. first national city bank of new york. general instrument. government employees corp.. government employees financial corp.. government employees insurance co.. government employees life insurance co.. south carolina electric & gas co.. southern co.. transamerica corp. of delaware. trans world airlines. white shield oil & gas.
. i join with senator cranston and others in the introduction of the emergency small business assistance act. as the ranking miity member of the select committee on small business i have had close contact with small businessmen throughout the energy crisis and thus k the severity of the problems that they face. small business is the ecoic backbone of this nation. it constitutes 971/2 percent of the business population in the united states. it accounts for an estimated 50 percent of the countrys employment and almost 40 percent of the gross national product. but the small businessman is in trouble. serious trouble. he has difficulty obtaining his essential fuel needs because he is often only a retail purchaser. he is being cut off from necessary supplies of petroleum related raw and processed materials because of their short supply. and. in many instances. his customers are unable to use his product or get to the point at which he supplies his service because of disruptions in buying patterns and transportation. unlike large businesses. however. the small businessman has cushion to help him survive this emergency period. he can  fall back on retained earnings. he can  turn to greater production or sale of aher product line  as severely affected. and he does  have the ecoic leverage to renegotiate his financing arrangements. it is to this last point that the instant bill provides a measure of relief to these thousands of businesses adversely affected. this legislation requires immediate additional appropriation. it makes use of the existing funds in the disaster relief moneys held by the sba. this fund presently amounts to $216 million. i strongly believe that more sba financing assistance will be necessary. but this bill lets the sba begin to administer the program before any additional funds are committed. after 90 days of actual experience with the program the sba will be in a much better position to evaluate its usefulness and its needs for further appropriations. the ecoic disaster currently facing large numbers of small businesses. if this help is  forthcoming. has parallel since the great depression. and yet by all estimates this emergency is temporary. although precise estimates vary. if we allow this crisis to destroy large numbers of our viable and efficient small businesses there will be way to recover them when the energy shortage ends. the leisure industry. the automotive sales industry. the plastics and petrochemicals industry. and the retail sales sector will be among those. buc by means the only types of businesses seriously adversely affected. this bill would help to insure that these businesses survive. i urge my senate colleagues to act without delay on this necessary measure.
