. this is intended to incorporate the language which we adopted in 1950 when we passed a bill somewhat similar to this to make it possible for certain existing intergovernmental agencies to participate in this program. time does  permit me to go into all the details of that bill. the purpose of these amendments would be to make it possible to use these surpluses for the needs of warravaged areas such as in korea. for refugees who have lost their homes because of war. and for the care of needy children in various parts of the world. through united nations agencies or other intergovernmental agencies. examples of how this might be done are the following: first. following the great devastation of the war in korea. millions of men. women. and children have been left homeless. and without proper clothing or food. estimates vary as to the damages wrought by the war. the south korean government published figures last fall indicating property damages exceeding $3 billion. in addition. their estimates indicate 52 million people as being without homes. the u. n. korean reconstruction agency has been given the task of restoring korea to a sound ecoic and social basis. over $600 million in cash and goods has been contributed or pledged by 54 governments. specialized agencies. and voluntary organizationsof which about $396 million has taken the form of direct relief. it has been estimated that over a billion dollars will be needed in the future for this job of relief and reconstruction. the united states congress has been more than generous in the pastand the last congress set aside $50 million for the use of unkra. one of the most constructive steps which this congress could take would be to devote a portion of our agricultural surpluses as direct relief to the korean people. through the facilities of this organization. which is well equipped to carry out such a program. second. a similar situation exists in the arab states. where the u. n. relief program for palestine refugees is  in its fourth year of operation. the u. n. relief and works agency for palestine refugees has under its care about 870.000 arab refugees in egypt. leba. syria. and jordan. the general assembly approved in 1951 a budget of $250 million for a 3year program of relief and reintegration. as of june 1953. $147 million had been contributed toward this goal. of which the united states had given $60 million. again. an opportunity exists for the fruitful utilization of united states agricultural surpluses for these neardestitute people. through the facilities of the u. n. agency supervising the problem. third. finally. the u. n. childrens fund is aher organization which could well utilize united states agricultural surpluses. in raising the health standard of the children of the world. the u. n. childrens fund has helped in one way or aher more than 60 million children in 78 countries. and has had a great deal of experience in coping with food and nutritional problems. for example. it could distribute powdered milk in areas where safe milk for children is practically existent. as a part of a worldwide campaign to lower infant mortality. as long as the fao estimates that twothirds of the worlds people go to bed hungry every night. and as long as infant mortality reaches such shocking levels in many countries. have we  a special duty to utilize some of our bounty for the worlds children. i do  believe these amendments would affect the bill adversely. i think they would provide an additional means for accomplishing the purposes of the bill. i am hopeful that the committee itself will feel that it would be helpful.
