. i believe the amendment is fundamentally illadvised and will  work. it could operate in such a way as to worsen recessions. it contains a bias toward increased taxes. it gives a miity of 41 members of the senate the power to prevent a response to threats to our national security. short of war. and to prevent a response to national ecoic emergency. its special voting procedures create the threat of stalemate. where action would be imposible. it is unworkable because attempting to maintain a balanced budget in the face of a sudden drop in revenues would require slashes in programs for which there is tremendous support in this body and in the country. it would encourage the creation of new budget devices to hide expenditures in off -budget agencies and accounts. it would act as an incentive to pass the costs of federal government to the states and local *governments and to the private sector. because it is unworkable. i think the amendment would discredit the constitution. so i urge my colleagues to exercise restraint. we should  tinker with the constitution but rather treat it with respect. reverence. and caution. we should  think of the constitution as possessing some inherent power that can of itself defeat the ingenuity of congresses and constituencies bent on evasion of its doctrines. i am sure that there is. for every problem. a solution that is appealing in its apparent simplicity. irresistible in its appeal to popular feeling. and wrong. this is such a solution. its objectives are understandable. but its theory is flawed. its mechanisms unworkable and its promise empty. i strongly urge that my colleagueb pause to reflect. then vote against this resolution.
. there is senator that cherishes the constitution more than this senator. i do  brush off lightly my concerns over amending it in this matter. but the more fundamental question is whether or  we owe it to our children to stop paying for our standard of living by jeopardizing theirs. i can ige the peril that awaits our children if we continue to ige the damage that we are inflicting on our ecoy by continuing to run huge deficits. to me. the legacy is much more omis than amending the constitution.
i wonder if i could present the counterargument to the senators proposal. the senator is saying that it goes against his grain and his philosophical belief that a* local community can impose socalled flow control. a local community can say: we are going to build an incinerator. we are going tobond it with revenue bonds. with the revenue coming from the requirement that. for everybody in this community and every business. all trash must go to this central facility. and the reason we. the town. say that. or the city says that. is because we have to pay off the bonds to pay for the facility. and the senator finds it disturbing. and understandably so. that in this legislation we are saying. " you can do that anymore. oh. yes. you can do itif you have some bonds outstanding." let us say the bonds have 18 years to go and that is the expected life of the facility. but beyond that.  you can have this proposal. it is a little bit like. i suppose the senator would say. big brother saying to the town of lak eland. or whatever it is in florida. whatever the town might be. "you cant do that." here is the other side of the argument. the other side of the argument says the constitution of the united states as interpreted by our courts says you can do this to start with. that way can you be able to issue these requirements that everybody in this local community must go to point a to .dump the trash. you can have some" local hauler come in and take it anyplaceto take it to rhode island. take it to texas. take it someplace else.  the supreme court of the united states says that it is unconstitutional to have restrictions that we provide for in this legislation. i look at it aher way. instead of saying it" is difficult to comprehend why big brother should step in and say why you can have flow controlor you can only have it for a limited period. instead the congress of the united states is saying. "despite the fact that flow control is against the constitution of the united states because it interferes with interstate commerce. we are still going to let you have it in order to pay off your bonds." so i look on it more as the congress giving rather than the congress taking it away.
i thank the distinguished senator from florida. i respond in this way: the senator from connecticut has many faults. but inconsistency is  one of them. insofar as the national security agency and the various intelligence and law enforcement agencies are concerned. i have long called for oversight and for bringing them into the act. if you will. under the direction of the american people. if i had my "druthers." i would view this legislation as rather conservative. as only one step. i would sweep everything under it. i might add that we create the sacred cows. there is hing in the constitution that gives sacred cow status to nsa. the federal reserve board. or anyone else. and they should  have it. i do  want to rake arthur burns over the coals. i would like to k what is going on so we never get to the point where he has to be raked over the coals. any more than anybody enjoys raking the cia or the nsa over the coals. if we all have input at the outset. there will  be need for any raking over the coals. we could all share the glories and the failures of any particular agency or any action of government. i can understand the arguments of the distinguished senator from new york. and i respect his point of view. but one thing that the senator from connecticut wants to say is that he is  inconsistent. i would apply this standard to all the agencies of government.
 let me say that i would hope that the proposition of the distinguished senator from tennessee is passed. i will say why. throughout this debate i have heard my distinguished colleague say very frankly the whole matter is unfortunate. in the sense of the legislation being raised here and that he would prefer to go some other route. i have heard from others of my colleagues that we did  have egh time or that it may be an imperfect time. we sat here and listened to the distinguished senator from maine who had every fact on his side. every piece of logic on his side. and it did  make any difference. he was rolled over. let us be candid as to what is going on here. there are some imageconscious peopleand i do  refer to my colleague from connecticut or the senator from wisconsinsome imageconscious leaders. who feel that somehow or other this is a must in order to bring distinction upon their heads and that of their party. the passage of this legislation has hing to do with fact. it has hing to do with logic. it has hing to do with time spent. it has hing to do with reform. that is the tragedy of the matter. as i said. if it just came down on our heads. if we made a bummer and that was it as far as each one of us was concerned. i would  care. but we are paying in the coinage of the constitution and that does  belong to each one of us. it belongs to everybody. let us  get the impression that i am offering opposition to ethics. my amendment at the desk is tougher than the ethics bill. the only difference between my amendment and the proposal of the senator from wisconsin is that my amendment is tougher on each of us. on all of us. the committee bill is tougher on some senators and all americans. that is the difference. it is  the mater of ethics or what is to be achieved. i just feel. very frankly. that it is obviously our omissions or commissions that have brought us to this state and we ought to pay our kids and  the system. it is a good system. it is a great constitution. and the people are bloody well intelligent. we are the ones that are the idiots. we prove it every minute that goes by in this legislation
. first of all. i would like to compliment the distinguished senator from . rhode island for a very eloquent statement on behalf of the constitution of the united states. it is  a popular thing to advocate the constitution these days. it is looked upon as something that can be dealt away in either large or small pieces and ody will care. indeed it seems to be the final receptacle in which to throw. all the trash or all the "hot potatoes" that ody else wants to handle here on the floor of the u.s. senate. what the senator from rhode island is doing here is to emphasize to the american people the importance of that document and the principles it espouses. our generation of americans has dealt away everything so there will be hing left for our children but this one last great statement of american ideals. that should remain intact. we have proceeded to use up all the trust funds and all the moneys that previous generations of americans carefully built up just so that we can enjoy the best of life in our generation regardless of the fact that we left hing behind. we have been willing to go ahead and abuse in principle those matters that other generations. previous generations. of americans were willing to fight and to die for just so that we could tiptoe off the stage with a little discomfort to our generation as possible.  this is the only thing that remains. the constitution. i will lvrant you it is  a job. it is  something to take home. it  dollars in your pocket. but in that document and what it espouses are the origins of the greatness of this country that has enabled a handful of people to achieve a greatness way beyond our numbers. that is its importance. the senator from rhode island has very courageously stepped forward so it might be understood what is being done here on the senate floor. do you think when a man is up for reelection. as is the senator from rhode island. that it is easy to make this type of statement. they can. i am sure. be translated politically into. "oh. there is jonn chafee from rhode island. big spender. he likes to unbalance the budget. he likes big deficits." that is what is going to happen. that is the way it will be translated by some political opponent or some philosophical group. let me say that there is man who espouses fiscal responsibility more consistently and more courageously than the senator from rhode island. so let us record that point here right . what. in effect. the senator is saying is that each congress. each change of philosophy. each change of administration. each change of partisanship should determine what the ecoic policies are going to be. it might be fashionable to balance the budget in the year 1982. and maybe it is in the year 1984 that some great catastrophe occurs and we should unbalance the budget. may i remind you that the present administration premised an entire ecoic game plan on a balanced budget. and only 1 year later premised the same ecoic game plan on an unbalanced budget. that occured in the course of 1 yeir. so let us clearly understand what jon chafee is fighting for right . it is  any particular fiscal policy or any particular phi. losophy. it is rather that the constitution of the united states should remain in place and that it should continue to mandate the type of government where the will of the people can be responded to in the short term. in the interim term or in the long term..i very much admire what he has said here. and i want to say so to his face. unfortunately. what he has said does  make great election sense or political sense. but it makes great constitutional sense. and his are the words of a great american. the senator from rhode island has discussed the constitutional issue that would arise in the event the proposal succeeds. in a similar vein. i would like to ask the senator if he thinks this proposed constitutional amendment is good law.
if there is one great untruth in this debate. it is the ion that the constitution of the united states is flawed. those who pursue this argument claim the legislative branch of the united states has incentive but to spend. anyone who acts otherwise with the finances of the united states is seen by these critics to be somehow irrational under our system of government. in effect. this argument says the constitution created and maintained corruption. the spoils of which go  to the greedy. but rather to every senator and representative who faithfully executes his duties under the constitution. this is a cynical argument. we can talk about the retreat of congress in the face of tough budget choices. or even its surrender. but it is hypocrisy to blame the erosion of congressional guts on the constitution. that document is crystal clear about fiscal authority. in the same manner. it is crystal clear about the tenure of senators and congressmen. all of whom can be thrown out of office on a regular basis if they fail to do their jobs.
i thank the distinguished senator from oregon. madam president. everything i read adays indicates that the financing system of this nation as it applies to politics is in desperate need of reform. and as the opening gamut in my remarks. i would like to quote from the watergate committee report. so that we all put ourselves in the proper context as to fact. the reforms that we are trying to reform on the senate floor are "the watergate reforms of the election financing laws." let me state what the watergate committee said: 7. the committee recommends against the adoption of any form of public financing in which tax moneys are collected and allocated to political candidates by the federal government. the select committee opposes various proposals which have been offered in the congress to provide mandatory public f inancing of campaigns for federal office. while recognizing the basis of support for the concept of public financing and the potential difficulty in adequately funding campaigns in the midst of strict limitations on the form and amount of contributions. the committee takes issue with the contention that public financing affords either an effective or appropriate solution. thomas jefferson believed "to compel a man to furnish contributions of money for the propagation of opinions which he disbelieves and abhors. is sinful and tyrannical." the committees opposition is based like jeffersons upon the fundamental need to protect the voluntary right of individual citizens to express themselves politically as guaranteed by the first amendment. furthermore. we find inherent dangers in authorizing the federal bureaucracy to fund and excessively regulate political campaigns. the abuses experienced during the 1972 campaign and unearthed by the select committee were perpetrated in the absence of any effective regulation of the source. form. or amount of campaign contributions. in fact. despite the progress made by the federal elections campaign act of 1971. in requiring full public disclosure of contributions. the 1972 campaign still was funded through a system of essentially unrestricted. private financing. what  seems appropriate is  the abandonment of private financing. but rather the reform of that system in an effort to vastly expand the voluntary participation of. individual citizens while avoiding the abuses of earlier campaigns. that was the watergate committee. in its official report. indeed. the reforms that were instigated in the name of watergate are what we are  out here trying to reform. i suggest that time is better spent on many other matters. it is fully my intention to oppose the amendment of the distinguished senators from west virginia and oklahoma. messrs. byrd and boren. and to oppose the amendment of the distinguished senators from oregon and kentucky. messrs. packwood and mcconnell. if you ask me what should be done. it is very simple. i think you can go ahead and junk the reforms that we are reforming out here and  pass the reforms that are being proposed and get back to a system where anybody can give anything they want to. as long as there is full disclosure. a few years ago. i stood on the floor of the united states senate bemoaning the ethics law we were passing insofar as our own body was concerned. saying that what we should do is have full disclosure. what might be abhorrent to the state of oregon might be acceptable in the state of connecticut. or vice versa. but. instead of a complex series of regulations and laws and staff and participation of the time of senators. there should be just a very simple matter of full disclosure by each senator. and let his own constituency decide. the same holds true of the giving of moneys. there is hing wrong with giving money in this nation. that is a first amendment right. it should  be restricted in any way. what the people of connecticut have a right to k is where the money comes from. if they do  like it. they can kick this senator out. i remember the great reformers in the name of watergate practicing their wiles upon the constitution and the political practices of this nation. and  we are in even worse shape.  we are out here to reform the reform. i do  k who we owe any obligation to but the people who elect us. we do owe an obligation both in terms of the integrity of our service and the integrity of kledge which they are entitled to have. so i suggest that we do our best to go ahead and kill the instant legislation before us. by any means whatsoever. and if my friends on this side of the aisle raise their legislation. i think we should do everything in our power to kill it. if people do  like what they have today. it is a result of the reforms of 10 years ago.
. on march 5. 1959. i introduced senate joint resolution 67 to amend the constitution so as to limit the right of states or their political subdivisions to tax the incomes of residents. the senator from connecticut has asked to be added as a cosponsor of my resolution. i ask unanimous consent that his name be added as a cosponsor.
at this timeand i emphasize the words "at this time." as to the merits of this question. the decision as to whether the poll tax should be eliminated by a law or by a constitutional amendment has been the subject of very longstanding debate. i refer all my colleagues to a very comprehensive law review article on the subject. entitled "the constitutionality of national antipoll tax bills." published in the minnesota law review for february 1949. this article analyzes the cases and the arguments in the greatest detail. and indicates that there is an emous amount of case law on this subject. as well as an emous amount of parliamentary activity. on five successive occasions the house of representatives has passed antipoll tax bills. let me give the specifications: in the 77th. 78th. 79th. 80th. and 81st congresses. on two of those occasions i served in the house. and had the privilege of supporting those measures. i point out that the house has passed such measures. for this reason: if we do  raise the question here. it is very likely to be raised anyway. it certainly will  go by default. very likely. if we send a constitutional amendment to the house. the house will pass a bill. and then there will be a stalemate. unless a conference can resolve the question of which approach to take. in this case there is hing to compromise. we either do it by statuteand what the statute says is aher matteror we do it by constitutional amendment. why should a person like myself. so interested in eliminating this encumbrance upon the voting right of the people of our country. take this route instead of accepting the easy way which is proposed by the constitutional amendment supported by so many senators. and letting it go at that. there are two reasons for that. both very persuasive and extremely important. the first lesson is that the path of constitutional amendments is thorny and time consuming. but even more than time consuming. it is a very uncertain path. it may or may  be approved by the requisite number of states. indeed. the record is quite extraordinary. i should like to give the facts to my colleagues. between 1927 and 1959. a span of 32 years. 1.819 constitutional amendments were proposed. eventually only three of that total number were ratified by the states as amendments to the federal constitution. the last amendment. which was the twoterm amendment relating to the presidency. required 4 years for approval by the requisite number of states. under those circumstances do  we who believe so very deeply that this practice is wrong. in terms of the national right to vote. have the right to feel that if we are to act on the question affirmativelyand we can act on it affirmatively by a statute which would effectively eliminate this incubusit should be done directly. and we should  have the stretchout which. at the very least. would result from a constitutional amendment. and. at the very worst. perhaps result in the defeat of this measure because it could  muster the support of the necessary number of 38 states. sometimes there is alternative. our constitution must be revered as well as observed. so the senator from tennessee has pursued the constitutional amendment route. because it is essential in the case of his proposal. we all agree on that. but here we have the very profound question. to say the least. of whether a statute could do the job of outlawing the poll tax. i certainly understand that i must demonstrate that. and i think i can. quite conclusively. the other body has acted on five occasions. by statute. any measure we might pass would have to be approved by the other body. it seems to me that the most prayerful consideration. to say the very least. must be given to. and the most considered vote must be taken on a question of such importance. that is the first point. the other point is equally important. we do  live in a dreamworld. we live in a very practical. working world. everyone. including the proponent of the proposed amendment. ks that we are about to enter into a very full. and perhaps very heated. debate on all issues of civil rights. and that among those issues. and very prominent among those issues. is that of voting. many measures will be suggested. some with administration support. some with the support of a majority in this chamber. and some with heavy support. though  necessarily a majority. those measures will deal with the very same question. the right to vote. and the question of what limitation there is upon the power of the state in respect of restricting that right. once we adopt the principle of going to the country with a constitutional amendment whenever we materially touch the right to vote. it seems to me that that principle might very well be invokedbecause the senate would have approved itin connection with many other measures. let me give my colleagues an example. we can be very practical. one of the provisions in almost every bill on this subject. including the bill of the majority leader. and the administrations package. is the preservation of voting records for a stated period. the constitution provides that the congress shall have the right to determine the manner. place. and time of holding elections for senators and members of the house. is the preservation of voting records included in the "manner. place. and time". there may be a great deal of argument on that question. but if we establish the precedent proposed. the easy way to do it is to have aher constitutional amendment. that is only one example. we shall constantly be faced with the hard rock of the argument. "you have already decided it. whenever there is any doubt about it. go to the country with a constitutional amendment." we k the leaden weights which such a procedure would place on the feet of any civil rights legislation. we do  go to the country with a constitutional amendment every wednesday. the senate would be placed on record upon an issue which i think is very clear upon the cases and the law. that a constitutional amendment is needed when it is  needed. if i and others like me allowed such a question to pass by default. it would be a dereliction of duty for which i could never forgive myself. i think that is true of many other senators. when i first came to offer my proposal. in view of the fact that it was imminent. and we all knew that the distinguished senator from florida would offer his proposal. and i sought cosponsors on my measure. it was possible to persuade some 24 other senators to join me in my proposal. interestingly egh. 17 of the 24 are in the group of 66 senators who sponsor the constitutional amendment method.
what my statutory approach and what the statutory approach adopted time and again in the house seeks to reach is the voter himself. if. therefore. the voter is to vote for electors. then his right to vote shall  be inhibited or encumbered by a poll tax. in short. if he does vote. the poll tax shall  represent a prerequisite to voting. it seems to me that that scheme is entirely consistent with every phase of the constitution. whatever function the voter performs. he shall perform it free of any requirement for a poll tax. that is the point of my statutory approach. and i think it is the point of the senators proposed constitutional amendment. i do  see where we would run afoul of any difficulty in respect of other matters in the constitution so long as we limit whatever we do with respect to the particular voter and his ability to vote when he is called upon to do so.
i should like to read it into the record so we all k what we are talking about. it is the second volume of the hearings before the subcommittee on constitutional amendments of the committee on the judiciary of the senate held june 27. 28. and 29. in that regard i should like to point out the opinion of the attorney general of the united states. mr. katzenbachs superior. as recently as march 13. 1962. in which he said: i believe congress has the power under the constitution to enact legislation abolishing state poll tax laws applied to federal elections. i hold with the attorney general. i have defined my reason for that conclusion in terms of the law as being an effort by my substitute for the senators constitutional amendment to reach the voter when. as. and if the voter is exercising his privilege of voting. at that point i say he shall  be in any way subject to the requirements of a tax. to wit. the poll tax.
it should also be made clear what the bill as it  stands iii the house is all about. so that is fully understood that it is neither new  radical  departs from the american tradition of preserving both human rights and property rights. the group of republican house judiciary committee members who yesterday filed their additional views on the bill made this point in detail. i strongly urge all members to read that excellent documentation of the merits of each title of the bill in part 2 of the printed report. house report 914. finally. i have for some time. in collaboration with my distinguished colleague. senator hart. been canvassing the federal departments and agencies to determine the extent to which federal tax moneys are being spent to support state programs which are segregated or discriminatory. and whether the departments. and agencies believe they have legal power under the constitution. without enactment of further legislation on the subject. to withhold funds from such programs. on july 2. senator hart and i introduced into the record the letters which we had each sent and the answers which we had then received. almost all the replies indicated that there is constitutionally derived authority to remedy this situation even without further congressional authorization and specified what action was in fact being taken. at that time three .departments had  yet submitted full replies. since then. two of the three have done so. the department of labor. which had given a partial answer. and the department of agriculture. the third. the department of health. education. and welfare. has as yet submitted only a partial answer which to me appears to differ from the bulk of the other replies by selecting among the statutes which that department administers. enforcing discrimination under some but  under others. this i find unwarranted. since the power and duty to withhold funds from unconstitutional activities is.derived from the constitution itself.  from the individual enactments of the congress. . i ask unanimous consent to have my letters to these three departments. and their replies since received. printed in the record at this point in my remarks.
one could concede everything that has been said by both senators from vermont and still make the same arguments we are making as they are directed to areas in which the poll tax has been used and. as reported by reliable government commissions. including the civil rights commission. is prejudicing or denying the right to vote. all we ask is that the law as we write it may preserve the opportunity to make every provision of the constitution available to the attorney general and give every voter the right to appeal to the attorney general. this can be done without in any way complicating the voting system of the state of vermont. . i suggest the absence of a quorum.
this has been a matter of longstanding interest to me. i carefully analyzed the various briefs which have been submitted and the analyses of the law. and i think there is question about the settled practice since really the foundation of the republic. and i think the case is even stronger here on constitutional grounds because it is property which is  the property of any state. which is a critically important point to me. even if the socalled jefferson doctrine should for some reason be applied by the supreme court. which i do  believe that it will. finally. i think it is critically important. too. to e there is desire by the senate to exclude the house from consideration of this matter. this treaty requires implementing legislation. the committee on foreign relations has worked very hard to see that that implementing legislation gets over here. and from all the information i have it will be here in plenty of time. the house of representatives will. by acting. show its concurrence in these treaties before they can be actually implemented. but the issue which is raised of a twohousethe need for a twohouseaction on these treaties defies the constitutional mandate. it seeks to turn the constitution in some other direction and. hence. the senate. when it says " to that. as i hope it will. when it approves these treaties is  acting to preserve its own prerogatives. it is acting to preserve the structure of the constitution. there is a lot of complaint about the celerity and the capacity with which the executive department can negotiate. and that is a critically important point. whatever is the constitutional form. we should observe in the interests of making our democracy as efficient as possible. it seems to me that by trying to break down what is such settled practice we add a e outside the constitution. which makes our constitution less workable. so i emphasize that point because it is so easy to popularize the idea that. "well. the senate wants to hold onto its own prerogatives and show that it is the senior body." hing could be further from the truth. the house would be just as right and just as strong. and it is literally every day. in revenue measures. to be sure that revenue measures started there. that appropriations measures started there. i do  k of anybody who charges that that is just to build up their prerogatives. it is the constitutional way that the more popular body. in the sense of election directly from districts. and so forth. and more numerous than ourselves. keeps the basic and first control over the purse strings. so. too. with us. we were established to keep the basic and first control in respect of the treaty power. and i think it is our duty rather than building up our prerogatives to see that that constitutional structure is protected
