s strategy of remaining engaged in quiet diplomacy rather than harsh rhetoric. simply stated. we should allow this process to continue. we will have aher bite at the apple in june when mfn comes up for review again. if we should deny mfn status to china. the united states congress would be killing american jobs. in my state of rhode island. the worlds largest toy company. hasbro. has hundreds of american jobs dependent on a portion of its products being made in china. if we deny hasbro that source. we will give hasbros foreign competitors. who are all obtaining a portion of their products in china. an incredible advantage. when we have nations such as sweden. england. switzerland. denmark. and in fact every other country in the world giving mfn status to china. we must ask ourselveswhat do they k that we dont. i do  believe that these countries care less about human rights and weapons proliferation than does the united states. the simple fact is that around the world there is near unanimous agreement that trade sanctions are  an effective manner in which to effect change in china. i urge my colleagues to vote against this conference report.
. all of our colleagues are deeply interested in what will be the indicia of success in this struggle against communism. how do we k that in this program for which we are paying so substantially and making so many sacrifices forhow will we k when we begin to succeed. i say to my colleagues we already k that it has begun to succeed in the defection of yugoslavia from the soviet bloc. this defection will ultimately be in my view the single. significant fact of history which showed the recession of the soviet power. the end of the soviet power will be when all of the satellites. including china. are detached. but. the beginning of the end of the soviet power is shown by the defection of yugoslavia. certainly. tito is a communist. a hard headed and a very practical one seeking the prcteztion. i believe. of his own power. and that of his group and of his own country. how did he look at it in this cold war as soon as he felt that the russians could  successfully use force on him. what did he decide. he decided under these policies which are contained in this bill that it was better for him to work with the west than to continue to string along with the soviet union. why. because he felt that ultimately the soviet union and the communist group which had control of it had to be defeated. it seems to me that yugoslavias defection is among the important evidences of the rightness of the general lines of policy dealt with in this bill. it is an elementary principle in diplomacy and of military affairs that you must ride your strength. you must drive your offensive. that is  the time to quit when you begin to succeed. that is the time to put on the steam and to drive even harder. that is exactly the purpose of this bill. we are beginning to show signs of success in this struggle against communism. and i am for pressing that success to a final and decisive conclusion.
