s submission of a budget request of $22 million is too low and reflects some of the upsidedown priorities of this administration. the bill. as we all k. makes a number of technical amendments. but. more than this. i think it represents an opportunity to state in unequivocal terms our support for both the endowment for the arts and endowment for the humanities and for the very able and dedicated leadership given by roger stevens and barnaby keeney. furthermore. i think the bill today affords us the opportunity to hold out some hope and some real support to the colleges. to the artists. to the humanists. and to the many who question whether this congress and this nation place sufficient priority on the ethical side of life. the establishment of the foundation 3 years ago represented our recognition as a nation that the quality of our life in cultural and intellectual endeavors is as important as our record of material success. george washington. several centuries ago. said something that is quite pertinent today: the arts and the sciences are essential to the prosperity of the state and to the ornament and happiness of human life. the rockefeller brothers panel made it clear in their recommendations thatthe arts are  for a privileged few. but for the many. that their place is  on the periphery of society but at its center. that they are  just a form of recreation but are of central importance to our wellbeing and happiness. i think it is very clear today. . that the arts suffer from a very serious financial deficit. and i will be happy to discuss that in some detail. it is equally clear that there is a very major imbalance between support for the arts and the humanities on the one hand and the sciences on the other. taking the humanities versus the sciences. this congress has appropriated for the sciences in the fiscal year approximately $16 billion. and for the humanities only $5 million. if one looks at what is being done by foundations. one sees equally that the foundations are giving something on the order of $1.2 billion to the sciences. and a mere $16 million to the humanities and $27 to $28 million to the arts. equally. less than 11/2 percent of the corporate philanthropic dollar goes to the arts and the humanities. the effect of this has been very clear on the student. on the teacher. on our educational institutions and on the quality of their facilities and programs in the humanities. the humanities are at the very core of our college curricula and provide the basic values against which the student measures his kledge. poses his questions. judges his progress. and formulates his own standards. the humanities are  an abstraction but include several clearly defined disciplines. such as modem and classical languages. literature. history. jurisprudence. philosophy. archeology. political theory and political ecoy. and the history. criticism. theory and practice of the arts. there are many who  believe that this congress and this nation are  going to support the humanities with the same degree of energy and conviction with which we support the sciences. the result is that many young men and women in the universities are going into the sciences where the research grants may presently be obtained. in the humanities many recognize that they may  have a decent place to work. that they may  have money for necessary research assistants. that they may  have money for books. clerical help. the use of computers. or even that they may  be paid salaries sufficient to meet the expenses of their families. so i believe it is time that this congress recognized this imbalance and strongly supported the humanities. equally. in the arts. there is a deficit today of at least 30 percent overall in the performing arts. of perhaps 60 percent in ballet. and. in symphonies. perhaps 40 percent. of our 61 major symphony orchestras. only about 12 have a reasonable hope of remaining alive financially. similarly. there are only five or six major opera companies in the country today and only four significant dance groups. overall. the income gap of the performing arts was estimated at $20 to $23 million in 1964 and will rise by 1975 to $48 to $61 million. at the present time. this country has only five permanent resident theater companies. ideally. we should have at least 10. including a national theater. of all the existing performing arts groups. it is quite clear that only a handful can take their survival for granted. in terms of salaries. of the 12.000 members of actors equity in new york. only about 100 are able .to make a living from their work on broadway. the situation is much the same- for the members of the american guild of musical artistsonly about 300 of these dancers can make a living from their professional work. practitioners of the visual artspainters. sculptors. and the likealso find it difficult to earn an adequate living from their work. especially those recently out of school and still in need of training.
. in testimony before the select subcommittee on education. the administration indicated its belief that "the time is right to provide the states with more flexible authority which would reduce their administrative burdens and permit them to build on their experience under the act by assuming greater discretion in allocating funds among these areas according to their own priorities." in reducing five existing library programs to three. the bill before us represents major steps in the direction of the administrations goal. more than 85 million people have benefited from the programs of the library services and construction act since its inception in 1964. yet a very great deal remains to be done. libraries must become more than mere repositories of books. they must be living resource centers for an urban neighborhood a suburban community. a rural town or an entire region. all this requires much money and public library income this year is expected to be $450 million short of the recommended $5 per capita. the backlogged needs for library services and equipment are in themselves costly. in 1968. the office of education estimated that it would require a lumpsum expenditure of $1.6 billion to stock school libraries optimally. just to make up the backlog of space required to construct centralized school libraries where they did  exist in 1961 would require $2.145 billion. about 40.000 schoolsor 40 percent of the total of public elementary schoolsstill lack libraries. funds appropriated in fiscal year 1969 provided 9 million books and filmstrips to elementary and high school childre about one book or one filmstrip for every five children participating in the title ii program. yet. the standard is three filmstrips per pupil. and the number of volumes of books needed to bring school libraries up to standard is estimated to be 425 million. the national advisory commission on libraries termed "emous" the needs of schools for books. library materials and facilities to house them. outside of schools. more than 15 million americansor 7 percent of the populationlack access to public library services. finally. the authorization figures included in this bill. especially for public library construction. are very modest ones in terms of the need. they reflect a realistic goal for the federal contribution in this area. rather than an indication of how much money is necessary to do the job. in my view. it is incumbent upon this and successive administrations to recommend budget authority consistent with these levels. for the current fiscal year. the budget request for library programs is but onethird of the amount authorized. to do anything less than these levels would be once more to rely on rhetoric instead of funds to meet a major national need. and thereby to dash the hopes. the curiosity and the future of countless americans.
