i thank the distinguished senator. i agree with him. again i have to repeat that what is needed is going to be money and lots of it both in terms of education and in terms of research. figures of the national academy of sciences are $1 billion for education. and that should be frontloaded because it is the best weapon we have right . and $1 billion for research. well. just wait until you hear the debate. it is great for everybody to cite the problem and the problem is everything the senator says it is. everything he says it is. everything the senator from missouri said it was. it is all there. the greatest threat ever posed. but. what i suggest to the senator is that the way to resolve it is going to be in this wellmeasured scientific way both by education and research. and right  for me to reply contrary to the advice of those of medicine insofar as marriage licensing is concerned. i do  think is the way to start this congressional response to the threat of aids. i am still waiting. . for senator wilson to appear. he wants to address this matter
. i join my colleagues in saying "au revoir" but  goodbye to stephen young. i hope very much that we shall see him often as he continues to keep offices in washington and ohio. the fact that so many have referred to his sprightly life is just the kind of tribute which is most richly deserved by him. he has never allowed us for one moment to doubt his willingness to be judged with all the rest of us. without any indulgence for the fact that he has lived a life longer than most of us. which is so typical of him. i have also appreciated his deeply held liberal views: that the government is the instrument of the people. to provide them with greater security. and greater ecoic and social justice as well as peace and tranquility. that the public servant who is doing what he thinks is right is doing so only because that is his duty. that is one reason steve young has been able to tell unruly constituents of his where to get off when that became necessary. senator young has displayed a real depth of conscience where the people are concerned. he has been especially sprightly in both physically and in ideas. which have been an inspiration to those of us here in the senate as well as in the rest of the country. i also admire him for the toughness of his ideas. for his convictions which are deeply and profoundly held. i shall never forget the constancy of his ideasalthough i did  agree with him on many of those occasions. especially the one he pursued on the civil defense issue. which he said was a boondoggle and a waste. but i feel that his very persistency. and the profundity of his convictions. had a material effect in rationalizing that policy. he has lived to see the day when it is more rationalized than when he first took up the matter. similarly. as the senator from arkansas has said with relation to the war in vietnam. he first conceived the truth of this matter and pursued it indefatigably. king its effect upon his fellow countrymen. i join with the other senators in wishing senator young continued health and a sprightly. long. and happy life.
