. southern opponents of the bipartisan civil rights bill repeatedly try to shift attention from the social order in their states. which in many cases is built upon denying the federal constitutional rights of negroes. by regaling the senate with horror stories about conditions in the th in general and in new york city in particular. these attempts occasionally become so misleading that they must and should be answered. two such cases have arisen repeatedly in debate in recent weeks. opponents of the bill have. in the course of their lengthy discussions of title vii. the equal employment opportunity title of the bill. referred to u.s. bureau of the census statistics which indicate that unemployment rates are higher for whites in some thern states which already have fep laws than in some southern states. which do  and in which discriminatory hiring policies are pursued. what they conveniently fail to point out is the difference in comput-. ing the unemployment statistics for states which have basically agricultural ecoies as compared with states which have basically industrial ecoies. sharecroppers and other farmworkers in southern states are included among the employed in the census bureau statistics even though they often work only 1 or 2 days a week and are often living at a bare subsistence level. i have asked the census bureau to confirm this and have received from the bureau a letter quoting from a forthcoming report entitled "farm population. series censusers (p27).  34." this report will be released jointly by the ecoic research service of the department of agriculture and the bureau of the census. the bureaus letter quotes from the report as follows: unemployment rates are typically about twice as high in the farm population as in the farm group. the general explana3 tion offered is that the large proportion of selfemployed persons among farm people results in a low formal unemployment even during periods of ecoic difficulty. also farmers who combine parttime farming with offfarm work are still technically employed (through their farming) if they lose their farm job. the relevant and revealing statistics are those which show the median income of whites and whites in the several states and the estimated lifetime earnings matched against the years of school completed for whites and whites in the several states. as the senators in charge of title vii of the billsenators case and clarkhave shown. the statistics which correctly measure the real difference between the ecoic opportunities for negroes in the southern and thern states do support our contention that fair employment practice laws are helpful in assuring equality of earning opportunity. the figures show that the discrepancy between the median earnings of white workers and those of white workers has been increasing in recent years and that this difference is much more pronced in the south than in other parts of the country. they also show that. while in the nation as a whole the lifetime earnings of whites are 40 percent of those of whites. in the south they are 32 percent. aher favorite diversion of the bills opponents consists of alluding to crime rates in major thern cities. with special emphasis on new york city. the facts are carefully iged in these flights of rhetoric. which usually dwell on the general proposition that everyone in new york city fears to venture forth on the streets at night. one deprecates crime more than i do. or the failure of citizens to assist the police in apprehending criminals. as in the recent geese case. which has been cited. for example. but that should  obscure the fact that the federal bureau of investigation crime statistics indicate clearly that the streets of new york city are actually safer than those of a number of southern cities. including atlanta and savannah. in georgia. from which some of the severest criticism on this issue has been directed toward us. i would  cite these figuresfor i am proud of every part of our countryexcept for what has been stated in this debate about crime in certain cities.
. suppose we did cut off aid to turkey. if we became so upset with the situation that we did that. despite the fact we give material aid. a major problem is still presented to us. the allegation is made that if we cut off aid we might materially increase illicit opium production because it would become a source of income and they apparently are  worried about heroin addiction in their country. also there are the other sources of illicit production. the state legislature in my state of new york feels we should buy up and destroy the poppy crop of turkey. the state legislature of new york memorializes the congress to do that and offered to pay a material part of the cost. so terribly damaging to our state and the crime situation related to heroin addiction. particularly. but if we did that. and i am all for it. there is hing to stop some other country similarly situated. as we discovered in the burmathailandlaos triangle. from raising whatever are the demands produced by this illicit market. so the problem is a sticky one. but i am confident that international means can control it. international means have controls over problems such as white slavery and slavery. it can be done. i raise these points to show why in our amendment the senator from iowa
