john g. dow. joseph y. resnicx. and seymour halperni submit to my colleagues. and to the nation. a matter of tragic american -history.. we are presently experiencing a silent revolution. with sounds generating throughout the land .from -such localities :as selma. birmingham. meridian. and .other .areas th. east. south. and west. e of us is untouched by the wave of emotion and activities that sweeps from -one coast to the other. and the lives of every american. from -this decade .on. have been discernibly changed by events such as the act of june 21. 1964. on that unforgettable day the lives of three american citizens were ruthlessly eradicated. it was an act of such wanton violence that people throughout the world recoiled in horror. it was an act of such callous violation of the law that people throughout this country reacted in fear. such was the emotional upheaval that resulted from the attack on law and order that a whirlwind of change began to spin in every city and town in the nation. the whirlwind of change is  gathering force and power as it blows across the far reaches of this continent and rushes down constitution avenue and into the very chambers of this great hall. the sounds generated by this whirlwind turn to a call for freedom. freedom of choice. freedom from want. freedom from fear for all our citizens. matter what the color of their skins. the greater tragedy of this event is that the three american citizens who were so wantonly murdered were the representation of the youth of this -country. they were boys who had been moved by the misery of others and who had acted in the american tradition. they had followed the greatest concepts of 2.000 years of what we call our -civilization. they chose to combat the pparent injustice by teaching and by good works. and for their lessons of equality. for their practice of violence. for their love of their fellow men. they were brutally murdered and casually interred within a crude dam that was meant to hold back the rising -tide of a rabid countryside. gentlemen. we the undersigned -of the new york delegation to the congress .of the united .states. take a particular .interest in the memory and the association -of these martyred boys. because two of themcame from the .city of new york. we pay homage to all three. because the exemplify the kind of american we would wish ourselves to be. michael schwerner was born in new york city. he was .a graduate of the new york school .of social work. and had been a staff member of hamiltonmadison house .in new york city. prior to organizing the meridan center for the youth of that community. his parents  reside in pelham. n.y. andrew goodman. whose parents re.side in new york city. was a 20yearold student who volunteered to spend his summer teaching and helping those who were being deprived -of their full rights as american citizens. james -chaney had grown up in meridian. had worked in meridian. had attended school in meridian. and died in meridian along with two neighbors from new york. it becomes. therefore. just and fitting that we ackledge the historic signifiicance of their sacrifice and that we :express our heartfelt gratitude for their sacrifice. it is our express hope and wish that all :citizens throughout the land commemo:rate the anniversary of their -deaths. -that we remember the date of june 21. 1964. as a milestone in our american heritage. we urge all the citizens ofour own .city of new york to make a special effort to .establish this date. .and this period. as .one  to be forgotten. we -urge that they associate these young men. and the :anniversary of their deaths. with the social strivings for a better community .and a better world for .every citizen :and .group of citizens within our state. it would be :fitting that during this .first anniversary period a special commemorative period be established to ho the memory of these three boys and salute the efforts of all the others who have moved courageously toward the continuation -of this american struggle in all parts of thecountry. we urge the executive branches -of government. both on the .state and municipal levels. to take appropriate action for the creation of a truly significant commemorative -period during the month of june. we urge that industry. both manufacturing and retail. in the city of new york participate with local govern.ment in displaying the photographs of these boys prominently. and we urge that they all participate in special ceremonies tomark this period. we recommend that all persons. institutions. and "business organizations within new york take the opportunity at this particular time to expand the "horizons of all people within our community and join "in the battle to eliminate the cruel racial barriers that still exist in schools. .industry. and neighborhoods. we -also join those who take justifiable pride in the great work performed in this area by many of our people. we are aware that.plans are  under way to finance and construct a community center in meridian. miss.. devoted to the memory of these -three boys. we most emphatically endorse this project which can only add to the betterment of understanding .amongst people in this country. it is our firm belief that we are  .on .the .road that will .lead us to a newer .and brighter future for all the citizens .of this nation. .a road which will open great and magnificent horizons to future generations. therefore. we wish to take our rightful position on this road and to progress side by side with the men .of good will from everywhere in this country. and we can ho these boys most by enacting a .strong voting rights bill. :including .an explicit ban on state poll taxes. .12642
. as the cosponsor with senator fell. i urge my colleagues to support s. 2048. legislation that would designate the titanic an international maritime memorial. the bill directs the united states to negotiate with other nations to establish international guidelines for research. exploration. and. if appropriate. salvage of the shipwreck. the bill was recently reported out of the senate foreign relations committee and the house companion bill. h.r. 3272. was passed last december. you all k the story of the "unsinkable" titanic. which. in 1912. collided with an iceberg off the coast of newfoundland and sunk 21/2 miles to the ocean floor. over 1.500 lives were lost. and the tragic event changed maritime history forever. new regulations that would provide increased safety at sea were implemented in the years following the disaster. the joint united statesfrench team which discovered the titanic was under the direction of dr. robert ballard of woods hole ocearaphic institution. the team initially located the shipwreck with an unmanned sub.... s 13629 mersible. and dr. ballards latest trip to the site this past july was in the threeman submersible alvin. using sophisticated undersea techogy. dr. ballard found an underwater museum: thousands of artifacts were strewn over the ship and ocean floor. the remotely operated camera attached to alvin traveled down the grand staircase to view the ballroom with its chandelier still hanging. uncorked champagne bottles and unbroken fine china survived the 21/2mile fall to the bottom. dr. ballard and his colleagues determined that on impact with the iceberg. the portion of the hull where the gash was supposed to be had actually buckled where the steel plates popped their rivets and separated. throughout. the scientific expedition proceeded with its mission while maintaining the archeological history of the site. the passage of this legislation serves several purposes: it provides a forum to resolve the potential conflicts of interest between scientists. salvors. archeologists. and family and friends of those who perished. an understanding of how to treat the shipwreck lies in legislation that will commemorate the lives lost and allow the rest of the world to see and learn from the tragic event. s. 2048 does just that. since the shipwreck lies in international waters. the bill seeks to promote a spirit of cooperation between countries. a spirit that would create a common goal: to stimulate research and exploration on the titanic and encourage those who would be involved in those activities to refrain from physically disturbing the wreck or recovering artifacts until there has been fair opportunity to develop international guidelines or agreements. specifically the bill directs the secretary of state to consult with the administrator of the national oceanic and atmospheric administration when negotiating with interested nations. full participation in the guideline development process by other interested u.s. federal agencies. academic and research institutions. and the public is encouraged. this legislation has the support of the administration and requires authorization of funds. the bill does  prohibit u.s. citizens from exploring or salvaging activities in the absence of similar restrictions on citizens of other interested nations. again. i urge swift passage of this legislation. so the titanic can receive the proper treatment she so richly deserves. the bill was ordered to be engrossed for a third reading. read the third time. and passed. as follows: s. 2048 be it enacted by the senate and house of representatives of the united states of america in congress assembled.
ial campaign. wrote folliard: they like "harry". those people who have been gathering along the railroad tracks all across the continent and down the pacific coast. they like him a lot. you can see it in their faces as they look up at him there on the rear platform of the ferdinand magellan. smiling and waiting for the high school band to finish hail to the chief and the missouri waltz. we will miss this man. americans have lost a gifted servant and a treasured friend. to his lovely widow and devoted daughter. my family and i express our sincere condolences. grieving at his loss. rejoicing in his life.
. i think a short explanation of this bill will cover it fully. for a long time there has been on the books of the district of columbia a statute which has imposed a license fee of $100 a vehicle a year upon those operating sightseeing busses within the district of columbia. it had been the custom for a long time  to assess that tax upon those who brought in their vehicles from outside the district. about a year ago. however. it developed that one company was operating a regular sightseeing bus business from baltimore into the district of columbia. a test case was brought and the license fee of $100 was held to apply. it then developed that. as the statute stood on the books. it would mean that each bus transporting school children from long distances to see the city of washington during their graduation period would have to pay a license fee of $100. which. of course. is an exorbitant fee for such a privilege. the license never was intended to apply to that sort of situation. the house of representatives. accordingly. passed this bill to meet that situation. but passed it in such general terms that it became necessary to amend it as has been here done. the house provided that the license fee would  apply when the visit of the vehicle was occasional. and would  apply when the visit came from outside the district of columbia. that second provision would immediately bring back the difficulty which arose from vehicles from baltimore engaging regularly in the business. so the senate committee amendment provides that any vehicle coming from outside the district may come in under the auspices of a single company for 15 days within a calendar year. and that shall be the definition of "occasional." buses coming more frequently than 15 days would be subject to a $100 license fee. aher feature is that the senate bill  exempts all vehicles coming from anywhere which bring in school children and those who are looking after the school children. so the bill as reported to the senate meets the situation somewhat better than does the house bill. and makes the exemptions more definite.
i want to join the senator and the senator from new york in supporting this amendment. it is illogical and contrary to textbook theory as to what is good procedure. it is absolutely necessary. we who represent areas of the country which need mass transit are shortchanged by the legislative branch and the executive branch alike. and the only way we can get anything like the amount necessary is by some artful dodge like this. it is a shame it has to be done. but it must be done. congress has done better than the executive branch recently in this matter. we authorized and appropriated $900 million and we can only get $600 million released. this is too bad. even this is far too little. the senators amendment. while contrary to. as i say. textbook authority. and contrary to the kind of thing we learned at our mothers knee in the school of good government. is necessary. sometimes we have to rise above principle to get justice.
. our subcommittee has received testimony on the need for this test center and the secretary has endorsed its location at east liberty. ohio. the center would facilitate nhtsas compliance with the motor vehicle and school bus amendments of 1974. these amendments invite interested parties to petition for the development of new standards and./or question the compliance with existing standards. nhtsa is required to respond in 120 days to such petitions. the test center would permit the rapid evaluation needed to implement the legislation. for these reasons i support the inclusion of the necessary funds at this time.
. i too. served under judge kee as the chairman of the foreign affairs committee. and it has been said so truly by our colleague from missouri. that he was a great chairman. he was a great chairman because he had the true essence and heart of a lawyer. he was completely judicious. may i say. because this is the time to speak of personal experiences. that my great feeling about judge kee was the workmanlike quality he understood so well. we can all learn from him that there is magic road to greatness of leadership. that it is a lot of very hard work. we have had sessions in the foreign affairs committee in the past many times that went far into the night. engaged in drafting meticulously individual pieces of legislation. i shall never forget the picture of judge kee at those sessions chiseling and perfecting every word. helping others with their amendments. doing his utmost in workmanship. stone by stone. the polishing and cleaning which makes us what we are. the great legislative body of the greatest country on earth. i hope very much that his own family will look on him  only in terms of the father. the husband. the warm. human. gentle being who has been so beautifully described here today. but also as the workman king his magnificent art. working at it constantly and. while even as we all k so sadly today. until the very moment of death itself.
i do  forget it at all. there are still many studentsand parentswho would have a perfect right to go to their school and say. "i do  like to go to this school. it is 98 percent negro. i do  believe i am learning egh. i should like to see a little more of the world. so will you transport me to some other part of town so that i can get a better look at mankind." do i understand correctly that the senators amendment would prohibit that.
. i report herewith on the results of a survey on schoolbus safety which i sent to sample residents throughout new york state. with the exception of the heavily urbanized areas of new york city. buffalo. rochester. and albany where travel by schoolbus is  as usual a practice as elsewhere in the state. also included in my report today is a letter from secretary of transportation claude s. brinegar responding to my inquiries about current transportation department efforts on schoolbus safety. of nearly 4.000 responses. the overwhelming majority96 percentexpresses concern regarding the safety of children traveling daily to and from school in buses. some 45 percent of all new york state schoolchildren. and supported efforts to improve safety factors. a sizable proportion of the respondents5.5 percentindicate that greater stress should be placed on the training and selection of schoolbus drivers. several persons. for example indicated that they felt that the buses were only as safe as their drivers while others cited examples in which drivers drove recklessly. there was also some reaction against "moonlighting"-a typical response stated: the job requires the utmost in alertness and this is  always the case with tired and exhausted men who work a full day at some other job. in connection with the issue of driver training. secretary brinegar indicated to me that the national highway traffic safety administrationnhtsa--"is currently developing curriculum materials for schoolbus driver training. these materials will be available to the states in early 1974. nhtsas next step in this emphasis area is to develop a supervisory program." there was also a stress on the use of seat belts by 4 percent of the respondents who felt that the use of such belts should be made mandatory on all school buses. typical comments were: i believe the school bus standards should be equal to any other vehicle standards in regard to the use of seat belts and our most valuable cargo travels without the use of safety belts. a smaller number3 percentstressed the need for supervision of children while traveling on schoolbuses. a former schoolbus driver pointed out. for instance. that "the danger lies in the misconduct of the students." a different view was taken by some of the 1.5 percent of the respondents who urged the use rather of protective padding and higher seat backs. it was pointed out. for example. that seat belts could be used as weapons in the hands of mischievous youngsters and that it would be difficult to install three sets of belts per seat. the matter of schoolbus construction standards. which includes padding. was given especial emphasis in the letter from transportation secretary brinegar who wrote that: the ice of proposed rulemaking on bus passenger seating and crash protection was issued in february 1973 and will apply to all school buses manufactured after september 1. 1974. the second recommended standard on the strength of structural joints of school buses is being processed within nhtsa. it is expected that the ice of proposed rulemaking pertaining to this subject will be released soon. aher 1 percent of survey respondents urged action with respect to overcrowding. and 1 percent offered other suggestions. including facing of seats to the rear. the installation of air bags and installation of an additional emergency exit on the bus roof.  all respondents4 percentwere in agreement with my efforts here for schoolbus safety. most of these objected to the proliferation of regulations and federal controls and to the additional tax burden. one respondent. for example. observed that statistics available do  warrant the increased costs that would be necessitated by changes in present practices. it is my intention to present the survey responses to the senate committee on commerce when i testify at its anticipated hearings on schoolbus safety this fall. as well as bringing the results of the survey to the attention of the appropriate committees in both houses of the new york state legislature. the new york state department of education. the new york state department of motor vehicles and school superintendents in the area of the survey as well as those new yorkers who responded to the survey. i ask unanimous consent to have secretary of transportation brinegars letter printed in the record.
