. what has been done here in these amendments is to express. in terms of what this partieular agency shall study as well as what it shall report. a particular point of view on international trade questions. all of these requirements are slanted that way. for example. i seriously doubt that it does us any good with respect to canada to have a specific stake in the bill. that such review of policies shall include but  be limited to the impact of the canadian automobile amendment ... i doubt that this is desirable. it does  add anything. it goes on to say: and role of any trading partner with which we have a substantial trade deficit. if i were running it. i would want to eliminate the reference to canada. so far as i k. and i am going on my own recollection. this is the only reference. by name. to any country in the whole bill. so that kind of thing permeates these statements. here is aher example to show why it troubles me. it speaks of such evaluations shall include but  be limited to the impact of international trade on the level. stability. and financial rewards for domestic labor and the impact of the transnational corporation on international trade flows. it carefully omits any impact of the transnational corporations either on international monetary affairs or on our balance of payments. yet we all k that if the transnational corporation is to be justified at all. it is goingto be justified on the basis of a major shift in the united states ecoy toward major returns from investments and dividends. to go on. aher section which relates to reports. and so forth. it says. preserving the existing diversified industrial base of the united states. well. i do  k whether that is the kind of slanting we want. to preserve the buggy whip business. which we would be doing if all we had since 1789 was to preserve existing diversified industrial bases in the united states. or whether it is meant to be taken as a kind of general prefatory statement. then we go on with what they require to review and it states: . . a review of the impact of international voluntary standards. the foreign investments of u.s. based transnational firms. and the level of foreign wage rates on the level. stability. and financial reward for domestic employment. again. we see exactly what this is being slanted for. the theory is that certain jobs are running away to foreign wage earners and it will take bread from the mouths of american workers. however. this is what we find. if my colleague from minnesota would like to take this. i am  going to stand in the way of it. i have explained it to the senate. i think we can work it out in conference. i am confident that we can. so that it coincides with the general thrust of the bill. i express my confidence by  standing in the way of the senators taking the amendments. i understand the last amendmentto wit. something about ice to the committee on finance of the senate and to the committee on ways and means. it has been accepted. so that it may be that the senator. perhaps. just wants to eliminate it. but i am willing to go along with the senator from minnesota.
