madam president. so that was a sweetener in order to make it more attractive for all parties involved. particularly the socalled do states. so you can see. this formula is complicated and there are a lot of factors involved. but to come  and try to change this carefully worked out formula breaks the agreement. you never have any kind of a formula. as the presiding officer ks from her experience in congress whether it is welfare or whether it is highway distributions or whether it is the environmental march 3.. 1993 protection agency distribution of -funds under the clean water act that is  contentious. matter what formula there is. it is fought out tooth and nail and then finally you arrive at a solution. and that arrival at a solution affects everything else in the bill. you would  have had a surface transportation bill unless we had agreed on a formula.  we are trying to change the cards that were dealt. i think it is inappropriate. this has hing to do with the small state allocation. so it does  affect me one way or the other. but i do believe it is unfortunate to come before this senate late at night and try to change a formula without everybody having their chance to be heard. oh. i am sure there will be charts presented. as there always are. at the desk when we vote. of who wins. who loses. most people go in and just look. they do  care about the substance of the bill. just do i win or do i lose. i think that is regrettable that we have gotten into this amendment at this time. i wish the senator would bring it up in the committee. let us have hearings. and if need be. fight it out once again. this is  the forum to do it. i thank the chair.
what we can do. . that as a result of this colloquy and the language in the senate appropriations committee report. that many minds will get to work on this problem and we shall  try to do anything until it is settled one way or the other and  by virtue of the much greater eloquence of the senator from west virginia. this is a big problem. it is a part of the modern life in which we find ourselves. and the complexities of that life. we are talking about dealing with poverty and the needs of urban areas. this is one of the greatest needs of the urban areas. the concentration of power which takes into consideration the use of the highways and roads and all other mechanisms for the purpose of improving the lot of the dwellers in those areas and making the cities again gracious. decent places in which to live. this is the nature of the issue as it affects the district and the country as a whole. i thank my colleague.
i do  consider it an evil to have an effective merchant marine for the united states. i do  consider it an evil to have effective agriculture. or effective housing. or a transportation system for the big cities. i would say to the senator with regard to transportation. it depends on whom you carry where. how fast. and how far. there is absolute cost of transportation. it might  be cutting a nickle to take a subway or a bus in new york city. in new york 20 cents may be too much. new yorkers think that it is. and they are right. new york is carrying other loads for the united states. including the greatest port. where the bulk of tourists are received. and where there is located banking. financing. and other things. there is immigration from the south of negroes which represents one of the most emous social. ecoical and welfare problems in the united states.
. i support the senator. and i shall vote for his substitute. so few of the afdc mothersand that is what it really comes down toare at work. from my own experience in one of the biggest centers of thatto wit. new york cityi deeply feel it is because of lack of incentive. the rearrangement which the senator has in mind. i believeand i agree with himwould reduce the disincentive to work that the committee bill contains and yet maintain its provisions for simplification of administration and tightening of abuses in the area of workrelated expenses. senator moynihans amendment would require states to put a cap on workrelated expenses between 15 and 25 percent of gross income. this would prevent abuse of the workexpense deduction i have been in this chamber for many years when the argument has been made about the afdc mothers who travel to work in goldplated cadillacs. aside from the administrative efficiency of a percentage. which is very greatand if there is any place where we should cut redtape. it is herethe thing that appeals to me is the fact that it can be an answer to the idea that people who are on welfare are riding to work and otherwise carrying on in some kind of luxurious style. i have heard more of that thrown at this program than anything else i k of. i think that the senator. by his provision. which is the administration provision. will help very materially in cleaning up that situation.
