. i would like to point out to my colleagues that the american legion is  urging congress to enact legislation and the gvernment to adopt a foreigntrade policy that will prevent injury to and liquidation of industries essential to the defense and the ecoic welfare of our country. since this is in accord with my thinking and with the assurance i have from my constituency that the present policy is definitely detrimental to certain segments of our industry. i was gratified to e that the national executive committee of the american legion assembled in regular meeting in indianapolis. ind.. from april 30 to may 2. 1958. had concurred with this opinion. i am submitting the resolution adopted by the committee as well as a letter from miles d. kennedy. the director of the committee. explaining the action. for insertion in the record:
. i would like to join in commendation of my good friend and neighbor. john a. burns. the delegate representing hawaii in our congress. he and i both came to congress in january of 1957. and were placed in offices across the hall from each other. almost immediately i developed a deep respect for him. and a close and lasting feeling of friendship. i have found him endowed with the qualities of greatness. he is dependable. ethical. genuine. genial. honest. and yet humble. he is serving his constituency in memorable fashion. their welfare is always uppermost in his mind and his efforts in their behalf are unceasing. despite the great distance. his office is always overflowing with constituents. he has to represent his people in both the senate and the house of representatives. his constituency of approximately 550.000 has other representation in washington. this is a situation he is hoping to correct in bringing about statehood for his territory. he has struggled long and hard in this direction and i think his efforts can best be described by the following quote of dr. peter fairfax meyer. national director of the national partisan campaign for alaskanhawaiian statehood: too much credit can be given hawaiis delegate john a. burns. a brilliant and profound strategist. with a remarkable breadth of conception and an almost uncanny faculty to discern and discriminate with the nicest accuracy. he is absolutely sincere. utterly unselfish. and his mind has the lucidity of a crystal prism in a flood of sunlight. he knew what he was doing when he planned the shrewd strategy of pressing heavily for alaska and thus pave the way for hawaii. i should hate to see that strategy frustrated by ballyhoo efforts of "also rans" to demand hawaiian statehood immediately. much as my group and mr. burns want hawaii in the union. the people of hawaii should be justly proud of the outstanding effort that delegate burns has put forth in the short time of 19 months in guiding hawaii toward its goal of obtaining statehood. he helped substantially in the program that gave statehood to alaska. conscious of what statehood would mean to the alaskans. and thus help to pave the way for his own people. we k that politics is a hard and grim game. but accusing delegate burns of balking statehood for hawaii is cruel indeed and directly opposite of what he accomplished. i have found delegate burns to be a devoted family man. he has a wife in a wheelchair for whom he cares tenderly. and three children of whom he can be justly proud. they are a credit to the fine example he has set for them and reflect the principles he so ardently espouses. hawaii can well be proud of the fine choice it made in sending delegate burns to represent it. i salute him and wish him many more years in this work for which he is so highly qualified.
. i rise to express my deep concern with the cut made by the appropriations committee of $61.9 million requested for additional provisions and equipment for fallout shelters. the fallout shelter program. which has been initiated and conducted by the office of civil defense in the department of defense. is a vital element in our overall defense effort. it is coming to be recognized as essential in the department of defense. the military operations subcommittee. of which i was a member in the previous congress. held extensive hearings on this vital matter. and reported to the house on the importance of the program. the funds which the committee has denied cover only a part of the necessary civil defense program but it is a part which has to go ahead on schedule. these funds are intended to cover the last quarter of the cost of the survey. marking. and stocking of fallout shelter spaces in existing structures across the nation. $175 million has been spent in fiscal year 1962 and fiscal year 1963 to identify this shelter space and to procure a large part of the necessary provisions and equipment. it is false ecoy to cut funds for an austere program which has been developed to use existing resources instead of major construction programs. i am informed that the denial of these funds is likely to throw off the schedule for stocking and activating shelter spaces by 9 months or more. it will upset or damage the cooperation with local governments which has been generated in this program. this fallout shelter program. as initiated and carried forward by the department of defense is a minimal step in providing protection for the american people. at least such a minimum must be provided for the population in a world where the possibility of nuclear war can arise so suddenly and threaten us all. i believe a cut in this program is false ecoy. i believe the program should go forward. if the congress has doubts. they should be resolved in favor of the american people.
 of the university. asa s. kles. architect. salsberg & le blanc. contractor. poleyabrams corp. theastern university gratefully ackledges the assistance of the hoable leverett saltonstall. u.s. senator from massachusetts. the hoable edward m. kennedy. u.s. senator from massachusetts. the hoable f. bradford morse. representative. fifth congressional district. and the u.s. department of health. education. and welfare in making possible the site for this suburban campus. 1964. theastern university gratefully ackledges the assistance of the town of burlington and the city of woburn in the development of this campus. 196365. selectmen. town of burlington. john m. kilmartin. charles l. shea. robert a. vigneau. and david m. ward. maud s. graham. town clerk. joseph 0. an. executive secretary. city of woburn. edward f. gill. mayor. the filene conference room. named in recognition of a generous gift from william filenes sons co.. 1965. this planting is a gift from the first class in womens continuing education programs. theastern university. 196465. this library given in memory of richard h. lufkin by the elizabeth a. lufkin trust.
. i think that this is a useful and constructive initiative. tribute for the design and drafting of this legislation must go to the distinguished lieutenant gover of massachusetts elliott richardson. who as a former official of the department of health. education. and welfare is intimately familiar with the problems and possibilities of federalstatelocal private cooperation in providing needed community services. under unanimous consent i include a summary and explanation of the bill in the record at this point:
. i am pleased and hoed to join today in expressing my appreciation and my best wishes to a good friend and colleague. ted kupferman. ted was elected to the house in february 1966. and has served since then with a record of distinguished and dedicated service. he has been a hardworking legislator in the years i have kn him. and i was privileged to be associated with him in a number of important projects such as calling for a full congressional investigation of the selective service system for its reform. and urging that the united states take the initiative in bringing the problem of south africa before the u.n. general assembly. he has been a conscientious member of the interior and insular affairs committee. acting to preserve and improve the natural wealth of our country and the welfare of its environs. and as a member of the veterans affairs committee. has kept the welfare of our nations veterans uppermost in mind and deed. coming to the house with a fine educational background and able experience in the legal profession and. public service. ted has filled his seat in the house with distinction and has won the deep friendship and longlasting respect of his colleagues. as the 90th congress comes to a close. ted will be returning to private law practice in his home state of new york. he will be sorely missed in his retirement from the house. but i k he will continue his work in the field of law with the same dedication. ability and enthusiasm that he brought to the congress. he has the best wishes of us all. i am sure. for a happy and successful future.
 nixon to appoint an able. toughminded administrator. elliot l. richardson. to succeed mr. finch. but mr. richardson brings more than the capabilities of the toughminded administrator to his new job. he brings. too. the kind of sensitivity. intelligence. resourcefulness. and lowkey determination that will be required in this demanding post. having served as assistant secretary of health. education. and welfare during the eisenhower years. and as acting secretary for several months in 1958. he is certainly stranger. either to the department or to the complexity of the very pressing problems with which it must deal. i am confident that he will do a charaoteristically outstanding job and i wish him well.
. i take the same position on this amendment at this time as i took in committee. recognizing again in this instance the validity of the criticism of the conditions which have obtained in some instances in connection with welfare funds. as outlined by the senator from ohio. nevertheless. since a great deal apparently is contingent upon the establishment of welfare funds. i feel that a certain amount of delay by congress is advisable before final action is taken. as the action about to be taken will be final. except for what may be done in conference. i recognize some violations of what we consider to be proper practices. i simply want to point out in that connection that the welfarefund program has grown very materially in recent years. i have a table here which shows that in 1945 approximately 600.000 workers in this country presumably were covered for benefits under that type of program. early this year there are indications that 1.250.000 are covered. the system is growing very rapidly. while we may believe we have a record of all welfare funds. i doubt very seriously whether there is such a record. i have  been able to obtain a complete record. i think that is something that needs thorough exploration. there is one thing i want to point out in connection with the matter of welfare funds. and that is that it has been a practice in the united states for the last few years to encourage the establishment of this type of fund. this is the one thing which exists as a result of joint operations between management and labor in which labor itselfthe employeesis overwhelmingly in accord. there was a survey made  long ago which is reported in the january 1947 issue of factory management magazine. in the whole field of the relationship between management and labor on the question of welfare funds. or anything of that type. at least threefourths of the employees who expressed an opinion favor such funds. that is one matter in labor relations on which the great bulk of the employees are overwhelmingly in accord. undoubtedly it comes about because in some instances insufficient protection is guaranteed them by management. and in other instances by government. as a result of that condition which has arisen there has been a constant effort to institute more and more of this kind of protection. it has come to be a very important feature in the relationship between management and labor. it has had a great deal to do with improvement in managementlabor relations. meritorious though the purpose of this proposal may beand i do  question its purpose for one momenti think it is very questionable in this connection. as it was in connection with the matter which was before us yesterday. whether we should undertake to proceed at this particular time in the way in which it is proposed in the present amendment. i want to point out that one of the specific functions. one of the specific mandates which have been given or will be given to the joint congressional committee to be created under the bill. if it should be enacted. is to go into the welfarefund problem. to explore the whole field. to ascertain the kind and type of fund that should exist. and to determine what kind of restrictive legal measures. if necessary. finally should be taken. perhaps the measure proposed here may be the proper one. i happened to observe at the hearings held last winter that there was serious objection on the part of some very large employers to having any part in the administration of welfare funds. that is understandable. they feel that such funds are for the benefit of the employees. their relationship is a happy one. and they would rather leave it that way. it seems to me that these matters should be explored far more thoroughly than they have been up to the present time.
in that connection let me point out that the umw is an organization with a membership of 400.000 and it is  surprising that it has a welfare fund of that size.  do i want it understood in any way. shape. or manner that i approve necessarily of the procedures which were followed prior to the establishment of the government control which  exists in that connection. the fact remains that the system ol welfare funds is  going to produce anything of an ultimately serious nature in the united states if we wait until the next session of the congress. when we should k a great deal more about it and when we should be able to act far more intelligently. in connection with the pending amendment. there are several matters which i think have  been discussed as thoroughly as they might have been. in fact. i think they have  even been pointed out. and one has debated then thus far. in the first place. i should like to point to subsection (b). on page 2. 1 wish to inquire whether that could be construed in any way as affecting christmas presents or birthday presents or anything of that type. the language is rather broad. and it appears to me to be vague certainly anything of a legitimate character should  be limited by such a provision.
i merely want to observe that that statement is the first indication i have had of a definite nature that the proponents actually admit that this seaway project will  be a selfliquidating proposition. the able senator from wisconsin. in the statement he -just made. indicated definitely that the probabilities are. on the basis of the estimates of the proponents themselves. that the project will  be selfliquidating. i want to point out here and . . that i am  interested in the dollar from the standpoint of other means of transportation. it has been intimated that i was worried also about the dollar welfare of the railroads. i am  one bit worried about that. if they all go into bankruptcy. so far as i am personally concerned it would  have any effect. i would feel sorry for them and for our ecoy. because the government would have to take them over. what i am worried about is the diversion of traffic dollars. but tons. that is what i am talking about. the senator spoke of the transportation of a boiler. he was interested in getting a boiler delivered at this time of the year. it bears out the thought that some of us have that this is the time of the year when the railroads have the most difficult time of all. and it is exactly this time of the year when. if there were any sizable amount of traffic diversion as the result of the use of the proposed canal. the additional burdens on the railroads would probably be so great that they could  handle the traffic. that is why i am worried about transportation.
. i should like  to break the continuity of my remarks. i thought i would save time by this process. i am a great believer in saving time if possible. s. 1686 empowers the secretary of the interior to settle with the indians of new york the obligations of the treaty of september 15. 1797. and the act of february 19. 1831. by a lumpsum payment in lieu of the present annual annuities. upon the condition that the indians agree to this method of settlement. i believe the federal government will more adequately carry out the spirit of the treaty by meeting its obligation in this manner than by its policy of distributing a small bit of cloth or a small sum of money to the individual members of the tribes. the terms of the treaty will  be violated. and at the same time the federal government will make a substantial payment to the tribes which can be used constructively for the welfare of all of the tribal members. the fourth bill. s. 1687. will afford to new york state indians more adequate resort to established courts for redress of wrongs. this has long been needed and. with the incorporation of the amendment proposed by the department of the interor. the bill provides a twofold benefit. first. tribal laws and customs will be codified and will prevail when reservation indians are involved in civil cases in the areas covered by the codified tribal law. second. the procedure for settling grievances between indians will be clearly delineated. this clarifying measure appears to be in the best interests of the three parties concerned: the indians. the state of new york. and the federal government. the pattern of indian relations with the state and federal governments is complex and tenuous. national legislation should be designed always to preserve for the indians the value and unique character of the indian culture and at the same time to further the good of all citizens. indians and indians alike. these four bills are aimed to advance and strengthen the position of the indian as an individual in our nation. i. therefore. longer object to the passage of the first bill. and urge favorable action upon each one of them.
i am in full accord with what the senator has to say about the reduction in overlapping agencies. and also in competing agencies. there are some conflicts. too. which should be eliminated. the state of new york has just undergone quite a streamlining in that connection. so far as the whole welfare field is concerned. in order to do exactly what the senator is indicating. however. in this particular instance it was my understanding that the function of the womens bureau was a function peculiar unto itself. and that there was  and actually is  any overlapping. am i correct in that statement.
the senator from new york further understands that insofar as the states themselves are concerned. state law can be changed by any act of the congress itself. or certainly by any administrative act. so far as the administrator is concerned. but here is the catch. is it  true that in spite of any state law. in spite of any plan which might have been previously formulated and agreed to on the part of the administering agency. a change in plan or in formula which might be established by the administering agency through action by the administering agency in withholding fundsi am  talking about administrative fundswould. in effect. have the result of forcing this. that. or the other state to change its statute if it were to be able to continue the unemployment insurance experience ratings.
in that connection. the senator from new york would like to point out to the senator from minnesota that he is  advocating the extension of unemployment insurance in the federal security agency because the agency does  believe in it. but he would like to ask the senator from minnesota if he ks of any instance in which the federal security agency. up to this time. has done anything to destroy any plan of unemploymentinsurance rating as established in a state.
. the senator from new york would like to point out that he appreciates what the distinguished senator from oregon has just said about him. i have always tried to vote on that particular committee and at all other times in accordance with what i believed to be for the best welfare of the united states. but let it be understood that the senator from new york at time has or will ever set himself up as the one who decides finally as to what is best for the united states of america but always with the feeling that the majority should have its way. the senator from oregon is apparently attempting to put himself between the two sides which are to be divided qually. to determine. himself. what is best for the united states of america. assuming -the two sides happen to be in disagreement. that is where i disagree with the senator from oregon.
. today. march 20. 1953. marks the beginning of jewish youth week in the united states. which has been so designated by the national jewish youth conference. the conference is a permanent. nationwide youth body representing more than 300 local councils and 11 national jewish youth organizations. and it is sponsored by the national jewish welfare board. the theme of jewish youth week this year is "jewish youtha vital force in the community." in this connection gov. thomas e. dewey has sent the conference a message commemorating the occasion. the text of which i ask to have printed in the body of the record at this point in my remarks.
. under the unanimousconsent agreement. i rise to pay tribute to a great american and a warm personal friend. the life of robert f. wagner should be an inspiration to every american. his loyalty to his friends and to the causes in which he believed was a virtue admired by all and for all to emulate. since his death there has been repeated frequently. by editorial and other form of eulogy. the story of the young boy who came to our shores as a poor immigrant. and from a condition of dire poverty. by sheer courage and ability. rose step by stepfirst in the attainment of a good education. then as a leader in civic and political life. through election successively to the new york state assembly. to the new york state senate. where he became the leader of his party. to the new york state supreme court. and finally to the united states senate. twice. in 1915 and 1938. he was elected as a delegate to the new york state constitutional conventions of those years. and in the latter instance he served as his partys leader throughout the convention. senator wagners record of legislative achievement in the field of legislation pertaining to health. education. labor. housing. and social welfare and security generally is without parallel in the history of the country. he has been called a pioneer and inator. rather than a perfectionist. in social legislation. but however one may term his extraordinary accomplishments. he was a true humanitarian. whether or  one may agree with all his methods of approach. one must applaud his high purpose and lofty objectives. senator wagner was fundamentally a party man. even as he was loyal to his friends. so he was equally loyal to his party. he contributed much to the development and advancement of his party throughout the long period of his public service. robert f. wagner was my senior when i first came to the senate. i have never been able adequately to express my deep appreciation for all he did for me during the early days of my service in the senate. he was kind. patient. helpful. generous. he proved himself to be a genuine friend. in his passing. the country has lost a truly great american. and all who were privileged to k him have lost a good and true friend. i extend deep sympathy to his son and to the other members of his family.
it is  to annce that a new drug is on the market. it is merely to bring the consistency. the contents. or whatever it may be called. in a drug. into line with the food and drug law regulations and practice. i shall read the explanation given by the committee itself in its report. the sole purpose of this bill is to substitute th6 generic term "chlortetracycline" for the name "aureomycin" in sections 502 (1) and 507 of the federal food. drug. and cosmetic act. aureomycin is one of the antibiotic drugs which have proved highly useful in the treatment of disease. when aureomycin was discovered in 1947. little was kn of its chemical structure. the drug firm which produced the new drug selected the name "aureomycin" because of the golden or yellowish color of the drug and its derivation from streptomyces. since that time additional studies have been made. and it is  agreed among chemists that the proper name of the drug. accurately describing the same. is "chlortetracycline." . the change in name is desirable because the food. drug. and cosmetic act should designate drugs by terms that are descriptive of their chemical structure rather than by fanciful or descriptive trade names. furthermore. the use of the manufacturers trade name as a general descriptive term deprives the manufacturer of an opportunity to have "aureomycin" registered as a trademark. the committee ks of opposition to this legislation which has been approved by the secretary of health. eductlon. and welfare and the bureau of the budget. as indicated in their respective reports.
. i rise to call attention to the seventh anniversary of the creation of the state of israel. which will take place tomorrow. the 14th of may. it is appropriate for this occasion to recall the gallant deeds. in the face of untold hardship and adversity. which brought to fruition the esr tablishment of this democratic nation. at the same time. i am proud to pay tribute to the great achievements of the people of israel during the past 7 years. it is indeed unfortunate that strife and struggle have  yet been eliminated in the middle east. an area so important to the future welfare of the free world. it devolves upon the united states to continue every effort. through the state department and through the united nations. to seek the establishment of a peaceful settlement between israel and her arab neighbors. on this anniversary. i am pleased to join in reaffirming the strong bonds of friendship between the united states and israel. and to express every belief in the future progress and accomplishment of the newest democracy in the middle east.
. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to extend the unemployment insurance compensation program to puerto rico. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the bill as well as a statement in explanation of the provisions contained therein be included in the body of the record following these remarks.
. has also been considering this important subject and has proposed legislation which is designed to provide for the full disclosure of the financial operations of welfare and pension funds established by employer or employee organizations or by both. the legislative recommendations of the department of labor are contained in the bill which the junior senator from colorado and myself are  introducing. both of us are pleased to introduce this legislation at the request of the department of labor. in order that the subcommittee may benefit from the study of the department in connection with welfare and pension plans. i k that these recommendations will be extremely helpful to the subcommittee on welfare and pension funds in the preparation of its own legislative recommendations. i ask unanimous consent that the bill. together with an explanation of it. prepared by me. be printed in the record.
s recommendation during the 83d congress. the subcommittee on welfare and pension funds of the senate committee on labor and public welfare was created. and for approximately 2 years engaged in a thorough study of welfare and pension funds with a view to the enactment of needed legislation. during the 83d congress. i had the ho and privilege of acting as the chairman of the subcommittee. in the 84th congress. under the able chairmanship of the senior senator from illis . the subcommittee completed its study and the legislative recommendations of the subcommittee were contained in a bill introduced by a majority of its members. including myself. unfortunately. the senate committee on labor and public welfare was unable to consider these important bills prior to the adjournment of the 84th congress. the bill we are introducing today contains the legislative recommendations of the department of labor. i k that the senate committee on labor and public welfare will benefit from the excellent work of the department of labor in connection with welfare and pension plans. i also have sponsored proposed legislation containing the recommendation of a majority of the former subcommittee on welfare and pension funds. which i understand has been reintroduced by the senior senator from illis . both of these bills are designed to provide for the full disclosure of the financial operations of welfare and pensi.1 funds established by employer or employee organizations. or by both. as a member of the senate committee on labor and public welfare. i strongly urge that early hearings be scheduled on this proposed legislation. so that prompt congressional action may be taken in this field of vital importance to many millions of americans. i ask unanimous consent that the bill may be printed in the record. together with an explanation of the bill.
. the man who wrote st. louis blues is dead. william christopher handy passed away last friday. at the age of 84 years. he was the son of emancipated slaves. born in a log cabin in alabama. he was often penniless. hungry. and cold. but w. c. handy rose to the heights. he brought a whole new dimension to american music. he set the pattern for hundreds of popular tunes. through him. his race made a rich contribution to the culture of america. the negroeshe once remarked wrylyinvented jazz. and the white folks made an industry out of it. aher remark better epitomizes his philosophy. when he was in his eighties. and was talking one day with a group of schoolchildren. he patted his trumpet. and said: life is something like this trumpet. if you dont put anything in it. you dont get anything out. w. c. handy put a great deal into his life. the world is richer for it. he rose from poverty to worldwide fame solely on the strength of his talent and determination. he was a great human being. mr. handy was a friend of mine. i mourn his passing.
 eisenhower in his state of the union message of that year. the first subcommittee. of which i had the ho to be chairman. was created in may of that year. and got underway in may. these subcommittees have investigated and studied extensively the need for federal legislation in this field. the purpose is to protect more adequately the equities of the millions of persons who rely everincreasingly on the benefits derived from pension and welfare plans for their futurc ecoic security. as i have said. it has been my ho to have served on all three of these subcommittees. i have been proud of the partisan attitude which has existed throughout the extensive work carried on by the members and staffs of the subcommittees.
the third recommendation of the committee is "legislation to insure union democracy." that is the recommendation to which the senator has referred. there are actually five recommendations. one recommendation is for "legislation to regulate and control pension. health. and welfare funds."
i should like to ask the senator a question. does he mean to tell us that a bill loaded down with a great many heteroges and irrelevant amendments would have a better chance of receiving attention in the house. and would be considered more favorably. than would a bill which is confined to the simple subject of pension and welfare funds. which is the bill before us.
. i rise to clear up a statement which i believe was inadvertently placed in the record earlier this evening. i think it was unintentional. one of the speakers made a statement to the effect that the legislative recommendations on pages 451. 452. and 432 of the select committees report were signed by members of the select committee. i am sure i am correct in making the statement that such a thing never occurred. i never signed any document of such a nature. the only action that was ever taken as a whole by the members of the committee. or by the committee itself. was the action taken on the five recommendations found on page 450. those recommendations are: 1. legislation to regulate and control pension. health. and welfare funds. that bill has already been passed by the senate. 2. legislation to regulate and control union funds. that legislation is taken care of in the bill before us. 3. legislation to insure union democracy. that calls for the secret ballot. and that provision is in the bill before us. 4. legislation to curb activities of middlemen in labormanagement disputes. that is in the bill before us. 5. legislation to. clarify the "mans land" in labormanagement relations. let me repeat that-"legislation to clarify the mans land in labormanagement relations." that is what the amendment offered by the distinguished senator from south dakota would do. the amendment which i had offered as a substitute for the watkins amendment earlier this aftern. and which was voted down. was finally approved by a voice vote in the senate. but that is what that amendment would do. so i think i can safely say that all the basic recommendations made by the select committee have been carried out in the proposed legislation  before us as it stands.
am i correct in assuming that section 1. subsection (b). where specific reference is made to "or for other bona fide fringe benefits." means the prevailing fringe benefits in the area. and particularly in westchester county. would include such matters as an educational fund. a welfare fund. a pension fund. vacation fund. travel fund. or annuities fund. that i believe are mally considered to be prevailing fringe benefits in westchester county.
i thank the gentleman. i think it is the spirit of this house that on major legislation members of both parties can find it in their hearts. and on the basis of need and sound information to work together in the national interest. i believe the second point which should be made in regard to this legislationthat has been made clearly on our side of the aisleis that the program is only 9 months old. the appropriation was  signed until october 7. 1964. the first job corps did  start until ember 11 and the first community action program did  start until ember 24. hence. it is early to make any hard and fast judgments--prior to the programs first birthday. third. it seems to me there are a number of programs that are creative and based on sound principles. there is much hope in the country in regard to "headstart" which already involves some 556.857 children in 13.345 centers. i believe there has been serious criticism of the workstudy program. making it possible for many students to stay in college. during the past spring some 34.000 students were assistea in 648 institutions. and 40.500 students from 755 institutions are participating in the workstudy program in summer school. i believe the domestic volunteers in service to america (vista) is some indication it will be as worthwhile as the overseas peace corps. it is clear there are areas where there are proper criticisms. some criticism can be directed at the speed of the program. perhaps at the administration. although i am frank to say sargent shriver is one of the most able administrators in the u.s. government. he should be supported. i will say also. as i have said before. it is difficult for any man to wear two hats in as important a program as this is. if i may. i would like to mention briefly my limited experience with the programs in westchester county. as many of the members k. in westchester we have some aspects of serious poverty amid affluence. while we have a median family income of over $8.000. and an average of well over 12 years of education among heads of families. it is very clear that we also have poverty. in 1960. the westchester council of social agencies found that 1 in 12 families were living in "abject poverty." that is. making less than $3.000 a year. but this agency felt. and i agree. that this ratio did  wholly reflect the true dimensions. a more realistic figure would perhaps be $5.000. if that is the criteria that is used. one in five families in westchester county are "deprived." poverty does  respect geography. indeed. affluence can make human suffering and the disparity all the more poignant and its identification less likely as it is unexpected. in westchester county i would say programs that have started in white plains and in new rochelle and other parts of the county show some real promise. the white plains community action program has started a special summer program for elementary schoolchildren. about 115 deprived youngsters will benefit from tutoring and language skill training through this program. some 200 parents are being counseled on how to help the children at home. in new rochelle there are the beginnings of a worthwhile neighborhood youth corps which would help some 88 financially impoverished youths aged 16 through 21. a tutoring program for children from the 1st to the 12th grades. a preschool program for 200 children from 3 y2 to 4 1/2 years old. there is a community program which will provide intensive social servicesincluding legal aid. home management. budgeting. and family counselingfor some 400 cx1107 residents of three lowrent housing projects. the program here in a sense is  only trying to identify the problem of those living outside of the mainstreams of the community. but to try to create a measure of hope for those who may be in poor health and illiterate or undereducated. therefore. i think in westchester county there is  only need for the program but it is well launched. i would submit the responsibility of this house is to improve legislation and to make such changes in it as are indicated. i intend to offer an amendment in this regard. but i believe strongly. and i think it would be a great mistake for this house either to seriously cut the program or to throw the baby out with the bath water. this program is in its beginnings. we have  had egh time to seriously judge it. we can question its rate of progress and its administrationbut that it is backed by some basic principles with some very dedicated people throughout the united states. i think is clear. so i. for one. am sure that other members will approach it in a constructive spirit doing what we can to further a program that is basic. if we are to break out of a cycle of hopelessness. to give all americans a chance to maximize their potential and to live the kind of life in human dignity and in hope that this great country offers and that should be a reality for all.
. the poor in westchester county have just as much need for assistance as the poor anywhere else. if anything. poverty amid affluence emphasizes the serious consequences of an inadequate education. it is essential that we reach and help these children.
. i rise in support of house resolution 966 and i urge its prompt adoption. the subject before us today is poverty.  alone the poverty that afflicts 30 million americans in our apparently affluent nation but as well the poverty that afflicts this house. for in recent weeks i have heard members of this body speak words that reflect the poverty of our commitment. the emptiness of our promise to the ghetto dwellers. to the rural poor. principally to the young people of this nation. some have protested the cost. others have proclaimed its ineffectiveness. but the question is  whether the poverty program has failed us. but rather whether we have failed it. e would say the bill is perfect. e would argue that there should  be amendmentscertainly  i. but this house. i believe. will gravely misread the country if we fail to raise our sights to meet the expectations of the american people.
. to repeat. i believe that this house will gravely misread the country if we fail to raise our sights to meet the expectations of the american people. just as the american people abhor crime and violence so do they reject facile and simplistic answers to problems that clearly cry out for difficult and complex solutions which indeed may  easily be obtained. let us recognize the $2.06 billion authorizatoin in this bill for what it is. less than what we spend in vietnam in 1 month and  nearly egh. even under present ecoic conditions. to do what is essential for those americans still living in poverty out of fear of violence and riots but because it is rightand long overdue. it is clear that many americans have  had the opportunities that our democracy and our national purpose. and the commitment they imply. in fact guarantee. if in the days ahead we emasculate this program. if we renege on our pledge. if we cut the heart of creativity out of this endeavor in the name of efficiency or political pragmatism. then we will have borne witness  to our courage. conviction. and principles but. rather. to the poverty of this body. our national purpose is  to enshrine the status quo but to forge a new life for all americansand in this generation. certainly i. for one. believe that we need to strengthen the job orientation of this program. there is question. in my judgment. but what this house must stand back of the model cities and education and other programs that are as basic to our cities as is the legislation we are about to consider. i would remind this house that the city of new york. as an example. needs at the very minimum $50 billion in the next 10 years to address itself to the basic needs of its population. so i deeply hope that the sights of this body will be raised and that we will  dash the hopes of those who have little to live on but faith. i think it is within our power to write a bill that will improve this program and thereby their lives. that will meet the problems of education and housing and job training and. i hope. that will make real the promise of america and the commitment of our nation to all.
. i rise to try to make clear that there are some members on our side of the aisle and. indeed. a number of mayors across the country of both parties. who support full funding for this program. indeed. there are some who feel the existing amount as reported by the committee. $2.060.000.000. is largely inadequate. if  totally inadequate. i think one could debate here today provisions in both the goodellquie substitute and in the committee billand i have been one of those who have said there are some good things in the goodellquie substitute. such as the data bank and the greater emphasis on job orientationbut the point that i think is before the house very simply and very sharply is this: we have made a commitment  in three congresses to the american people. we have made a commitment that we can. in my opinion. ho if we cut onethird or onehalf of the funds that will be available. there is way that we can do the job that we must to help some 30 million americans gain necessary skills. help the job corps. help the neighborhood youth corps. continue and expand community action and its national emphasis programs. and do it by cutting $500 or $600 or $700 million from the authorization. i would urge in the strongest terms that we debate as thoughtfully as we can the merits of the bill. improve it if we can. but let us  try to cut the basic funding. the bill is already meager in certain areas. and it is absolutely necessary. in my judgment. that if the poverty of this house and its commitment is  to be made manifest for all to see. we must support full funding and make it as effective as possible in order to uphold our commitment.
. the report of the citizens board of inquiry into hunger and malnutrition in the united states is a shocking indictment of this nation. the fact that more than 10 million americans are starving or underrished is the fault of congress for failing to revise the basic concept of a 30yearold food distribution program. the fault of the executive for failing to realize and remedy the inadequacyof the administration of these programs by the department of agriculture. and the fault of those local governments which have been blind to the food needs of their citizens. calling the surplus food program a "failure" and the food stamp program a "nightmare for the hungry." the board points out that these programs reach only 18 percent of the poorand these are  even the most helpless members of society. in addition. participation in government food programs has declined by 1.4 million in the last 6 years. although malnutrition has risen sharply in the last decade. the difficulties with present food programs stem from the fact that food distribution has grown out of the need to dispose of surplus agricultural commodities and is thereby directed more at relieving the farmer than at feeding the hungry. the report charges that the inadequacies of the programs can be attributed to "the mode of administration adopted. the discretionary decisions made. and the failure to use the full statutory power available to fulfill the purpose of these programs." yet assigning the blame and pinpointing the deficiencies does hing to put food in the stomachs of those americans who are starving amid our affluence. the crucial need  is for strong and immediate action. by executive declaration. to institute emergency food programs in those areas identified by the board as most distressed. following this relief. other steps must be taken to shift responsibility for food programs. and to structure new programs that are specifically aimed at feeding the hungry and that make food available really free of charge and free of redtape and accessible to even the most remotely located hamlet. perhaps this report by a group of private citizens is the catalyst needed to awaken the conscience of this nation to the fact that there are starving americans in our midst. and that it is our responsibility to see that lives are  lost and minds and bodies  stunted because of a lack of food. i share the anger and the concern expressed by the board and by the new york times in a recent editorial which i am inserting in the record at this point:
that is my understanding. i would say to the gentleman from wisconsin. further. there are funds explicitly earmarked for local communities to participate. the third difference between this bill and the one passed by the house is that the legislation before us provides that the secretary of health. education. and welfare submit legislative recommendations following the white house conference. the original house bill had placed this responsibility with the commissioner on aging. . if the gentleman from iowa would like to enter into this colloquy
i thank the gentleman. the point. very simply. is that the state could disapprove a portion of a plan. of any community action plan. the cities. for example. might have recourse when there was a fundamental difference with the state or the state legislature. so the question. i believe. is the issue of federal versus state control. of federal ination versus. in some instances. state incompetence. lack of commitment or indifference. i believe the substitute could go a long way toward destroying local control. i would point out to the members that the league of cities of the united states has sent a very strong telegram in opposition to this substitute and points out that they are "categorically opposed to the channeling of oeo programs through state governments." for these reasons. i would urge strong support for a continuation of the bill in its present form. there are other compelling reasons for defeat of the substitute as well. the purpose of oeo is to encourage ination and the development of initiative. oeo exists to attack problems that are  being solved by established federal agencies or by state governments. surely turning the program over to the states and their attendant courthouse bureaucracies is subverting that purpose. oeo director rumsfeld called the first substitute "a bureaucratic mess" and said that it "iges the special relationship" between the federal gov.ernment and the constituent groups of americas poor. the black poor in the south and ghetto dwellers in the urban th do  enjoy .the most amicable of relations with state capitals.  do they possess the political influence that regretably will be necessary to insure that they get a fair share under a state plan. quite simply. a state plan will. in most cases. shortchange the cities where most of the poverty exists. the oeo director may fund an application disapproved by a state office only if he finds that "approval of such application would strengthen the overall program plan of a local community action agency. or with respect to applications submitted by other eligible applicants. that the approval of such application would be in furtherance of the purposes of this act." this really gives the director very little power to protect the interests of localities. especially since if he does make a positive funding under this section. the state could take the matter to the u.s. circuit court of appeals. the language of section 251(c) (1) does  provide the director with a state bypass mechanism that will effectively protect the interests of cities shortchanged by states. a case in point is the bedfordstuyvesant restoration corp. in brooklyn. founded in 1967 by the late senator robert f. kennedy to develop the 600squareblock bedstuy area. of some 450.000 residents. into a viable ecoic community. twothirds of bedstuys budget comes from title 1d. special impact funds. an application is pending for $13 million more over the next 2 years. it is highly unlikely at best that a state plan would or even could continue to provide this successful and inative program with the level of support it  enjoys. a vital and important partnership between established business and financial interests and one of the most depressed ghetto communities in america may well have to come to a tragic halt. s request for a 2year extension without crippling amendments or opposing his position and that of the oeo director. mr. rumsfeld. it is a question of the federalists versus the antifederalists. the issue is between those who believe that the elimination of poverty in america yet requires a strong federal role and those who are content to leave it entirely to each of the states. some of whom have shown a massive and tragic record of indifference. incompetence. and lack of commitment to abolish hunger and poverty.
. i compliment the gentleman from california . the gentleman from massachusetts . and the gentleman from michigan for their eloquent statements. it seems to me that it is about time that the congress give the department of health. education. and welfare full authority to withhold money in order to enforce desegregation. and it is about time that the administration use the full force of its moral and political power to back up such actions by the department of health. education. and welfare. this house. if it is to ho its heritage. if it is to have relevancy to the future. must support the amendment and must do so in order to uphold the integrity of the house and the integrity of the american dream.
. let me say that this is one of the few programs that has really been tested in the field. there have been over 30 different research and development grants across the country testing the feasibility of developing. and evaluating a system for the delivery of meals. we are faced in this country with the fact that about a quarter of all our senior citizens. that is at least 4 million. live below the poverty line. beyond this. there are many who do  fall below the poverty line. but are  ambulatory. i believe it is the intention of the white house to proceed with some vigor in this program to try and reach the basic problem of nutrition. and also the prevention of serious disability which may come from poor nutrition.
i should like to ask a question about part d. social services regulations. social services regulations postponed. first. it is my understanding that this amendment contains a prohibition for 6 months. to put it aher way. there is a postponement by the secretary of health. education. and welfare of those regulations permitted earlier this year for 6 months.
might i ask him whether the renegotiation act is going to have the provisions that were in the conglomerate amendment last night relative to social services and a prohibition on new social service regulations for a 6month period.
 would the chairman of the committee be willing to answer a question on the social service regulations. it is my understanding that the proposal  before the house in effect includes a description of prohibition against the new regulation going into effect for up to 4 months. and any new regulations that might be proposed by hew would be subject to the standards eligibility and service requirements described by the two committees mentioned. is that correct.
. as one who has been concerned with pollution problems. air. water. and se. and expressed concern in this body from time to time with suggestions for ameliorating these assaults on our environment. i recently wrote to the secretary of health. education. and welfare to ask that standards be set under the authority of the motor vehicle pollution control act of 1965 to regulate the emission of pollutants from diesel engines of buses and trucks comparable to those standards which presently exist for the manufacture of new cars. i am pleased to e that the officials at the department of health. education. and welfare share my concern and are working on the problem. while  as speedily as one may have hoped. they inform me that they are proceeding diligently. there follows a copy of my letter of august 31 and the reply from under secretary wilbur j. cohen of september 20. 1966:
i would hope that all senators. obviously. would give heed. read their mail. and understand the views of their constituents. but i think we have an obligation to go further. that is. to study these issues in considerable depth. to recognize the views of our military leaders. those who are actively on the job. to give consideration to the thoughts of those who are in positions of responsibility regarding our foreign policy. our secretary of state and others. to give consideration to what this holds for the future just this year or next year. but also. what are the alternatives: what is going to happen in the event that the treaties are  approved. i do  think we should be subject to blackmail. or anything. that there are possibilities of turbulence. but. obviously. all of these things have to go into our equation. based on these. we have to make our judgment. frequentlyi am sure the senator found this. when he was gover. i can believe that there were  occasions. and here he was dealing solely with a state issue principallyi suppose it came up in budgetary matterswhere he had to take a position that was extremely unpopular. that the bulk of the people in his state were opposed to a position he took. i had a similar situation dealing with a state income tax. overwhelmingly. the people in our state were against it. as a matter of fact. i got voted out of office because of it. but it was a thing that had to be done. subsequently. it was done. to preserve the financial integrity of our state. so we can respond solely to the whims of the constituents. because their views change. and we come here with a considerable responsibility to think. it seems to me.  just of  but of the long range and the future. particularly as it involves the welfare of our nation. i think senator byrd. the majority leader. put this rather well in his opening comments when he said that a senator is meant to reach a judgment  simply on the basis of mail count. if that were so. we could have a computer or we could have some organized pollster setup. and that is all we would need. then he gave that really. i think. magnificent quote from edmund burke. where burke said: your representative owes you  only his industry but also his judgment. and he betrays rather than serves you if he sacrifices it to your opinion. as we consider these treaties. i hope that. in looking at the world and americas role in it. we will act with confidence and with a vision to the future. we are a great nation. there is doubt about that. we are a great nation because we are strong egh to do what we feel is right because it is right. like an adolescent youth. because we think we have to prove our might. we are a great nation because we are confident egh to exert leadership and adjust in a growing world rather than cringe at the prospect of change and seek the reassuring shelter of bygone eras. we are a great nation because we have the vision to look ahead and chart our course toward longterm stability of our best interests. because we realize that efforts in partnership are more secure than confrontations out of frustration. . we are a great nation because we seek to have our governments decisions. in the words of theodore rooseveltthe builder of the canal-"laid on the foundations of righteousness and of decency." so. let us use those as our guidelines as we vote in these treaties and show what a great nation we are.
those who oppose the amendment propose to close the building in and leave it there until this country is able to finance the many. many things we wish to finance. including this building. we have before the senate motions to cut food stamp programs. it just does  seem to us to be the appropriate time to go ahead with a building such as this.
. i wish to direct a couple of questions. if i might. to the distinguished senator from th carolina. the food stamp program is an entitlement program and the entitlement program. as i understand it. is based on the eligibility criteria that is set forth. by putting a cap on a program. as i understand it. just means that that is the extent of the money that can be spent. and when that money runs out. be it in april. or may. or whenever. it is those who are eligible under our criteria who can collect. in other words. it seems to me if there is a cry to tighten up in this program the way to proceed is to tighten up on the eligibility criteria.  on the amount that is provided which sets an artificial cap. the senator may correct me if i am wrong. but as i recall we went through this last year or this past summer. we had a cap. and those eligible came in and collected their food stamps. then the c~p is reached. and we have to provide for those in the remaining months. and we have to add some to it. so i can see that this is the correct way to proceed.
. work training and placement programs are viewed as an increasingly important component of our nations welfare system. over the past few years. states and localities have tested a number of alternative approaches to finding work for welfare recipients: job search. community work experience programs. wdrk incentive [win] demonstrations. and support work programssometimes called grant diversion and work supplementation. the legislation i am introducing today will build on the experiences of states. private organizations. and researchers to create a single comprehensive employment strategy that could be applied to the diverse individuals and families who must for a time rely on public assistance. in particular. this legislation will offer optimism in place of pessimism to teenage mothers and longterm afdc recipients to end welfare dependency. briefly. the legislation would: create two special employment programs for welfare recipients: a project redirection program for young teenage mothers without a high school education. and a supported work or grant diversion program for longterm adult welfare recipients and otherwise hardtoplace workers. replace the exising work incentive [win] program and win demonstrations with a more flexible pool of funds that could be used for initial screening. coordination of services. and inative employment strategies.
. rhode island is one of the states which has a win program. last year. the rhode island program assisted 1.800 individuals to find fulltime permanent employment. currently. the state is in the process of redesigning its win program. the new win program will offer an inative network of employment and training opportunities to welfare recipients in rhode island. the state projects that this new design of the program will better enable it to serve the approximately 8.000 individuals eligible for services. this program is one of the few programs which actually does reduce welfare dependency. it provides a wide variety of services specifically designed to help welfare recipients break out of the welfare dependency cycle. in a time when there is such a focus on the problem of welfare dependency. it seems counterproductive to eliminate one of the few federal programs which specifically addresses this problem. i urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important program.
. work training and placement programs are viewed as an increasingly important component of our nations welfare system. over the past few years. states and localities have tested a number of alternative approaches to finding work for welfare recipients: job search. community work experience programs. wdrk incentive [win] demonstrations. and support work programssometimes called grant diversion and work supplementation. the legislation i am introducing today will build on the experiences of states. private organizations. and researchers to create a single comprehensive employment strategy that could be applied to the diverse individuals and families who must for a time rely on public assistance. in particular. this legislation will offer optimism in place of pessimism to teenage mothers and longterm afdc recipients to end welfare dependency. briefly. the legislation would: create two special employment programs for welfare recipients: a project redirection program for young teenage mothers without a high school education. and a supported work or grant diversion program for longterm adult welfare recipients and otherwise hardtoplace workers. replace the exising work incentive [win] program and win demonstrations with a more flexible pool of funds that could be used for initial screening. coordination of services. and inative employment strategies.
. rhode island is one of the states which has a win program. last year. the rhode island program assisted 1.800 individuals to find fulltime permanent employment. currently. the state is in the process of redesigning its win program. the new win program will offer an inative network of employment and training opportunities to welfare recipients in rhode island. the state projects that this new design of the program will better enable it to serve the approximately 8.000 individuals eligible for services. this program is one of the few programs which actually does reduce welfare dependency. it provides a wide variety of services specifically designed to help welfare recipients break out of the welfare dependency cycle. in a time when there is such a focus on the problem of welfare dependency. it seems counterproductive to eliminate one of the few federal programs which specifically addresses this problem. i urge my colleagues to join me in supporting this important program.
. this proposal is an im- issues. it is  recognized by liberals portant first step in building a strong and conservatives alike that the curand secure safety net for all our citi- rent system is outdated and does  zens. it does a good job in proposing respond to the needs that exist. aid to what we need to do.  we should families with dependent children. look to the second and third steps in the largest welfare program in the determining how the federal govern- united states. was developed in the ment finances its increased role in pro- 1930s as a temporary program to viding a more secure safety net and assist women who had lost their husbegin sorting out and returning to bands. it was developed at a time state and local governments programs when women were  expected to which they can operate more efficient- work and when single parent families ly and effectively. were the exception.  the rule. our the legislation i introduced earlier society has changed a great deal in the this year. s. 862the partnership act last 50 years. but the afdc program of 1987. offers such a concept. a more . has remained essentially the same. secure safety net program can be the system  permits the expanachieved by gradually terminating fed-. sion of a growing single parent culture by  encouraging family formation and by rewarding young women who have children without demanding responsibility from either of the young parents. it is a system that pays people for doing hing and one that provided -incentives for them to get off of the welfare rolls. when an individual decides to work. the government drastically and immediately reduces the persons assistance payment. it  makes more sense ecoically for a welfare recipient to continue receiving government payments than to accept a lowpaying job that may  provide health insurance. this system allows complacency and erodes the hopes and aspirations of children in welfare families. it does  encourage the values we cherish in this society. most people would also agree that changing demographics and ecoics means that we can longer tolerate a system that does  help those on welfare gain the skills and attitudes necessary to move into the work force. the changing ecoy suggests that between  and the year 2000. jobs will decline in manufacturing. mining. and other industries. all areas that. in the past. have allowed selfsufficiency for the unskilled. at the same time. demographic projections indicate a national labor shortage by the year 2000. in my own state of missouri. 10year growth rates in the labor supply are expected to fall to 13 percent during the 1980s and to 9 percent during the 1990s. most of the available jobs will require the mastery of reading. writing. and computation skills. we simply can afford a system of welfare that does  encourage people to prepare themselves to enter a work force where they will be needed. this piece of legislation that we are introducing today would build on this consensus by shifting the welfare system from a simple payment system to one of mutual obligation. where recipients are expected to move off of the rolls into work. it would ensure that the system encourages parental support of children. rather than presenting obstacles to independence and trapping people in a web of longterm dependency. this proposal ensures that society is first looking to parents to provide for their children. it makes collections of child support payments more routine by requiring states to develop childsupport guidelines that would in most cases be binding on judges and by requiring employers to withhold automatically child support payments from paychecks. these provisions are intended to take the payments of child support awards out of the courts and make supporting ones child as natural for absent parents as it is for those who are living with their children. the bill would require states to make a greater effort to establish childrens paternity. states would be forced to meet new performance standards or face a reduction in their federal funding. in order to help states meet these new standards. the federal government would pay 90 percent of the costs of laboratory tests performed to establish paternity. while young fathers may  initially be able to provide financial help to their children. they should be expected to help support them in the event that they do become financially able. missouris state government supports these child support enforcement provisions. in fact. it feels that the paternity establishment provisions may. in fact. be too lenient. missouri continues to make a deep commitment to improving their child -support enforcement program. an effort that should be highly commended. if a family is forced to turn to welfare. this legislation insists that it be * used as a temporary support system to help put people back into the work force. for the first time. every state would be required to develop and implement some type of program to place welfare recipients in work. training programs. or education. depending on the availability of child care. all parents with children age 3 or over would be required to participate in the state programs. however. states would have the flexibility to exempt people if it did  make sense to mandate every recipients participation. for the first time. these programs would target longterm welfare dependents rather than encourage states to spend money on welfare recipients who do  need help moving off the rolls. again. i would like to point to the leadership that the state of missouri has displayed in this area. gover ashcroft. in his state of the state address this january. annced an aggressive and creative plan to move longterm dependents off of the afdc program. the focus of his proposal is on education as the critical link for moving people off of welfare. it is this commitment to productivity that we are hoping to encourage through the bill we are introducing today. our bill would also make moving off the welfare rolls less punitive. it would provide transitional medicaid and child care benefits for those leaving the afdc program so that finding a job would  mean a dramatic and immediate loss of health insurance and child care. these provisions add additional encouragement to welfare recipients to end their welfare payments and enter the work force. finally. this bill would correct the antifamily bias which presently exists in our welfare system. by mandating welfare coverage for families irrespective of the presence of two parents. the bill reduces the incentive for poor families either to separate or to engage in legal deception. most importantly. this bill does  try to "solve the welfare problem." it builds on what we have learned and recognizes that there is still a great deal that we do  k. rather than discarding the system or making numerous requirements for the states. it makes incremental changes and encourages experimentation. it is our hope that each state will be creative and develop its own system for moving people off of the welfare rolls. the family security act of 1987 takes one step in the right direction. it is a modest proposal that should  create false hopes for a "solution. however. if passed. it would enable a fundamental shift in our welfare system and would begin to encourage the values that we cherish in this country. i urge my colleagues to look closely at this proposal as it is well worth each senators attention.
and about adoption. i mean what we are really stressing here is a point of compassion. if i might say. treating lowincome women with complete fairness. treating them the same as we would some woman who could afford the services. also there is a tremendous cost to this program in the fact that young women are . to a great egh degree. receiving proper counseling on birth control measures. which of course. is part of the legislation. here is an ap story that came out yesterday that i saw in the local paper. "welfare cost for families headed by teens surpassed $21.5 billion last year." for those who are unsympathetic to this program. but are worried about the national deficit. this $21.5 billion primarily is paid by the federal government through medicaid. through afdc. through a whole series of other programs. it further goes on to say. "the federal government spent more than $21.5 billion last year on welfare programs for families started by teenagers. " * 0 the amount is $1.7 billion higher than." for the year before. . i ask unanimous consent that this article be printed in the record.
i will go through the questions which have been raised by these guidelines one by one. first. we get into the questions of counseling. will health care professionals who are  physiciansand we have to distinguish here. . forty percent of young. nevermarried mothers who enter the afdc program spend 10 or more years on afdc40 percent of these young. -nevermarried mothers. so there is surer prescription for poverty than to be an unmarried teenage mother. fortysix percent of single mothers with children live below the poverty level. for married couples with children this figure is only 7 percent. scholars and demographers call this trend. this fact that 46 percent of single mothers with children live below the poverty line. they call this the "feminization of poverty." i call it a national tragedy. we hear- these statistics so often that sometimes they become hollow. but the fact is there is something we can do to prevent all this. one major step we can take is to increase access to family planning so men and women can put off having children. should they so desire. until they are in a situation where they can support that child emotionally and financially. the title x program is the only federally supported program which supports family planning. one would think with such alarming statistics on teen pregnancy and poverty we would be doing all we could to support this title x program. instead. the money for these programs is diminishing.
. i. think this legislation is a fair and balanced approach. it ackledges and corrects. abuses in the system while reinforcing- the purpose of theprogram: to enable children with disabilities to remainat home or in aher appropriate and costeffective setting and to cover. the additionalcosts of caring for and raising- such a child. who. is. this money serving. children like juan. a 9yearold youngster in my home state of rhode island. juan ha been on ssi since birth. confined to a wheelchair and dependent on medical techogy to survive.: without the cash assistance he receives under ssi. juans mother would be forced to put him into a residential facility at a cost of almost $200.000 per year. compare this to the maximum si benefit of $438 a month.. it seems to me that we are getting a pretty good deal. andthat families- like juans deserve every nickel they- get. the finance committee will be taking up this issue in thecoming weeks as part of welfare reform. many of my colleagues are familiar with the provision in the housepassed welfare reform bill which would eliminate cash assistance for all children unless they would be otherwise institutionalized. in my view. this should be rejected. i sincerely hope that my colleagues. on the finance committee will consider the legislation we are introducing today as an alternative which provides effective reforms without removing disabled children from the rolls who are truly in need.
i want to join with the senator from new york. those were very thoughtful remarks by the senator from louisiana. i hope we can get a bill out of this senate that will really make some real progress in welfare reform. so i think the senator from louisiana has made a constructive contribution. i express my appreciation to him.
. i ask unanimous consent that when the senate completes its business today. it stand in recess until the hour of 9 a.m. on tuesday. september 12. 1995. that following the prayer. the journal of proceedings be deemed approved to date. the time for the two leaders be reserved for their use later in the day. and the senate immediately resume consideration of h.r. 4. the welfare reform bill. i ask further unanimous consent that the senate recess between the hours of 12:30 and 2:15 for the weekly policy conferences to meet.
. for the information of all senators. the senate will resume consideration of the welfare reform bill tomorrow morning. under a previous consent agreement. there will be a rollcall vote at approximately 9:10 tomorrow morning on or in relation to the conrad amendment. following that vote and a 4minute debate. there will be a rollcall vote on or in relation to the feinstein amendment. all senators can therefore expect two rollcall votes early tomorrow morning. following those votes. the senate will begin debate on the breaux amendment on maintenance of effort. with a vote to occur on that amendment at 2:15. senators are also reminded that a cloture motion was filed this evening but in accordance with the consent agreement reached on friday. that cloture vote will  occur prior to 6 p.m. this forthcoming wednesday.
. i want to express my support for the measure before us today. we have been working on this for many months. i am pleased we are finally able to approve a bill with bipartisan support. this bill is very conscious of the needs of children. a group i strongly believe should be cared for in any welfare program. the measure before us contains additional money for child care and requires states to continue to maintain their financial effort for the life of the bill. for the 5 years. senators breaux and dodd were very helpful in those issues. under this measure. states would also be prohibited from denying benefits to single custodial parents with young children who do  work because the parents do  have child care. this provision is extremely important for the protection of these very young children. the last thing we want to have happen is for parents to be placed in the untenable position of having to choose between leaving their children unsupervised while they work or losing their entire cash benefit. i would like to e that s. .1120. the bill before us. does  make any changes in the foster care and adoption assistance programs. it has long been my belief that the federal entitlement for these programs should continue and we should  roll back the federal protection parts of the foster care and adoption assistance. those entitlements are continued in this legislation. on the subject of childrens ssi. the senate bill retains the concept of cash assistance for poor. disabled children and does  go as far as the house in scaling back eligibility. i am pleased that the senate chose to take a more balanced approach to this issue than the house. most of the children in this program are severely disabled. were it  for. ssi. they would  be able to remain at home with their families. i would like to thank senator domenici for his contribution to this bill in two areasparticularly in providing for the maintenance of the effort by the states. senator domenci led that effort. i also thank him for his help in removing the mandatory family cap. under the domenici approach. which we adopted. the family cap remains an option for the states. there is evidence that denying benefits to women who have additional children while on welfare has any impact on birth rates. senator domenici spoke forcefully on that. . finally. i praise our majority leader. senator dole. but for his extraordinary efforts to find a common ground. we would  be here today. that is easy feat. given our differences when we started out. i thank him for his able leadership and the fact that we were able to achieve a bipartisan bill. today.
. i am pleased to be joined in this amendment by senators conrad and frist. the reconciliation bill says states must -cover the disabled but does  define who is disabled. this amendment adopts. the same definition of "disabled" as we used in the welfare bill which we passed-
well. i will start. this amendment adopts the same definition of "disabled" as we used in the welfare bill which we passed 8712. it does  include substance abuses. that is a mistake in the little chit that was circulated here. these individuals are at 75 percent of the poverty level or less. they can get health insurance. this safety net is essential to them if they are going to stay in the community.
what we are talking about here are two different standards. lets say under current law. somebody is eligible for afdc. automatically that individual gets medicaid. in the welfare reform bill that we have before us. we are saying to the states. "youre  bound by that may 1988 level. you can go below that. if you want." ok. that is fine. we all agree with that. that is what we voted on. but lets say the may 1988 levels were in the state 50 percent of the poverty level. and the state decides. "were going to get tougher on welfare eligibility. were going to make it so you cant get it if you are above 38 percent of the poverty level." under the roth proposal. he is saying. "that is right. you drop it down. but if you are currently receiving medicaid at the 50 percent level. that is all right. forget the 38 percent. you are taken care of." what i am saying is that that person who  is covered is going to be very. very reluctant to get off medicaid and take a job. because that person can get back on. according to the information i received from the manager of the bill.
 signed the welfare bill. second. our bill grandfathers those refugees who were in the country on august 22. 1996. regardless of whether they were receiving benefits. why this approach. to us. it is a matter of fundamental fairness. that is the principle that underlies our bill. we believe that those who were in this country and playing- by the rules should  have the rules suddenly changed out from under them. as for refugees. we provide them a slightly broader provision. since unlike other immigrants they do  have sponsors and they come here to flee persecution. this is a matter of great importance to the residents in the states represented before you today. in my own state. a significant percentage of our total population is immigrants. indeed. measured in those terms. rhode island is one of the top immigrant states in the country. some 10.000 legal immigrants in my state rely on ssi and food stamp benefits. quite a lot by ri standards. we believe that our approach is a reasonable. commonsense proposal that will appeal to members on both sides of the aisle and that can be enacted this year. by introducing this bipartisan bill today. we hope to signal to our colleagues the seriousness of our concern and the strength of our resolve. we intend to fight for passage of this bill. and we have every expectation of meeting with success.
. as you k. in the underlying bill there is a block grant of $125 million. this replaces that. i think that is wise because a block grant would cause a lot of problems in its distribution. trying to set up a new system to get the money out. the continuation of the existing system of the ssi benefits is. i believe strongly. the right way to go. so this is an occasion where i think we can all celebrate a little bit. i was strongly supportive of the welfare reform bill that we passed last year. i believe in it. i think it is working. at the time when we foresaw the difficulties that were going to come up under this particular group. i supported legislation to take care of them. that did  pass. i believe it was the legislation of the senator from the state of california. it did  pass. but  we are attacking that problem. as j mentioned before. i think it is coming out in a very satisfactory way. so i want to thank the chair. and. again. i do want to point out that senator dewine is deeply interested in this. as is senator specter. senator dewine may be on the floor a little later. i want to extend my appreciation to his work on this and also to the leadership of both parties in the senate for permitting this to be accepted. thank you very much.
we are talking xabout children at 133 percent of poverty or less. so i do  think this is going. overboard. i very much hope this could be accepted. . i am delighted to support this package and would be delighted to have any other assistance. cosponsors.
. as i mentioned before. we are dealing with a highway bill here. this isnt the appropriate place for that. when we did the welfare bill. i was the one who included in the welfare bill data collection provisions. should those data collection provisions be inadequate and need to be expanded along the lines the senator has suggested. i would be glad to work with him and see if we could  include those by working with the secretary of hhs. this. plainly. isnt the right place for this amendment. if the senator has hing further. i move to table the amendment of the senator from minnesota and ask for the yeas and nays.
 signed the welfare bill. second. our bill grandfathers those refugees who were in the country on august 22. 1996. regardless of whether they were receiving benefits. why this approach. to us. it is a matter of fundamental fairness. that is the principle that underlies our bill. we believe that those who were in this country and playing- by the rules should  have the rules suddenly changed out from under them. as for refugees. we provide them a slightly broader provision. since unlike other immigrants they do  have sponsors and they come here to flee persecution. this is a matter of great importance to the residents in the states represented before you today. in my own state. a significant percentage of our total population is immigrants. indeed. measured in those terms. rhode island is one of the top immigrant states in the country. some 10.000 legal immigrants in my state rely on ssi and food stamp benefits. quite a lot by ri standards. we believe that our approach is a reasonable. commonsense proposal that will appeal to members on both sides of the aisle and that can be enacted this year. by introducing this bipartisan bill today. we hope to signal to our colleagues the seriousness of our concern and the strength of our resolve. we intend to fight for passage of this bill. and we have every expectation of meeting with success.
. as you k. in the underlying bill there is a block grant of $125 million. this replaces that. i think that is wise because a block grant would cause a lot of problems in its distribution. trying to set up a new system to get the money out. the continuation of the existing system of the ssi benefits is. i believe strongly. the right way to go. so this is an occasion where i think we can all celebrate a little bit. i was strongly supportive of the welfare reform bill that we passed last year. i believe in it. i think it is working. at the time when we foresaw the difficulties that were going to come up under this particular group. i supported legislation to take care of them. that did  pass. i believe it was the legislation of the senator from the state of california. it did  pass. but  we are attacking that problem. as j mentioned before. i think it is coming out in a very satisfactory way. so i want to thank the chair. and. again. i do want to point out that senator dewine is deeply interested in this. as is senator specter. senator dewine may be on the floor a little later. i want to extend my appreciation to his work on this and also to the leadership of both parties in the senate for permitting this to be accepted. thank you very much.
we are talking xabout children at 133 percent of poverty or less. so i do  think this is going. overboard. i very much hope this could be accepted. . i am delighted to support this package and would be delighted to have any other assistance. cosponsors.
. as i mentioned before. we are dealing with a highway bill here. this isnt the appropriate place for that. when we did the welfare bill. i was the one who included in the welfare bill data collection provisions. should those data collection provisions be inadequate and need to be expanded along the lines the senator has suggested. i would be glad to work with him and see if we could  include those by working with the secretary of hhs. this. plainly. isnt the right place for this amendment. if the senator has hing further. i move to table the amendment of the senator from minnesota and ask for the yeas and nays.
. the animal welfare act of 1970. amending the 1966 act. added substance and scope to federal standards and enforcement of humane treatment of animals. and yet. on a recent tour of air freight facilities at washingtons national airport. i observed a number of substandard shipments of animals stuffed in flimsy crates and afforded better treatment than regular air freight. i submit that congress must exercise legislative leadership to assure humane treatment of animals transported in air commerce. the thrust of the bill reintroduced today by myself and senator griffin is to amend the animal welfare act of 1970 to provide that all animal shipment regulations in the act will be adhered to by the common carriers.  exempt in an unexplicable loophole. the bill. entitled the "animal air transport act" has also been introduced in the house by congressman whitehurst. of virginia. ever since the 91st congress. i have investigated alternatives for humane action in air commerce. first as a congressman. and  as a senator from connecticut. the problem and tragedies need  be elaborated on further. i would only refer my distinguished colleagues to an excellent article from the january issue of air line pilot magazine. "live cargo: cruelty aloft." injanuary 11. page 907. by congressman wnrteiurst. in extending coverage of the animal welfare act to common carriers. terminal facilities. and all pet shops. this bill closes major loopholes in existing law and affords an opportunity for shippers. carriers. humane societies and governmental agencies to cooperate in the formulation of new federal standards for the protection of animals in air transit. i am hopeful that the 93d congress will speedily enact this imperative amending legislation. by mr. hansen (for himself. mr. percy. and mr. mcgee):
. during 3 days of hearings held by the federal spending practices and efficiency subcommittee on food stamp program efficiency. testimony by various witnesses made it painfully clear that administrative redtape has made it more difficult for needy families to receive a nutritious diet. the main concern of my subcommittee and of many of the witnesses who testified was that the present food stamp programs administration fails to adequately meet the needs of eligible food stamp recipients. one of the major problems troubling many of the witnesses was that the application process to receive food stamp benefits was so troublesome and time consuming that the applicants face considerable difficulties in making their initial application. in fact. such delays often extended beyond the 30day legal limitation on application procedures. testimony illustrated many cases where people applying for food stamps faced undue hardships down the entire line of the application process. first. at the initial stage of applying. applications were  made available immediately. second. sometimes two or three visits were necessary to complete the application. third. delays were encountered in having an application processed. fourth. once the procedure was completed. additional delays resulted before ification of program acceptance and issuance of an authorization to purchase card. the features of the amendment offered by senators dole. mcgovern. hugh scott. and philip hart are designed to help alleviate the inefficient and cumbersome procedures inherent in the present program certification process. it will insure prompt attention to application requests. the present delays are totally unacceptable. recent growth in the unemployment ranks has only served to add to the chaos and complexity of the certification process. the amendment offered today to the bill extending food stamp benefits to ssi recipients is a necessary first step in the direction of humanizing the certification process for food stamp applicants.
" does the senator understand that probably a half dozen cities and states of the united states bear the entire welfare burden of the united states. probably about 40 states have hing to do with it. that is the problem. why should the state of new york pick it up. why should the u.s. government  pick it up.
. the subcommittee recommended last years level of $21.500.000 for runaway youth. however. last year. the full commit. tee agreed to $25 million. but exided up with $21.500.000 after conference. we could agree to $25 million and take the issue to conference again. these projects help reunite troubled youth with their families. and provide emergency shelter in the interim. i might add that this has been an issue of special concern to the distinguished senator from pennsylvania. and he has done an outstanding job on this issue. we all have to rely on the varied expertise that exists on this floor. and i think everyone will concede his leadership role in this matter.
. the subcommittee recommended last years level of $21.500.000 for runaway youth. however. last year. the full commit. tee agreed to $25 million. but exided up with $21.500.000 after conference. we could agree to $25 million and take the issue to conference again. these projects help reunite troubled youth with their families. and provide emergency shelter in the interim. i might add that this has been an issue of special concern to the distinguished senator from pennsylvania. and he has done an outstanding job on this issue. we all have to rely on the varied expertise that exists on this floor. and i think everyone will concede his leadership role in this matter.
i rise in opposition to the amendment of the distinguished senator from wisconsin. this program trains and places welfare recipients. mostly women on afdc. into permanent jobs. and it is estimated to save $2 in welfare costs for each $1 invested in job training. the labor department has long since made adjustments in the win program called for in a 1984 critical gao report. and i would suggest that in terms of cost effectiveness and dealing with the problem. the program is  of such a nature and administered in such a way as to represent a savings to the taxpayers of this nation. i oppose the amendment. and i hope it is rejected.
in big black print here. title 14. "tax shelter limitations. real estate interest limitations." then you go on here. and we k what this exception is for working interests in oil and gas property. first. it comes under the shelter tax. second. in the small print it says. "exception for oil and gas." everybody is going around here saying this is  a shelter. it is  an exception. this is  my language. this is the language of the bill. it is in the shelter section. it says. "exception for oil and gas." let me say one thing to my good friend from wyoming. i think he is entirely proper standing up here representing the interests of his state. problem. at issue here is  the importance of the oil and gas industry. or the importance of taking risk. or any of these matters. that is  at issue here. i would  dispute that. we will get on to that later. what is at issue very simply is oil and gas goes into the bath. into the tank with everybody else. all i am arguing against. if we are going to have a section on tax shelters there should  be that little title exceptions for working interests in oil and gas. that is all i am arguing.  the broad principle as to what my good friend from wyoming is stating. i have argument against that. very frankly. i think  only in his industry but other industries. industrywide there ought to be able exceptions. yes. the oil industry is in dire straits. so are textiles. and i go right down the checklists. steel. you k. right down the checklist.
. i rise today in support of s. 514. an important piece of legislation which will enable many who are currently dependent on federal benefits. to leave those benefit rolls. and join the nations workforce. in large measure. s. 514 was crafted to address the socalled creaming phee which has been far too common among job training partnership act [jtpaj grantees. "creaming" refers to the practice of serving primarily those who are the easiest to train and place in jobsleaving behind a core of chronic un- and underemployed welfare dependents. in order to address this problem. s. 514 amends jtpa to establish an incentive bonus system to get welfare dependent individuals trained. employed. and thus off the welfare rolls. i am particularly pleased that the bill before the senate today incorporates several provisions that will extend the proposed incentive bonus system to include job training and placement for disabled individuals receiving supplemental security incomemany of whom have been victims of "creaming" practices. disabled individuals are currently eligible for services through jtpa. however. recent national estimates indicate that only 9.7 percent of our nations disabled receive job training and placement through jtpa programs. yet a recent harris poll indicates that twothirds of disabled people between the ages of 16 and 64 are unemployed. there was a time in our nations history when we could look at that unemployment rate66 percentand accept it because we thought disabled individuals couldnt measure upthat they were limited in their ability to enter the workforce and become independent. productive participants in the american way of life. well. more. fortunately for all of. us. this doctrine of limitations has been replaced with a recognition of capacityan understanding that with appropriate education. training. and support. individuals with disabilities can enter the competitive work force and take their rightful place in our communities as valued participants. and we can help them help themselves by making available the education. training. and other support needed to achieve the goals of independence.. productivity. and integration. the amendments in the job training partnership act included in s. 514 will assist in that endeavor. and remove one more barrier along the road toward full integration of disabled individuals into the mainstream of life. the amendments will encourage states to train and place disabled people who receive supplemental security income. and require states to consider the unique needs of disabled individuals in their planning and coordination of services under jtpa. such amendments make ecoic sense because they will enable consumers of tax dollars to become taxpayers. ultimately. we all gain. i urge the passage of this legislation.
. it is an answer from a man who ks extensively and intensively how massive the problems of poverty are. in matters this grave. gover rockefeller will  let himself be swayed by partisan expediency. i am proud to stand alongside him. the transcript follows: issues and answers (sunday. september 24. 1967) guests: nelson a. rockefeller. (r. ny) gover of the state of new york. whitney young. executive director. national urban league. interrogated by: jim burns and layhmond robinson. abc new york correspondents.
. i feel that i would be remiss if i did  go on record in strong opposition to many of the amendments  a part of this legislation. first. the very controversial socalled green amendment remains almost intact. this one provision alone has done in aher way what opponents of oeo were unable to do. it provides that state and local governments may either act as community action agencies themselves or may designate agencies to act for them. in other words. oeo is  placed in the position of administering its programs and dispensing its funds in a similar manner to that of the traditional oldline agencies. the green amendment has been attacked as a sellout to city halland to the county courthouse in the south. the gentleman from new york. congressman goodell. called it on the floor the "bosses and boll weevil" amendment. many who have favored the antipoverty program are seriously disturbed. i count myself in this category. but i confess to being less seriously disturbed. or at least  disturbed egh to vote against the ecoic opportunity amendments of 1967. the conferees deferred the effective date of the green amendment to february 1. 1969. which. i hope. gives us all time to assess its potentials and its pitfalls and to adjust to it. and possibly even change it in the next congress. the amendment also gives the director of oeo the power to bypass the city hall or the county courthouse if they stall or misuse funds or in any way pervert the purposes of the ecoic opportunity legislation. i feel sure that the director of oeo will use this power. participation of the poor in the poverty program has been the great difference between this agencys policy. with respect to handling the problems of the poor. and that of any other governmental body in the country. i am disappointed that this participation of the poor will be lessened in this years legislation and hope that continued efforts will be made to reestablish this guiding policy. it is also my hope that duly elected local officials will become active partners in community action. that they will be concerned and recognize the valuable contributions that can be made by local government in fulfilling the goal of eradicating the poverty in our midst.
. i regret that it was impossible to make the changes i have suggested. and i equally regret  being able to register my dissent in the form of a vote against the aforementioned undesirable provisions in this legislation. which i fear will worsen the conditions of poverty that far too many americans find themselves in today.
the senator has well. pointed out that the headstart program has been rated a success by almost all those who testified. in addition to the assistance that is given to the child who participates in the headstart program. as the senator has also pointed out. the parents are directly affected. they are given an opportunity. under this program. to participate. and. in the professional jobs to become directly involved in the work of the headstart program. in addition. many other professionals from the community are hired to work in the program. and many volunteers from outside the community come in to help. it seems to me that here we have a program which admittedly is successful and is working. to disrupt the program at this time would be a source of great discouragement  only to the parents of the children in headstart but also to the country as a whole. we have had unfortunate experiences with some of the socalled poverty programs. but here we have a program which is working well. and to attempt to disrupt it in any way might be very injurious  only to headstart but to the whole concept of a concerted effort to eradicate poverty in america. . i have great respect for the senator from colorado and the senator from california.
i believe that if the green amendment goes into effect. if it does. that it really would emasculate the poverty program. i have listened to the distinguished senator from pennsylvania as to the effect of the green amendment. but it is too late to debate that at this time.
. i k that the senate conferees did their best. i realize that they faced an extremely difficult conference. and that the house conferees had an overwhelming mandate from their colleagues. under the circumstances. senator long and the members of the senate committee of finance who participated in this conference are to be commended. increased social security benefits have national support. if the bill were to be defeated this year. higher social security benefits would surely be voted next year. but i can in good conscience support a bill which includes with minimal social security benefits the present restrictive welfare provisions. i believe that this particular legislation should be defeated. and that when we all return to washington in january we should try again to draft and pass a bill which will help us to achieve our goal of a better.  a worse. life for our people.
. our entire country is facing a crisis of major proportions. the shipping industry is  alone in the obsolescence of its equipment or the inadequacy of its program. the poor of this nation are underfed. ill housed. and unemployed. yet the department of health. education. and welfare has cut back on all new obligational funding for hospitals. schools. and research programs. why then should the merchant marine have its research allocation nearly doubled. the congress appears reluctant to allocate an additional $25 million to further the headstart program for children whose education is more than obsolete. is indeed basically irrelevant. why then should we be willing to vote well over $100 million more than even the administration requested to build merchant ships. in this time of fiscal as well as social crisis. i believe that our national priorities demand that we put the immediate welfare of our people ahead of a number of other worthwhile but less critical programs. i do  suggest that improvement of our merchant marine should be postponed indefinitely. we are. by tradition and by necessity. a seagoing nation. the caliber and efficiency of our ocean transport must be improved. but such improvements should  take precedent over critically needed funding for social welfare.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record a list of the goals of the poor peoples campaign as it appeared in the washington post this morning. the members of the campaign are rquesting specific actions on the part of both congress and the administration. they have asked the assistance of the affected departments and agencies in achieving passage of legislation. i believe that this list of goals will prove a useful focus for all members of congress concerned with the elimination of poverty and hunger in america and anxious to secure the right of all americans to full participation in our society.
. later this week the senate will be voting on a resolution introduced by the junior senator from california . urging that the job corps be kept at its present status until the congress has had an opportunity tostudy and to advise on the question of its future. i am proud to be a cosponsor of that resolution. for despite the fact that i have on occasion been critical of the job corps. i believe that a promise has been made to the young men and women presently enrolled in the program. and i believe that their welfare should be paramount. . the present plan to close 59 job corps centers before adequate and appropriate slots are available in other comparable training programs is a source of great concern to me and to the people of new england. i have received hundreds of lettersfrom job corpsmen. from teachers. from parents. and from members of the community who have come to appreciate and to participate in the work of the training centersprotesting this particular ecoy measure. some of these letters are particularly eloquent. and i ask unanimous consent that a representative sampling of these views may be printed in the record for the edification of my colleagues.
. given conditions in this country and the world. i regret deeply any weakening of the guidelines established by the department of health. education. and welfare for the enforcement of equal educational opportunities. i want to see the socalled whitten amendments stricken entirely from the bill. and from the memory of all americans. even more. i want to see the day when legislation to enforce equal opportunities is longer necessary. when americans will of their accord see the injustice and inadequacies inherent in separation. and will take steps to overcome this unequal practice. but the choice before us today is whether to retain the original language narrowly passed by the house of representatives. or to adopt a modification thereof which would allow to the department of health. education. and welfare some of the flexibility it presently enjoys. we still have a long way to go if we are to end deliberate segregation in america and achieve a more rational use of our educational resources. but i believe that the substitute language will better enable this government to fulfill its promise to the youngest generation of americans. and to the future of america as well. i strongly urge its adoption.
 and others who have reduced the cost of food stamps. i think the best estimates are that there are 25.4 million people in the poverty category. the distinguished senator has eloquently said that the u.s. government is providing food  for 10 million people. that still leaves 15.4 million people who are  getting the benefits of the food stamp or food assistance program. as in the state of south carolina. so also in my state of massachusetts. many more communities are finding a need for the food stamp program. i want to commend the distinguished senator from south dakota. for he had the original intent that the program be expanded to $2 billion. i think it has been well stated in testimony that the $2 billion could be adequately used and still we could  achieve our goal. when we consider the fact that we have inflation and the fact that the present program is costing $100 million a month. actually would  be able to expand the program at all with the $1.250 billion. we might be getting less for this program. because of inflation. in fiscal 1971. if we are able to adopt this amendment in the senate and show some momentum in this program. the conferees will go into conference asking for $1.750 billion and .be able to get some agreement. the program ought to be going forward. there is question about that. people are starving in this nation. we are sending food to foreign countries. trying to feed foreign people. saying. "well. we ought to send some food to biafra." that is good. we should send some food to biafra. they say. "we ought to send food to latin america." that is good. we ought to send some food to latin america. but i think we also ought to send some food to the united states of america. where people are starving todayin south carolina. in massachusetts. in south dakota. and in florida as well. so i think this is one of the most important programs we have going for us in this country. i can see that it would be conscionable for us to go into a conference with anything less than $1.75 billion. again i commend the distinguished senator from south dakota for realizing the urgency. i think he is sympathetic to the problems of the distinguished senator from florida and the distinguished senator from nebraska. who have this problem in conference. we all k what the problems are. we k we have to ecoize. but we say this is  the place to ecoize. we must move forward in this food stamp program. and i urge my colleagues to overwhelmingly adopt the amendment.
 has already said he is willing to acceptwe can remove our lowerranking servicemen and their families from the welfare rolls. we can grant to military service the dignity and the self sufficiency which it truly deserves. and we can correct a longstanding injustice to the young men of our nation. both those who serve and those who choose  to do so. i am pleased to join with my distinguished colleague from colorado. once again. in support of this measure. i strongly urge the adoption of the pending amendment.
. i am glad that my distinguished colleague the senator from virginia. recognizes the fact that it all started in the great commonwealth of massachusetts. and massachusetts itself has a bicentennial commission. it is working on it. and many other states throughout the nation have bicentennial commissions. for the record. i want to say that we have had very distinguished leaders on the bicentennial commission. and the present chairman of that commission. david j. mahoney. is a very competent. very able. and very distinguished commission chairman. the commission has had some very serious problems. among them the question of the direction in which it would go in observing the bicentennial anniversary. many have believed that we should take on such projects as rapid transit systems throughout the nation or recognition of the great problems of poverty and air pollution and water pollution. others have indicated that we should have just a gigantic birthday party. or that we should have an exposition similar to those which were held in canada and in new york city. i. for one. have always believed that we should  have just a great exposition. a great birthday party. because we might expend tremendous sums of money. only to wake up the next morning with a big head. and find we have hing left. hing to point to. hing permanent to show for the celebration of our bicentennial. i commend the distinguished senator from maryland for his very timely suggestion. because at this period in this halfway mark. as we move into the planning phase of the bicentennial. i think it is appropriate that we take stock and that we broaden the commission membership. i do  k that we will be able to include all the suggestions of the distinguished senator from maryland. because he has suggested that we limit the commission membership to 25. but i certainly think that the intent of the distinguished senator from maryland can be carried out by the commission in getting as broad a representation of this nation. as broad a participation. as we can of all sectors and all groups within this nation. so that the bicentennial can be truly representative of the united states of america. i think that the commission itself recognizes this great need. i think the commission wants it. i think the commis. sion will vote for this amendment. i cer. tainly support the senators amendment and i hope that the senate will suppor it as well. because it is needed. and it wil enable the commission to get on with it. tremendous work. time is of the essence time is running out. and precious fev years are left for us to execute some o the plans which have already beex adopted by the bicentennial commission
. one of the great privileges for a junior member of the united states senate is the opportunity to serve with some of the men and women who have personally shaped our countrys destiny and participated in its great and glorious history. carl t. hayden was such a man. born and raised in the western frontier. he retained and used to the nations advantage throughout his life those qualities of independence. flexibility and superb judgment which mark a man of action and integrity. when i first met carl hayden. he had already served in the congress of the united states for 55 years. 40 of those years in the united states senate. his accomplishments in that time are legion. his concern for the welfare of the american people. his dedication to the cause of better living standards and equal opportunities. his commitment to a strong and constructive role for america in the world. have helped to shape this nation and make us strong. it is fitting that carl haydens colleagues and countrymen should join in tribute and lasting remembrance to a man whose life has made such a difference in the life of our land.
. it was with deep regret that i learned of the death of former representative adam clayton powell. jr.. of new york. i believe that adam clayton powell should be recognized for the positive impact he made upon the nation. for 26 years. adam clayton powell. jr.. served in the congress of the united states. in his prime he was the outstanding black political leader in the nation. during the 1940s and into the 1950s his was one of the few voices heard from the black community in behalf of equal rights for all americans. as a member. and later chairman of the house education and labor committee. he fought for civil liberties. for education. and for job opportunities. he was a major contributor to the passage of the war on poverty legislation. to the adoption of manpower training programs and aid to colleges and libraries. adam clayton powell made a rich contribution to the welfare of the american people and the advancement of human rights. it is fitting that the nation recognize these contributions and express our appreciation for them.
 nixons family assistance program. first proposed in august of 1969. at the time the fap program was initially unveiled. i welcomed its concepts. for i recognize the failure of our current welfare system. however. the family assistance program as passed by the house is unacceptable. it fails to protect the rights and benefits of present welfare recipients and of future participants in fap. the committee on finance has approved an even more regressive and degrading workfare system. under this system any welfare recipient who does  have children under the age of 6 actually living in the home. would be required to accept domestic or public service employment at the unbelievably low rate of $1.20 per hour. the senate is deeply divided on the welfare issue. and a lengthy public debate is certain to ensue. however. our elderly can endure a further delay in the enactment of h.r. 1. and welfare families. present and future. can and should  endure the diminution of their rights and benefits that could result from either the housepassed welfare reform or the workfare plan adopted by the finance committee. therefore. i suggest that the senate abandon the welfare reform provisions of h.r. 1. and proceed promptly with the other essential provisions of this measure. it is with some reluctance that i suggest an abandonment of welfare reform this session. but i would prefer change in the present system to changes which are reforms in name only. our nations elderly. some 4.7 million of whom  live in poverty. deserve our closest attention during senior citizens month and during every month of the year. their needs compel  only a revision of our laws. but a rethinking of our 3ocietys attitudes as well. our youthoriented culture has too long iged the plight of its 20 million elderly citizens. we must measure up. fully and promptly. to the needs and expectations of those who have served us far better than we have served them.
. i am most grateful to my distinguished colleague. the senior senator from new hampshire . i thank him for his most generous words. i am very privileged to serve on the subcommittee on labor. health. education. and welfare and related agencies of the appropriations committee. of which he is the ranking miity member. we have worked together on important problems which require appropriations for the poor and needy in this country. but i certainly agree with him that our first obligation is the defense and security of this nation. and if i did  feel so strongly that we needed this weapons system for our security and for the security of peace in the world. i assure him i would much rather have seen these funds allocated for the purposes of the needy and the poor. but we are cutting back on defense. we have done some of it in this defense bill already. we will do more. this is  the place to cut back. our security can be compromised. i am very grateful again for these words from a man whom i respect so much. the distinguished senior senator from new hampshire 
. this is  what we intended when we adopted the food stamp act amendments of 1973. the present plans can result in continuing hardship for many deserving families. and the denial to many otherwise eligible families of the benefits to which we intended that they be entitled under an act of congress. this situation is untenable. and i urge the appropriate authorities to reconsider their actions. and to provide adequate food stamp benefits to the people of puerto rico as soon as possible.
. i want once again to respectfully disagree with my distinguished colleague from th carolina in his assertion that this is a busing amendment. i am very sorry that the distinguished senator from florida and the distinguished senator from louisiana were  on the floor when i addressed the subject to which they had previously made reference. but they are here  and i would like to say to them that i associate myself with them. thougn i understand that they are against busing. when they state that they believe that the law ought to apply to the th as well as to the south and that the guidelines and the rules of the game should  be changed during the time that this legislation is in effect. the effect of the helms amendmentand let there be doubt about itis to take away hews authority. pursuant to title vi and title ix. to enforce the civil rights laws on behalf of miities and women. and hing else. it is  an antibusing amendment and can be construed so. the secretary of health. education. and welfare has never said that this is an antibusing amendment. because that is  the fact. i hope that this amendment will be overwhelmingly defeated by my colleagues in the senate.
. amendment  44 is the socalled casey amendment named after its sponsor. the congressman from texas. the casey amendment has been rejected by the senate in committee. on the senate floor and in conference with the house of representatives. today. we are being asked to vote on it again. and i urge that we reject it again. just yesterday the house came within one vote of defeating this amendment. the vote for many was a heartbreaking 212 to 211. what the house tried to do yesterday the senate should do today. defeat the casey amendment. and today we are a little stronger in our allies. i am pleased to report that last night i was advised that the department of health. education. and welfare opposes the casey amendment. what is the casey amendment. the amendment is aimed at title ix of the education amendments of 1972 which prohibit. with certain exceptions. discrimination based on sex in federally assisted education programs. the casey amendment would prohibit the use of any funds appropriated by h.r. 5901to "draft. publish. promulgate. or enforce" regulations requiring the integration by sex of: physical education classes. hoary. service or social sororities and fraternities. boy scouts. girl scouts. ymca. ywca. campfire girls. boys clubs. and girls clubs. it would also prohibit the withholding of funds appropriated by h.r. 5901 to compel integration by sex in any of the classes or organizations that i have listed. much of the casey amendment relating to social fraternities and sororities and youth service organizations. such as the girl scouts. duplicates existing law. i refer to the bayh amendment which congress enacted on december 16. 1974. this law exempts these organizations from title ix. as for physical education. the forthcoming title ix rules do require coeducational classes. there really is hing startling in this for many schools already are integrating gym classes and we hear that the students find them rewarding.
. at the outset of the senates new session we must address a key issue that we must deal with as soon as possible: food stamp program reform. i would like to start that process by introducing a bill today. while this legislation does  speak to all the intracies of our prospective legislative chore. it does propose a reform which i feel must be the basis of our lawmaking in this important areathe elimination of the food stamp purchase requirement. many of my colleagues will remember the efforts.we undertook last year to reform the food stamp program. indeed. under the capable leadership of the distinguished gentleman from georgia. mr. talmadge. who chairs the senate agriculture committee. we acted upon a compromise measure offered by him. mr. dole. and mr. mcgovern. among others. it was a good measure. one that a majority of the senate supported. unfortunately. however. the house of representatives failed to act on this legislation prior to adjournment. so this year we again must look at this program for lowincome citizens and fashion legislation that addresses their needs and the demand for trimmeddown. efficient. and effective program operation.
the senator touches my heart when he says that the welfare recipients lawyers do  go home to the slums. i have heard that statement. but let me add to that statement: the landlords do  go home in the slums either.
 as a liberal. if you watch his votes. you would call him an independent. in many matters he is conservative and austere. the junior senator from new york keeps referring to liberalism when speaking of this amendment. even the conservatives are moving to cash payments for welfare recipients. the administration has been advocating cash in the hands of welfare recipients.
i want to assure the senator i have the needs of new york on my heart as well. we all do. we all love new york. i am  sure i am going to be with you tomorrow night at the world series. but i love it anyway. however. the point is that here we are making national policy. and very serious national policy. and i hope that our colleagues in the senate will  take a backward step when we are moving forward and having faith and confidence in welfare recipients to pay their bills. and pay their bills on time. that to me is the real principle involved in this whole amendment. i have that faith and confidence. and i ask my colleagues in the senate to have that faith and confidence as well
our language does  say who must make the report to the law enforcement agency or public health service or its equivalent. it is our intent that the report may be made by third parties. such as doctors. attorneys including. but  limited to legal services lawyers. rape center counselors. welfare agencies. poverty agencies or family members or relatives. our only requirement here is that someone or some organization make the report to relevant authorities cited in the provision. am i correct in my explanation of our intent on this matter.
. i am pleased today to join my distinguished colleague from california in offering an amendment to s. 991 to prevent the head start program from being incorporated in the proposed new department of education. by placing head start within the new department. we run the risk of emphasizing the educational aspects of the program at the expense of other important development and welfare components. the result of such a shift in emphasis could very well have catastrophic consequences for our poorest and most vulnerable children. to provide a full explanation of my position for opposing the inclusion of head start within the department of education. i am submitting for the record a copy of my recent testimony on this issue in hearings before the senate governmental affairs committee. the testimony follows:
i am glad the gentleman made those comments about our joint effort. because i want to emphasize that identical resolutions were prepared and presented to each member of the delegation. and it was because of the wise and constructive counsel of the gehtleman from massachusetts that we decided that i. as a member of the committee on interstate and foreign commerce. which would receive this bill for consideration. should introduce one resolution on behalf of the entire massachusetts delegation. which has indeed been completely united. as it always is in matters affecting the welfare of massachusetts.
s air policy commission emphasized the great importance to the welfare of the country. as a whole. of the development of airports such as logan. the entire massachusetts delegation has been united in its constant efforts to be of assistance in this connection. and i k that i am speaking for them when i express this word of appreciation to the acting chairman of the house committee on interstate and foreign commerce. to all the members of that committee. and to the members of the house. as a whole. for their cooperation in this matter. i hope that similar action will be taken promptly in the other body so that the amended resolution can become law within a very short time.
. last week 50.000.000 bushels of potatoes were ordered into the process of destruction. the cost of that destruction is estimated at between thirtyone and onefourth and fifty million dollars. in the first district of massachusetts a great many potatoes are grown. they are available for human consumption. massachusetts officials of the united states department of agriculture report that there are plenty of them. on friday the authorities of greenfield. mass.. requested me to see if i could find any way by which they could obtain some of these potatoes for consumption by needy people in that town. i obtained assurances from the department of agriculture here in washington that it would cooperate in that effort. a survey of needs is being undertaken by the local clergy and the council of social services of greenfield. their report will be available at 5 oclock tomorrow. the state department of public welfare has assured us today that it would cooperate. if the federal department of agriculture keeps its promise to *me. those potatoes will be eaten.  destroyed. you will have a clear precedent under which you can assist your communities to get these potatoes to people who need them. all our communities are burdened by gigantic costs for welfare and assistance. this can reduce that bill in some degree. it will save the federal treasury between thirtyone and onefourth and fifty million dollars. in connection with remarks i made on thursday with reference to the problem of disposing of surplus edible food commodities i stated that it occurred to me that all members might like to k what the commodity inventories of the commodity credit corporation showed as to items other than potatoes. dried eggs. and dried milk as of december 31. 1949. and i added that i would ask permission to include these figures. through inadvertence i did  include them in the revision of my remarks. so that the record may be complete. i want to place the entire list in the record both as to amounts and as to the cost as contained in the official report of the commodity credit corporation. they are: dried milk. 254.490.784 pounds ---------------- $31.615.535.72 dried eggs. 49.445.878 pounds ----------------- 98. 645.444.68 butter. 98.675.801 pounds_.-- 61. 003. 323. 06 cheese. 23.935.157 pounds... 8. 030. 266. 80 prunes. 49.985.455 pounds_..- 5. 006. 203.64 raisins. 22.972.380 pounds.- 2. 210. 133.26 edible dried beans. 4.850.795 hundredweight --------- 42. 859.926.40 rice. 431.820 hundredweight- 2. 936. 252. 60 turkeys. 725.480 pounds---- 309. 173.80 canned mexican meat. 49.445.878 pounds --------- 12.468. 074..26 this involves a matter of approximately 277.480 tons of surplus commodities at a total cost of approximately $265.000.000. in addition. of course. there are these 50.000.000 bushels of surplus edible potatoes which the secretary stated last week would be destroyed in the next few weeks at a cost of between thirtyone and onefourth million and fifty million dollars.
. i want to deal with aher aspect of this potato situation. it relates to those people who are in charge of the responsibility of administering welfare in all of our communities at a greatly increasing cost to the average taxpayer. it also deals with people who could eat these potatoes if we could get the potatoes to them but who are unable to purchase the potatoes on the open market. it deals particularly with a procedure which i think is practical especially  through which we can be of some assistance in those cases. it will take about 15 minutes for me to place this information before the house i would like to report briefly on the developments in greenfield. mass.. with reference to obtaining surplus potatoes from areas immediately adjoining greenfield. and for the use of persons certified to be in need of them. but unable to purchase them. i think you will all recall that there was a meeting of the senate committee on agriculture with the secretary of agriculture on january 31. prior to the hour of that meeting. the secretary had issued a press release covering his statement to be made before the committee. i shall insert the full release in the revision of my remarks. but i want to deal  with one specific sentence. it is as follows: . however. section 411 of the act of 1949 requires that section 32 funds be devoted principally to perishable basic agricultural commodities which are  designed for mandatory price supports by the act. potatoes are designed for mandatory support. and it is therefore  possible to continue using these funds to finance potato disposal on a paidfreight basis. this was brought to the attention of the secretary and he called upon mr. edward m. shulman. associate solicitor in charge of production and adjustment. commodity credit corporation. to testify. mr. shulman stated: i do  think it is a prohibition. the junior senator from new mexico inquired: do you regard it as a prohibition. mr. shulman replied:  sir. this was extensively discussed in the other body on february 2 and 3. i called specific attention to page 1427 of the record where certain important facts are set forth. and specifically to the remarks of the former secretary of agriculture. the junior senator from new mexico. as follows: i call attention to the fact that in the 1949 farm act there is provision that commodities in danger of spoiling can be handled in several specific ways. the thomas amendment provides. first of all. that such commodities shall be available to indians and other needy persons within the united states. the schoollunch program and charitable institutions * 0 * i may say to the senator from wisconsin. i would like to see that provision of the act tried and tried vigorously before we turn to the alternative of seeking at this late date to establish a stamp plan which has tremendous administrative difficulties. nevertheless. on friday evening. february 3. the secretary ordered the field men of the federal department to start dumping the 50.000.000 bushels of surplus edible potatoes and predicted that the total to be destroyed in the next few weeks would be between 25.000.000 and 40.000.000 bushels at a cost of $1.25 per bushel. that would be between $31.250.000 and $50.000.000. this precipitous action was tragic in the face of the statement of former secretary of agriculture anderson in the senate friday aftern that the 1949 act gave the secretary discretion to make these surplus commodities available to schoollunch programs. to welfare and charitable institutions. and to the bureau of indian affairs. on february 9 i was requested by responsible constituents in greenfield. mass.. to inquire as to the possibilities and procedures for obtaining some of these potatoes for persons in need of them but unable to purchase them. after conferences with the division of food distribution program branch of the department. i reported that i had been advised that the department was willing to cooperate in this effort. and that it would send me copies of agreements which were available for completing arrangements for such distribution. i shall include copies of two agreements in the revision of my remarks kn as form fp51. agreement with the united states department of agriculture for distribution and use of commodities. and the state agency. and form fp53. an agreement between distributing agency and recipient agency for commodities donated by the united states department of agriculture. at this time. however. it is necessary to refer only to two sentences in these forms. in form fp51 there is the following sentence: such distribution or use shall  be in excess of the maximum rates of distribution established by the department. in form fp53 there is the following sentence: commodities will be requested and accepted only in such quantities as can and will be fully utilized but  to exceed the rates established by the united states department of agriculture. let me emphasize those words. " to exceed the rates established by the united states department of agriculture." on july 1. 1949. effective immediately. the federal department issued a schedule of maximum quantities of section 32 commodities that may be issued to varioussized welfare families during 1 month. i shall include that schedule in the revision of my remarks. but for present purposes i need only refer to the schedule for irish potatoes in particular. it provides the following maximum quantities: pounds for 1 person ------------------------- 10 for 2 persons ----------------------- 20 for 3 or 4 persons -------------------- 25 for 5 or 6 persons ------------------- 35 for 7 or 8 persons ------------------- 45 for 9 or 10 persons ------------------ 55 for 11 or more persons ---------------- 65 these maximums. particularly in the middle groups are absurd. i have made a request for an immediate review and revision and shall report the results of the request as soon as i have them. the full press release follows:
many responsible people certainly agree with that observation. including the leading democratic newspaper of new england. the boston post. which closed an editorial entitled "potato dumping" by saying:  summoned his* congressional farm leaders to a white house conference. following which one of the conferees disclosed that mr. truman has received a "barrel of letters" protesting the plan to destroy up to 40.000.000 bushels of potatoes." to continue. upon receipt of gover devers telegram. i discussed these developments with the associate director of food distribution here. he said that the plans which had been made were entirely satisfactory to the department. that the form fp53 would  have to be used. that all that will be required is a simple agreement or a letter stating that the local board of welfare would assume responsibility for proper storage and distribution of these potatoes. the previous aftern. i had a lengthy conference with mr. dittrich. in charge of the theastern area. food distribution program branch. and his assistant. mr. philip hearn. all this led. i am sure. to a final recognition on the part of the department here and on the part of the massachusetts state welfare department that rigid insistence upon the exact compliance with the federal agreements and regulations.  only would make it utterly impossible for greenfield to obtain these potatoes ecoically. but would. in effect. prohibit the disposition of these potatoes or any other food commodity  owned by the federal government to the american people who need them and would only support this order of destruction. at this point may i call your attention to the fact that in the record for february 13 i listed the total amount of food commodities and their cost. which was contained in the official report of the commodity credit corporation at the end of december last year. they run through dried milk. dried eggs. butter. cheese. prunes. raisins. edible dried beans. rice. turkeys. and canned mexican meat. there are in excess of 277.480 tons of these surplus commodities and they have already cost the government over $265.000.000.
. i am delighted to report that i was informed about a half hour ago that the greenfield authorities have received authorization from the massachusetts department of public welfare to order 5 tons of surplus potatoes from storage in the immediate vicinity of greenfield. that the salvation army plans to pick up these potatoes on thursdaytomorrow being a legal holiday in massachusetts. and that they will then be available for distribution to the needy people of greenfield for food. i attempted to report yesterday in some detail as to the steps which were necessary to bring about this result. i promised to put this in concise form for the use of my colleagues in assisting their communities which may wish to receive some of these potatoes. i do that . you will find the full greenfield experience in the record for february 20. but i am confident that with their experience a great deal of red tape can be eliminated and a great deal of direct action is possible. any community must conduct a survey through responsible agencies. in greenfield this was done by the entire clergy of the town with the council of social agencies. the report of the number of needy families should be submitted to the local board of public welfare. be approved by it. and forwarded to the responsible state official. i have obtained a list for the new england and th atlantic seaboard states. they are: connecticut: e. c. geissler. supervisor of purchases. department of finance and control. purchasing department. state capitol building. room 408. hartford. conn. maine: john e. collins. supervisor. surplus commodities and property. department of education. statehouse. augusta. maine. massachusetts: john c. stalker. director. food distribution division. department of public welfare. 600 washington street. boston. mass. new hampshire: harold theney. purchasing agent for state of new hampshire. statehouse. concord. n. h. rhode island: george e. helliwell. deputy commissioner. state of rhode island general store. howard. r. i. vermont: burton n. sisco. deputy commissioner. department of institutions and corrections. 51 court street. montpelier. vt. delawaretwo agencies: a. tarumianz. assistant business manager. delaware state hospital. farnhurst. del. schools: george r. miller. jr.. state superintendent. department of public instruction. box 191. dover. del. marylandtwo agencies: j. m. patterson. director. maryland state department of public welfare. 120 west redwood street. baltimore. md.- schools: t. g. pullen. superintendent. maryland state board of education. 1201 mathison building. baltimore. md. new jersey: james s. king. state supervisor. commodity distribution. department of ecoic development. division of commerce and municipal aid. 520 east state street. trenton. n. j. new york: distribution in new york is handled through each of the county departments of public welfare. each county has its own setup. state provides distribution agency at a central point. pennsylvania: paul worcester. pennsylvania state department of property and supplies. bureau of purchases. room 178. main capitol building. harrisburg. pa. this official in each state has full authority to issue authorization for the withdrawal of the required number of potatoes. once the local board of public welfare has voted to accept the responsibility for the proper storage and proper distribution of these potatoes. i shall include at the end of my remarks the letter sent by the greenfield board which resulted in immediate authorization. it is  necessary to execute the form fp53. the contents of which i inserted in the record yesterday. i trust this information will be useful to my colleagues. i shall be glad to furnish any further information requested. i should repeat that i have raised the question of the adequacy of the minimum quantities provided in the departments table which i inserted in the record yesterday and i hope soon to have a realistic recognition of the amount any mal american family can properly use as food during a month. i can state that  of the house committee onagriculture yesterday. asking for a prompt hearing. we shall appreciate your cooperation in urging that hearing. the letter sent by the greenfield board which resulted in immediate authorization read as follows:
 of the committee. assistant secretary of commerce c. r. shaeffer wrote. in part: we wish to invite your attention to the fact that h. r. 4159 and h. r. 3851 provide that the standard of flammability shall be the commercial standard  in effect. and any modification thereof shall be made in accordance with presently existing procedures for the development of cohmercial standards. the assent of a large segment of the affected industry is required before standards are placed in effect or modified under presently existing procedures. where adherence to commercial standards is purely voluntary. this procedure is satisfactory. the required asset to modifications of the standards of flammability by a substantial number of the persons to be regulated by the proposed law raises a question of the constitutionality of the delegation of authority to establish modifications in the standard. the applicable law is  clear. in any event. the policy involved appears subject to question. an examination of the hearings will indicate that this expression of concern as to constitutionality led members of the committee to examine witnesses closely on the point. as a result. the committee reached a definite policy decision and refused to approve of the procedure originally suggested of permitting future modifications of the standards  in effect. solely under the presently existing procedures for the development of commercial standards. while it was demonstrated to the satisfaction of the committee that commercial standards 19153. prescribing the standard for flammability of clothing textiles and 19253. prescribing the standard of flammability of vinyl plastic film had been developed in an entirely satisfactory manner. it will be clear from a wording of section 4 that the committee was firm in its insistence that. should these standards be found by the secretary of commerce to be inadequate for the protection of the public interest. he must submit a report to the congress setting forth his finding. together with such proposals for legislation as he may deem to be appropriate. i believe it may well become a matter of importance. in terms of the legislative history of this legislation. to make it clear beyond any question that the committee was keenly conscious of the significance of the original proposal of delegation of authority to a segment of the industry affected by the legislation and that it has consciously and deliberately declined to accept that suggestion because of its convictions as to the unconstitutionality of any such delegation. i am equally certain that the industry and the public can and will be completely protected by the continuous studies which the committee expects the secretary of commerce to make of the suitability and effectiveness of the test methods provided in these standards. and related test methods. together with the specific authority and duty on the part of the secretary to report to the congress whenever he finds any inadequacy has developed in the application of these standards. i k that the committee and congress will be ready always to do whatever may become necessary to improve upon and perfect any procedures in the important field so as to promote the public welfare or to insure a greater degree of safety. however. the committee has also demonstrated its consciousness of its own responsibility to insure that any procedures or methods it recommends to the house meet the requirements of the constitution. in that way only can the public welfare be best guaranteed.
finally may i refer to this sentence in the report: it makes commodities available for relief distribution abroad by private profit welfare organizations. will the chairman explain who would qualify. how they would do that and the procedures to be followed.
. it seems to me that it is vitally important to the welfare of the district. and to the standard of service which should be associated with the office. that the senate should require that an opportunity be given to the inee to present his merits to the committee. so that when the question arises as to whether .there may be an audit of the accounts of his office. he may recognize the fact that such a question is one for the senate to consider on its merits and  on a political basis. it seems to me that if it appears to him from the start that the only qualification he must have for this office is one of political expediency. proper protection will  be provided for the incumbent.  will the senate render proper service to the public in connection with the matter. i may say. therefore. that i feel the obligation to make this motion. because four members of the committee on the district of columbia have joined in a letter to the chairman of the district committee under date of september 18. signed by the senator from kansas . the senator from new hampshire . the senator from south dakota . and myself. four members of the senate committee. as follows:
i am looking for the reference in the charter itself that deals with the scope of the question. i think there will be found in article 11 a reference to that type of situation dealing with the general assembly. in paragraph 2 it says: 2. the general assembly may discussthat is. when it reaches the discussion pointthe general assembly may discuss any questions relating to the maintenance of international peace and security brought before it by any members of the united nations. or by the security council. or by a state which is  a member of the united nations in accordance with article 35. paragraph 2. and. except as provided in article 12. may make recommendations with regard to any such questions to the state or states concerned or to the security council or to both. then in article 14 there is a special reference which i think was putin to cover the existing condition of things and to show that they could be gone into even though doing so involved a review of existing treaties. article 14 says: subject to the provisions of article 12. the general assembly may re mmend measures for the peaceful adjustment of any situation. regardless of origin. which it deems likely to impair the general welfare or friendly relations among nations. including situations resulting from a violation of the provisions of the present charter setting forth the purposes and principles of the united nations. i understand that the senator from michigan is the father of the phrase "regardless of origin." and that it was inserted for the purpose of making clear that whatever contributes to the impairment of the general welfare or friendly relations among nations. whether it be an existing treaty or a longexisting condition. it may be brought before the general assembly.
i think they could bring their disputes before the general assembly. whether that body would take them up i think it would then depend on whether or  their disputes would impair the general welfare or friendly relations among nations. i would think they would have an opportunity. therefore. to get results.
i agree with what the senator from maine has stated. and it would relate  only to those questions which might involve a threat to the peace of the world. but i call attention to the following language of article 14: any situation * * * which it deems likely to impair the general welfare or friendly relations among nationswhich is even broader.
. i am  objecting. because to insist upon adjournment at this time. and thus to prevent the senate from following the ordinary procedure on the foreignaid bill would jeopardize final action on that bill. which is of primary importance to the welfare of the united states. i would  wish that to occur. deeply as i feel about the civilrights bill. and strongly as i support it.( i am strongly in favor of any efforts to pass that bill. and i shall support any move in that direction. including efforts to call up that bill after the foreignaid bill and the conference report on its shall have been acted on. the suggestion has been made that action on the conference report may be held up. i do  take that view. but if that occurs. the responsibility for it will be where it belongs. and the responsibility for holding up action on the civilrights measure will be where everyone in the world will k it should be placed. but it seems to me that in this case it would be an act of irresponsibility if i were to refrain from joining in the request of the senator from texas. so that the conference report on the mutualsecurity appropriation bill may finally be agreed to.
. we strongly support the civilrights program of the administration. which has been substantially embodied in house bill 627. which the house passed recently. this measure is in sense punitive or extreme. it is moderate. realistic. and sound. and its enactment is very much needed. i wish the bill could have been enacted into law at this session of congress. i recognize that this is  possible. i recognize. too. that if an effort had been made during the closing days of the session to force consideration. a filibuster would have resulted. which would have endangered the entire legislative program. and led. among other things. to the almost certain defeat of legislation vitally necessary to the security and welfare of the nation. this situation must  be repeated. we are determined to press at the next session of congress for orderly but prompt consideration of the bill. i therefore ask both the majority leader and the miity leader as individuals. and as undoubted leaders in the next session of congress. if they will give assurance that. whichever party controls the congress. they will use their best efforts to secure prompt and early consideration of that measure.
. the wagnerpeyser act of 1933 established a nationwide system of public employment offices. these offices. which are located in all 48 states. alaska. hawaii. puerto rico. and the virgin islands. are operated as a state function in cooperation with the united states employrfient service. in addition. the operation of these offices is coordinated with the administration of unemployment insurance. aher state operation. the district of columbia is in an unusual situation with respect to these functions. on the one hand. the statutes presently require that the united states department of labor operate the public employment service for the district. a practice which does  conform with the pattern throughout the rest of the country. at the same time. unemployment insurance for workers in the district of columbia is administered. as it should be. by the district government. thus two different jurisdictions presently administer functions whose administration should be in conjunction with each other to assure maximum benefit from both. i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill which would transfer the public employment service for the district to the district government and thereby place responsibility for the operation of the program. together with the means of carrying it out. in the hands of local rather than federal authority. the ecoy and efficiency of both employment service and unemployment insurance programs should increase as a result of administration by the same authority. the proposal authorizes and directs the district commissioners to furnish the public employment services required by the wagnerpeyser act. to accomplish this purpose. the commissioners are directed to establish a new agency with at least two coordinate divisions. one to administer the employment service and the other to administer the unemployment insurance functions. as at present. all employees administering these functions are to be included in the federal civil service. change in the cost to the federal government of operating this service should result from enactment of this proposal since the district will be reimbursed by the federal government. as are all states. of the costs of the operation. this bill. if enacted. would constitute legislation separate from the wagnerpeyser act. but would contain certain necessary amendments of that act.
i believe that is the issue involved. in closing. let me say. on the merits of the question. that i believe the people of the country and the members of the senate really have a great deal more to fear from the abuse by our committees of their toogreat power. including the power vested in the chairmen. insofar as the liberties of the people and the welfare of the people are concerned. than they have to fear from any bypassing of our committees. i believe we ought to look at this subject in its true perspective. on the merits of the great issue of civil rights. there can. it seems to me. be only one answer. and likewise there can be only one answer when it comes to the merits of the fair and reasonable bill which. at long last. there seems to be a reasonable prospect of our enacting. after more than threequarters of a centry of effort with success in legislation in this field. because of the very kind of opposition which so bitterly and to the last ditch makes its fight beginning. perhaps. tonight. .  only is the ruling right. but the obligation on the members of the senate responsibly to act upon the question which has been placed upon them so rightly by the presiding officer is equally clear.
i want to express my appreciation to the senator from new york and to the senators who have joined with him in this colloquy. it was very necessary to have said at the present time what he has said. i should like to make this point. perhaps it has  seemed this way to anybody else. but to me it has seemed exceedingly strange that throughout the whole effort to secure civilrights legislation. so many persons connected with the congress and so many observers of the congress have had a tendency to regard the effort either as politically motivated or as a kind of game of wits. . i suggest that it is about time the american people be given the picture in its correct light and be told that we are dealing with a great moral issue. we are dealing with an issue deeply affecting the welfare of the nation at the present time in relation to world affairs. its security. its position in history. and its survival. i thank the senator from new york for giving us the opportunity to express what we all deeply feel on this issue. i am sure he has made it more possible to bring about a resolution of the sort we ought to reach.
. i wish to commend the junior senator from texas on the submission of a resolution in regard to a higher education study which he has presented on behalf of himself and a number of our colleagues. including the senior senator from new jersey. the problem of higher education is one with which we are all concerned. one which has many ramifications. and one that many of us have made many suggestions in regard to handling. unfortunately. time ran on so quickly during the session that it was impossible for our subcommittee on education to take definitive action on the many proposals that were made before us. but. as the senator from texas has said. we have been working  only closely with each other. but also closely with secretary flemming. as he also said. the resolution for the study and the report to be made by the secretary of health. education. and welfare is a subject on which the department is fully agreed. and all members who have signed the resolution on a bipartisan basis are also agreed. i hope that much good will come of it. i believe this effort is additional evidence that with respect to this great problem we are  acting in a partisan or narrow way. but senators on both sides of the aisle who are deeply dedicated to the service of education have joined and will continue to join in seeking the legislation proposed. i ask unanimous consent that these remarks be placed at the conclusion of the remarks of the senator from texas which he made when he submitted his resolution.
. today i was privileged to join in the celebration marking the 50th anniversary of establishing hadassah. the womens zionist organization of america. which has done so much to assist the new democracy in the middle east. the nation of israel. these women. through the years. have accomplished remarkable progress in helping improve the health. education. and social welfare of our good friends in israel. their intelligent generosity through five decades has helped this fledgling nation to achieve the kind of social progress which many new nations seek to emulate. i offer my warm congratulations on this happy anniversary.
. i was shocked to read in the press. this morning. that nine southern govers contemplate the formation of a congressional bloc to force the office of education to change its guidelines for school desegregation. the bloc. to be made up of southern members. would threaten to withhold appropriations to the department of health. education. and welfare unless the office of education agreed to slow down the pace of desegregation. section of the civil rights act. passed last summer. received more careful scrutiny than title vi. that title. in section 601. provides: person in the united states shall. on the ground of race. color. or national origin. be excluded from participation in. be denied the benefits of. or be subjected to discrimination under any program or activity receiving federal financial assistance. section 602 further provides: each federal department and agency which is empowered to extend federal financial assistance to any program or activity. by way of grant. loan. or contract. other than a contract of insurance or guaranty. is authorized and directed to effectuate the provisions of section 601 with respect to such program or activity by issuing rules. regulations. or orders of general applicability. congress acted decisively. there can be question about the policy of this nation. under the act. the responsibility of the department of health. education. and welfare and the office of education is clear. the commissioner of education. francis e. keppel. and the department would be derelict in the performance of their duty had they  acted to establish guidelines which will promptly bring about desegregation of schools receiving federal assistance. as the govers own statement declared: this department (health. education. and welfare) is a federal department. and the law being administered is a federal law. the govers would be well advised to set about the business of compliance with the law as promptly and effectively as possible.
. at this point i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record three telegrams. all directed to me. the first is from philip k. lazaro. director of the essex county welfare board. the second is from lloyd w. mccorkle. commissioner of the department of institutions and agencies of the state of new jersey. the third telegram is from walter c. blaisi. essex county supervisor. c. stewart hausmann. essex county freeholder. thomas r. farley. essex county freeholder. and hymen b. mintz. essex county freeholder.
. is less federal support to our metropolitan areas to be our answer to the urban problem. are we to express our commitment to the most serious problem in our nation by accepting a bill which punishes rather than helps those who need help the most. this kind of response is  just shortsighted. for the disadvantaged and the poverty stricken. it contains the seeds of deeper disillusionment and bitterness. forcing those on welfare to bear the burden of our national confusion and frustrations will  halt the changes occurring in our society.  does it represent a responsible answer to the nations problems of race and poverty. i. therefore. urge the senate to reject the conference report and to insist on the public welfare provisions of the senate bill.
i thank the senators.  johnson recently that the number of people escaping from poverty has increased greatly since the agency initiated its programs. the program is too important to allow it to flag . recent figures indicate that just under 9 percent of the population of my state of new jersey is at the poverty level. we are proud of the fact that this is below the national average. but we are by means satisfied with the situation. new jersey is the most highly urbanized state in the union. the people of our cities have been introduced to the poverty program and it has given them hope and opportunity. it has given them faith in the american dream that people who are poor can work their way out of poverty and improve their environment. it is essential that these people be allowed to solve their own problems. but we have to provide them with the opportunity to prepare themselves for the battle. in new jersey. we have three job corps installations where youths from poor families can receive the education and training they need to establish themselves as members of the taxpaying community. we are proud of what has been accomplished. we are proud of the 74 new jersey residents who are working as vista volunteers throughout the nation and we are grateful for the 47 vista volunteers working in our state. the people of new jersey have helped themselves by planning programs with oeo. they want these programs continued. and they want to search for new solutions to the problems of poverty. we can afford to destroy their hopes and their aspirations at this point. we must provide the funds to continue present programs and to search new answers. i urge the senate to accept this amendment.
. i rise to support this amendment to restore the full funding requested by the administration for title i of the elementary and secondary education act. i support this amendment even though it makes absolutely difference in the amount of funds which will be available for the education of the children of poverty in my state of new jersey. although the $50 million restored by the senate appropriations committee has already increased the funds available to new jersey schools to the level which would be reached under this amendment. i also am concerned about ecoically deprived children in 20 other states which would be affected by this amendment. one of the highest priorities in the nation today is meaningful education for those children who stand chance of escaping from their poverty environment unless their educational needs are met. congress recognized these needs when it authorized over $2 billion to supplement special programs for children from lowincome families to help overcome their educational and cultural deficiencies. but the administration did  request the full amount of the authorization. it requested only a little over $1.5 billion. and  congress is proposing. in the name of ecoy. to reduce this even further. but this is false ecoy. if we do  meet the educational needs of children of poverty today. they will never become selfsupporting and contributing members of our future society. as i said. this amendment would make difference in the funds available to schools in my state in the next year. but state. like man. is an island. and what we do to meet the educational needs of the children of poverty anywhere in this country today. certainly will have a bearing on the tax burden new jersey residents and residents of all other states will have to pay in the future. we in new jersey are happy that the appropriations committee. on which i am privileged to serve. has seen fit to recognize the needs of schools in our state. but we also hope that the senate will demonstrate that it is aware of the high priority education deserves in all areas of our country. i urge you to accept this amendment.
the senator is correct. however. when it comes into existence. they will be cut in benefits from 50 percent to 25 percent. i see justification for putting into this program what already exists in too many programs in the welfare field.
i understand that. but we are darn well taken care of in the welfare field by standards which operate against new jersey. which is trying to keep people in decency as opposed to most states where the benefits are paid by the federal government. i am tired of having discrimination practiced against a state like new jersey by measures which. too often. have borne the name of the senator from louisiana.
. i introduce for appropriate reference a bill to eliminate the provisions of the 1967 social security amendments limiting federal financial participation in the aid to families with dependent childrenafdcprogram. the limitation. or "freeze." on federal participation in the afdc program was incorporated. at the insistence of the house of representatives. in the social security amendments approved by the congress in 1967. under the "freeze" provision. the number of children under age 18 who are eligible for afdc because of a parents "absence from home" in any state could  exceed for federal matching purposes the proportion of afdc children to all children in the state as of january 1968. in 1967 and again last year the senate voted to eliminate this provision. i was glad to cosponsor legislation last year to repeal the freeze and am happy to e that both gover hughes. of new jersey. and gover rockefeller. of new york. have joined in a cooperative effort to urge the congress to remove this provision. originally scheduled to become effective july 1. 1968. the freeze was postponed during the last session of congress for 1 year to july 1. 1969. unless the congress acts again to postpone the effective date of the amendment. or to repeal it outright. as i believe should be done. many states will be forced to assume an even greater share of welfare costs next july than they do . while i appreciate the concern of the house over the rapidly increasing welfare rolls. surely we can leave the states in their present situation. should the congress fail to act. a state which has experienced a disproportionate increase in the number of needy children compared to the total number of children will face two alternatives. it may reduce payments to all recipients so that state spending would remain approximately the same. or it may assume the total costs for all needy children who. under the freeze. longer will be eligible for federal assistance. the first alternative is unthinkable. the second is unfair to the states. since. under the law. states must provide assistance to all eligible recipients. limiting the federal governments participation in the afdc program at this time will  help reduce welfare rolls. it simply shifts to already overburdened state and local governments the responsibility for assuming a larger share of the costs of caring for the nations poor. welfare is a national problem whose causes and effects are  confined to state and local boundaries. certainly. much needs to be done. both in the immediate future and for the long range. to improve the whole welfare system. a number of thoughtful proposals have been offered and some experimental studies are underway. the results of these studies should be helpful in arriving at effective and efficient longrange solutions. in the meantime. it is essential that the afdc freeze be removed.
. i want to make it very clear what the amendment would do. the chairman of the committee has attempted to make it clear that in his judgment we would be turning over to the comptroller general the whole question of the future welfare of the united states. specifically our amendment is limited to two matters that the comptroller general himself said he could handle. they relate to statistical matters and costeffectiveness only. those are the only questions which we are asking the comptroller general to pass upon. he would be summarizing other studies purely for the benefit of congress.
. at the annual new jersey conference of mayors in atlantic city yesterday gov. william t. cahill annced that new jersey faces an imminent crisis in its welfare system as the result of a very sharp rise during the past few months in its welfare caseload. if this rate of increase continues. as seems likely. new jerseys welfare budget is estimated to go up next year by approximately 30 percent. currently approximately 8.000 cases per month are being added to the state welfare rolls. according to the state welfare director. the imposition of a limitation on the costs of administration. services. and training in public assistance programs at a time when caseloads are rising so rapidly will cause severe hardship .to new jersey and other states faced with similar problems. many of whom are already halfway through the fiscal year which the limitation would affect. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the recoad a letter i received from gover cahill this morning concerning the effect of the section 208 limitation on new jersey.
. at the recent 1970 annual meeting of the new jersey conference of mayors in atlantic city. n.j.. gover william t. cahill discussed the growing welfare crisis in new jersey and emphasized the urgent need for welfare reform. gover cahill said: we have alternative but to replace our welfare system. as soon as feasibly possible. with a program of public assistance which will more accurately reflect the realities of the present age. and which will be responsive to the fact that our nation has undergone vast changes in the decades since our system of welfare delivery was first established. new jersey is  alone in finding it more and more difficult to support a welfare system that is inefficient. costly. and discriminatory. according to recent reports from the department of health. education. and welfare. many other states have experienced a sharp caseload increase in the last 6 months. i ask unanimous consent that gover cahills address be printed in the record.
. as a cosponsor of the pending ribicoffbennett amendment. i urge the senate to act promptly to adopt the measure. the debate over welfare reform and the proposed family assistance plan has gone on in the congress for many months. before the issue reached us in the form of legislative proposals. it had been debated over a period of several years by private citizens. advisory councils. welfare directors. and state officials. . so there is lack of information on this issue.  is there any need for further study or prolonged tests of the pending proposal. or alternative proposals. to determine whether reform i needed. those who have examined existing welfare programs k the system i inefficient. unfair. and inequitable. there are national standards for either benefits or eligibility. there is nc uniformity in federal costsharing. and the administration of public assistance varies widely from state to state. as has been pointed out. what we have. in short. is really 54 different programs in 54 different jurisdictions throughout the united states. each state sets its own standard of need. each state determines who will be eligible. each state decides how much it will pay. and each state gets a different share from the federal government. is it any wonder the system is  working and the people it is supposed to help are frustrated. the continuation of a system so demonstrably inequitable and inefficient is  fair to the poor--especially those who need help and are  getting it under the categorical approachand it is  fair to states and cities. welfare is longer a local problem. we have become a highly mobile society and we have encouraged people to seek employment in urban centers where jobs and industries are located. the movement of people into cities and their inability to obtain employment. because of lack of skills and lack of opportunity. has caused welfare rolls to mushroom. most of these people have recourse but to seek help through the aid to dependent children program. in my own state of new jersey. threefourths of all our public welfare expenditures go into this program. according to gover cahill. the average monthly number of welfare recipients rose from 106.000 to 306.000 during the past 5 years. an increase of nearly 200 percent. net expenditures for this programfederal. state. and countyrose from $59 to $216 million. a rise of approximately 270 percent. and state expenditures increased from $17 to $99 million. or a rise of 500 percent. i am told that total state expenditures for welfareand medicaidare expected to increase as much as 53 percent. or $100 million. next year alone. obviously. neither new jersey  other states experiencing similar skyrocketing costs can afford to continue to bear the financial cost of what must be recognized as a national problem. help from the federal government is long overdue. the family assistance plan does  do all i think it should. but it does represent a substantial improvement over the conglomeration of the 54 programs we currently have. moreover. as  amended. fap would provide. in addition to national minimum standards and work incentives. fiscal relief to the states on a permanent basis by freezing their future welfare costs to 90 percent of their 1971 costs. the ribicoffbennett amendment is the product of weeks of effort by the administration and various members of congress to develop a fair. workable bill. it represents. i believe. the best hope of moving toward welfare reform this year. of course. even if fap is adopted. it will  provide the kind of immediate i help needed by local governments. there - will be a lag of at least 12 to 18 months before the new program is implemented by the states. during which time wel* fare costs are expected to continue to escalate. that is the reason i recently introduced an amendment to title ii of h.r. 17550 to increase the federal share of the cost of medicaid and current public assistance programs from the present minimum of 50 percent to a new minimum of 72 percent. the effect of my amendment would be to provide $2.3 billion in urgently needed federal aid to threefourths of the states. including those states bearing the heaviest burden of welfare costs. my amendment is  offered as a substitute for fap but simply as a way of providing some relief until the family assistance program. if adopted by congress. goes into effect. i hope it will be possible to vote on both the ribicoffbennett amendment and on my amendment before the senate adjourns.
 the point has been made. and i can understand the concern of the senator from alabama and that of the senator from georgia. too. about the determination of this matter exclusively by the states themselves. would it be possible to take this amendment to conference if that determination is made.  by the state. but by the secretary of agriculture. this would assure uniform application of proper criteria all over the country as a whole and eliminate the possibilities that have been suggested. that the states would take it upon themselves to do this. would that be a possibility. of taking the matter to conference. this is a matter of great importance all over the country. and particularly again in my state. there are areas there of great poverty and difficulty where the districts are  even able to handle additional smaller amounts of money. it would be very helpful if that could be done.
i k the senator from california appreciates the senator from louisianas consideration of this subject and his understanding of it. it is a problem which applies to the elements that the senator from california raises. and in a very serious way. the senator said it is the first of october when this problem is going to hit. that is what we are concerned about. if we can get an assurance from the senator that if we run into such a block on the welfare bill. or if we are  going to be able to get action on this problem in time through the vehicle of the welfare bill. and also get the assurance of the ranking miity member of the committee that we will get cooperation in meeting the problem in some other quick way. i would assume that would satisfy the needs of the situation perhaps best of all.
this is an unprinted amendment. and i shall explain its effect. . this amendment would modify the effect of sections 508 and 509 of h.r. 1. unless modified. thousands of older people. the blind and the disabled  receiving welfare aid will lose their food stamp or food commodity benefits. i do  believe this was the intention of the senate when it accepted an amendment offered on wednesday evening by senator roth. my amendment is cosponsored by senators aihen. brooke. cranston. eagleton. riscof. cook. magnuson. cooper.
that is what i am advised. this is the 20percent social security problem. it does  relate to the food stamp and commodity program. that amendment does  take care of this particular problem. i do  want to overstate or understate the matter. there is point in trying to make it something it is . i reserve the remainder of my time. .
i think the matter should be gone into by a committee expert in this field who has jurisdiction over the food stamp program. but that would be after. as the senator from vermont has said. voting for my amendment.
 last september. was designed as a 2year program at a cost of $20 million per year. it is intended as a cooperative program between physicians and people in the community. it was  intended to replace the older feeding program. indeed. the new program was to test alternative approaches that might serve as a national program. meanwhile. congress expected the older program to continue until such a nationwide infant feeding program was available to replace it. sadly. the department of agriculture has  lived up to the mandate given to it by the congress. instead of continuing the older program for mothers and infants. the department has permitted further erosion of the programeven to the point of failing in some instancesto provide crucial commodities such as powdered milk. at the same time. for 9 months the department has failed to spend one penny on the new pilot program.  the department reveals. through lower level officials. that it expects to begin the new program in about three months but that it will spend only a portion20 percentof the funds appropriated on the program. this is  egh to do a reasonable jobit will probably serve only to shore up such distribution centers as remain. hunger is still a serious problem in many urban and rural parts of the united states. there are still millions of people without a proper diet and without access to federal. state. or local food assistance. in my own state of new jersey which has a good record in providing food assistance to the needy. there are still 210.000 poor people who get food assistance whatsoever. and. in our largest city. newark. and its surrounding county. over 48.000 poor people get food assistance. while we may  be able to pinpoint exactly those who are hungry. we do see the results. for example. newark has one of the highest infant death rates in the united states. and. while malrishment is sometimes hard to recognize. over 200 children each year enter the newark public schools malrished. there are other effects as well. while we lack adequate statistics. we k malrishment can cause brain damage. mental retardation. and any number of physical disabilities. it can cause learning and behavior problems that last the life of the person. we can prevent this from taking place if we share a commitment to eradicate hunger and thereby prevent the damage to the person and to our society that hunger brings. all of us have a responsibility to help. but  it is clear. the success of these efforts lies at the door of the department of agriculture.
i thank my colleague. . i would only point out that last year the department did  use some $255 million which was appropriated for the food stamp program. i think that is a pretty shocking thing. the - year before. $368 million went unused. the extension of the food stamp program is probably the most important . provision of the whole bill. i hope when we do extend it. we will extend it effectively.
. i do  think that we need to take much more time the fact is that we are  attempting to expand the program to take care of all poverty. i wish there was some way to take care of all poverty. i do  k of any way to do that. we are trying to make the food stamp program live up to its own promise. the promise of providing a nutritionally adequate diet for people who need it. this is  done under the administration by the department of agriculture. i have been working with them for a long time. for many months. trying to get them to administer the law in accordance with what i think is the clear intention of the law. i have  been successful. that is the reason that i have joined with the senator from massachusetts in proposing this amendment. it is  for the purpose of going hog wild. but it is for the purpose of giving an adequate diet to the people who need it as the law intends.
. i rise to voice my deep concern over the regulations just promulgated by the department of agriculture concerning participation by puerto rican households in the food stamp program. these regulations discriminate against some of our poorest citizens who are in greatest need of this program. in what amounts to a double assault on the rights of poor people in puerto rico. the department of agriculture has set arbitrarily lower eligibility standards and coupon allotments for the island. this runs counter to the statutory language of the 1971 amendments to the food stamp act. which for the first time authorized participation by puerto rico. and the territories. in this program. the law states that the "eligibility" schedule is to "reflect the average per capita income" in the respective territories so long as such eligibility does  exceed the eligibility standards established for the 50 states. thus. under the law. one simply should multiply the household size by the per capita income of the territory to come up with the eligibility figure. should this figure exceed the eligibility standard set for the 50 states. it is required that the national eligibility standard wil apply. in the case of puerto rico. however. the agriculture department has set a much lower standard of eligibility than the u.s. standard. totally in violation of the statutory provision. coupon allotments. which determine how much money the family will actually have available for food purchasing. are one of the most important aspects of the program. according to the law. the coupon allotments for the respective territories are to reflect the "cost of obtaining a nutritionally adequate diet." because this is precisely the principle that applies to the allotments for the 50 states. a comparison of united states and puerto rican food stamp allotments must be based on the comparative food costs between the 50 states and puerto rico. if food costs are higher in puerto rico. then coupon allotments for the island can be lower. yet. although we are told that food costs in puerto rico are 20 percent higher than they are in the united states. the agriculture secretary has nevertheless decided to establish coupon allotments that are well below the allotments for the 50 states. they provide. for example. $122 monthly for a family of four instead of the $142 provided to a mainland family. i urge the secretary to recall these schedules and issue eligibility and coupon allotments which are in keeping with the statutory requirements. discrimination against our poorest people must  be allowed to continue. the food stamp program is vital to their health and wellbeing. the residents of puerto rico are entitled to the full benefits of this program. since the food stamp program must be fully implemented throughout puerto rico by june 30. 1974. it is important that the secretary act quickly to assure that puerto rican poor people receive the food stamps to which they are entitled by the end of the fiscal year 1974 deadline.
. i am happy to join in sponsoring senator mcgoverns amendments to the food stamp act. a year and a half ago i proposed an amendment to the farm bill designed to insure that people would receive adequate benefits under the food stamp program. my proposal was agreed to by the congress and is  a part of the law. specifically. my amendment required the face value of coupon allotments to be adjusted to meet current food costs semiannually. rather than on an annual basis. previously. the department of agriculture adjusted food stamp allotments only once a year. which was far from sufficient with food prices rising at rates of 10 to 20 percent annually. this change to semiannual adjustment was designed to help needy consumers if food prices continued to go up. and as we are all painfully aware. food prices have continued to climb. the food stamp program is vital to the health and wellbeing of millions of americans. its purpose is to insure a nutritionally adequate diet through a couponpurchase plan whereby needy households pay a portion of their income for a higher value in food stamps.  the administration is threatening to cut back the food stamp program at the very moment when the need for it is greater than at any time since the thirties. through proposed regulations published in the federal register. the agriculture department would increase the cost of food stamps beginning the 1st of march. 1 under the proposed regulations. the maximum amount many elderly people will have to pay for $46 a month in food stamps will be increased from $33 to $43. in a typical case. a widow of 60 who receives social security benefits of $105 a month can  buy $46 worth of food stamps for $18. under the proposed regulations. she would have to pay $31 for the same amount of food stamps. and in some cases. the cost of food stamps to the purchaser would more than double. this administrative action by the department of agriculture threatens the wellbeing of millions of americans. it certainly goes against the intent of congress in previous food stamp legislation. my own belief is that this is  an area for decreased federal spending at this time. cutbacks in the food stamp program would place a cruel burden on the poor and the elderly living on fixed incomes. most have already been forced to reduce their diets to the bare minimum. many are  even currently able to include such foods as hamburger. chicken. eggs. milk. and fresh vegetables in their diet. we can ask the very groups of people who are least able to afford a bare minimum to cut back further. the bill also would make permanent and extend to all states a section of current law which temporarily allows ssisupplemental security incomerecipients to participate in the food stamp program. i joined a number of my colleagues in writing to the department of agricultuie soon after the proposed regulations were published. it was our hope that the department would reconsider its position. unfortunately. the department has  done so. it is my strong hope that congress will act in a timely manner to prevent the regulations from going into effect on march 1. as scheduled. this administration can in conscience act in such an inhumane way to the poor and elderly of this country.
. legislation to prevent the proposed increase in the price of food stamps is  before us. and it is particularly gratifying to me that congress is taking action on this matter in such a timely fashion. as i have said repeatedly. cutbacks in the food stamp program would place a cruel burden on the poor and the elderly. most of whom have already been forced to reduce their diets to a bare minimum. we can ask the very groups of people who are least able to afford it to cut back further. in new jersey. the department of institutions and agencies has just completed its food stamp outreach campaign through which eligible families and aged individuals are urged to claim the food stamp benefits to which they are entitled. the state has experienced a 43percent rise in the number of publicassistance households receiving food stamps. and there has been an 8percent increase in the number of welfare recipients participating in the food stamp program. i hope the senate will act favorably today to keep the cost of food stamps from going up. and i hope it will do so by an overwhelming majority.
. administration officials have informally advised me and other members of congress of their intention to make a new military assistance contract with saudi arabia. the $2 billion contract. as i understand it. would provide housing. construction. maintenance and training. primarily in connection with the f5 jet fighter planes we are selling saudi arabia. the senate on ember 5 passed the international development and food assistance acth.r. 9005containing my amendment prohibiting assistance to countries under the military assistance program which discriminate against americans working on the contracts there because of their race. religion and sex. i can help but wonder whether the administrations delay in formally submitting the ice of intent of the latest contract proposal with saudi arabia is  related to possible efforts to kill my amendment. it is important that the conference committee on the h.r it would be unconscionable for our own government to acquiesce in discrimination against our own citizens. if other nations want our technical help. they should  be allowed to force us into allowing discrimination against our own citizens. support for the principle of discrimination is important  only in itself but because of the growing numbers of americans involved in saudi arabia projects. before 1973. less than 8.000 americans were in saudi arabia. . there are more than 16.000. the new projects may well add thousands. to give an indication of the growing american involvement. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record an article by james mccartney of the knight newspaper service reporting that the total agreements with saudi arabia are reaching $9 billion.
. the increased cost of government is naturally a concern to all of us who pay taxes. and it is easy to focus on visible programs with kn abuses. and demand that they be cut back or even eliminated. i am speaking particularly of our food stamp program. there have been a number of press reports in recent months concerning alleged abuses of the food stamp program. some of which were later shown to be false. one news article claimed that a family with a net income of $16.000 could be eligible for food stamps. that even executives could qualify for the program. if that were true. i would be incensed. too. etheless. it can be denied that there have been abuses. the senate agriculture committee  has before it a number of proposals to make substantial changes in the food stamp program. i am a cosponsor of the bill introduced by senators dole and mcgovern. s. 2451. because i believe it best meets the objectives of providing food assistance to those who need it most. while reducing the cost of the food stamp program by decreasing its administrative cost and the possibilities for error. the bill would establish a mandatory standard deduction of $125 to replace the existing complicated maze of deductions in arriving at net income. the present system has resulted in some households participating in the program when. in fact. they should  have been certified. this legislation would eliminate the socalled purchase requirement. resulting in tremendous savings in administrative cost. .possibly as much as $100 million annually. an eligible family would receive food stamps only in the amount of the present bonus and would  be required to purchase stamps in order to receive this bonus. at current prices. i think it is realistic to assume that a family of four is going to spend $138 on groceries each month and does  need coupons to make sure that the money is going for groceries. in order to qualify for $24 in bonus coupons. elimination of the purchase requirement should also help to decrease the black market in food stamps. a substantial reduction in the number of food stamps in circulation will decrease the opportunities for chicanery. in addition. this bill would prohibit participation in the food stamp program by students who are listed as dependents on tax returns by parents who are  themselves eligible for food stamps. under existing law. welfare recipients are automatically eligible to purchase food stamps. this has resulted in discriminatory treatment of welfare and welfare food stamp recipients in some states where people receive food stamps at income levels which would disqualify them for food stamps were they  receiving public assistance funds. income and resources should be treated the same in all the states. this legislation would drop the automatic eligibility of welfare recipients. with an estimated savings of some $120 million annually. there is little disagreement on the need for the food stamp program. but there is disagreement on how the program should operate and on the income levels to be eligible for it. and everyone would agree that the abuses which have been shown to exist in the food stamp program should be eliminated. unfortunately. other proposals before the senate agriculture committee. while also substantially reducing costs. would drastically and inhumanely remove people. particularly elderly people. from the program. i hope that the senate agriculture committeee will look with favor on the approach taken in s. 2541. in my view we should  deny those living in or on the verge of poverty the opportunity to purchase a nutritionally adequate diet for themselves and their families.
. the increased cost of government is naturally a concern to all of us who pay taxes. and it is easy to focus on visible programs with kn abuses. and demand that they be cut back or even eliminated. i am speaking patricularly of our food stamp program. there have been a number of press reports in recent months concerning alleged abuses of the food stamp program. some of which were later shown to be false. one advertisement claimed that a family with a net income of $16.000 could be eligible for food stamps. that even executives could qualify for the program. if that were true. i would be incensed. too. etheless. there have been abuses. and they should be eliminated. the senate agriculture committee  has before it a number of proposals to make substantial changes in the food stamp program. i am a cosponsor of the bill introduced by senators dole and mcgovern. s. 2451. because i believe it best meets the objectives of providing food assistance to those who need it most. while reducing the cost of the food stamp program by cutting its administrative cost and the possibilities for error. the bill would establish a mandatory standard deduction of $125 to replace the existing complicated maze of deductions in arriving at net income. the present system has resulted in some households participating in the program when. in fact. they should  have been certified. the legislation would eliminate the socalled purchase requirements. resulting in tremendous savings in administrative costs. possibly as much as $100 million annually. an eligible family would receive food stamps only in the amount of the present bonus and would  be required to purchase stamps in order to receive the bonus. elimination of the purchase requirement should also help to decrease the black market in food stamps. a substantial reduction in the number of food stamps in circulation will decrease the opportunities for chicanery. in addition. this bill would prohibit participation in the food stamp program by students who are listed as dependents on tax returns by parents who are  themselves eligible for food stamps. under existing law. welfare recipients are automatically eligible to purchase food stamps. this has resulted in discriminatory treatment of welfare and welfare food stamp recipients in some states where people are receiving food stamps at income levels which would disqualify them for food stamps if they were  receiving public assistance funds. income and resources should be treated the same in all the states. this legislation would drop the automatic eligibility of welfare recipients. with an estimated savings of some $120 million annually. unfortunately. other proposals before the senate agriculture committee. while also substantially reducing costs. would drastically lower the eligibility standards to eliminate many people from the program. in my view this would be inhumane because it would hit the elderly the hardest. i hope that the senate agriculture committee will look with favor on the approach taken in s. 2451. we should  deny those living on the verge of poverty the opportunity to purchase a cxx2548part 31 nutritionally adequate diet for themselves and their families.
i reciprocate completely by saying that he has done. as he always does. a tremendous job in this area. and has been most helpful. ody can doubt senator humphreys devotion to such causes as civil rights. his compassionate interests in the welfare of human beings everywhere in the world. so. when he says that this or that method of dealinf with a problem is better than aher everyone ks that it is based upon hi. honest judgment. and that that judg. ment is entitled to be given the heaviesi weight. i happen to agree with him or - the substantive matters contained in th( r bill. the senior senator from minnesota has covered this ground very well indeed and i do  think it is necessary or ap. propriate to take the time of the senate to duplicate his explanation of the bill contained in the committee report in s very detailed fashion. and very fairly set - forth. the controversial mattersand there are such in hereare presented in a way that will give all our colleagues. i think. every possible and every reasonable aspect to consider in reaching their conclusions on the matter presented by the measure and the controversial issues that it contains. for myself. i think the subcommittee and the full committee on foreign relations have arrived at reasonable and right decisions. there are certain aspects of the bill i would like to emphasize. it is easy. because it is a tremendously large package. to be blinded by the big dollar signs and the flashy aspects of certain of the controversial issues. such as human rights. it is certainly true that the $5.225 million the bill authorizes or will authorize if we approve it and it becomes law. is a great deal of money. some of us are  quite as devoted as others are to the use of multilateral aid or manysided aid. but it is a useful channel. i think. . an exigency of some importancenamely. the need for a quorum on the appropriations committeehas been called to my attention. being a member of that committee. i feel responsibility to do what i can to alleviate the tension that may exist downstairs and the concern. i suggest the absence of a quorum.
. today when we are struggling with the problem of civil rights. socialwelfare legislation. and the effort to keep the world from being divided by violent war into two worlds instead of the one world which he conceived. the words of wendell willkie take on the same permanent and universal significance that we associate with the words of abraham lincoln. mr. willkie said: there are distant points in the world any longerour thinking in the future must be worldwide. we must establish beyond all doubt the equality of men. the world is awakening at last to the kledge that the rule of people by other people is  freedom. freedom is an indivisible wordwe must be prepared to extend it to everyone. whether they are rich or poor. whether they agree with us or . matter what their race or the color of their skin. the only soil in which liberty can grow is that of a united peoplewe :must have faith that the welfare of one is the welfare of allwe must ackledge that all are equal before god and before the law. the editorial i refer to follows: [from the indianapolis news of october
 has declared a national emergency under the tafthartley law. in two of them. the meatpacking case and the telephone case. injunction was sought. in the coal dispute of march 1948 involving the miners welfare fund. an injunction was issued on april 3. the strike. however. continued until april 12. when it was annced that a new neutral trustee had been appointed and that he and mr. lewis had approved a plan under which the welfare fund might be activated. thereupon the miners went back to work. in the three remaining cases injunctions were issued. but the disputes were  settled in the 80day period. and in each case the injunction was discharged at the end of that period. leaving the workers free to strike. in the atomicenergy case. under the tremendous pressure of the national interest in the atomicenergy program. the parties continued their negotiations without a strike and. with the assistance of the federal mediation and conciliation service. finally negotiated an agreement. in the westcoast maritime case the injunction was discharged at the end of the 80day period. and the strike was called and continued for over 3 months. in the eastcoast maritime case the 80day period also expired without settlement. and the longshoremen were on strike for several weeks. * 6 * 0 0 since the tafthartley law does  extend protection by injunction beyond the coolingoff period. the real question that arises on comparison of the tafthartley act with the proposal  under consideration by this committee is merely the question whether the injunction is a good or necessary means of preventing a strike during the coolingoff period. i think all the evidence is to the contrary. in case in which an injunction issued under the tafthartley law has there been settlement of the controversy during any coolingoff period. on the other hand. the provisions of the railway labor act. which are the pattern for the substitute  proposed. have never failed in any significant case to secure the coolingoff period of 60 days. i think the reason is that an injunction compelling a man to work even temporarily for a private employerand that is the practical effect of the tafthartley injunctionsmeets with bitter and profound resentment among freemen. if in any case the coolingoff period of the proposed substitute should be violated. the country would be confronted only by the same kind of revived national emergency that confronts us when under the tafthartley act the 80day period expires without settlement of the dispute. thus. the injunctions devised to support the coolingoff period is an irritant during that period and is  available if the emergency persists after that period. i believe that this amendment is necessary and should be adopted.
i have taken this matter up with the commissioner of public welfare of the state of new york. new york state believes there should be ceiling. the proposal  before the senate represents a compromise position. if the amendment is adopted. a ceiling will be placed on the amount. i also point out to my friends from the smaller- states that the federal government pays a proportion of their public assistance. hence. if the state of new york tried to do. as it does try to do. an efficient job. with a population of 17 million. it would be helping a far greater number of people and the cost would represent greater ecoy than is represented by the amount provided for the administration.
. ours is becoming increasingly a consumers ecoy. both in terms of consumption and in terms of production. because so many of our people are owners of industry. through stockholdings. through pension and welfare funds. and through mutual insurance companies and savings banks. this is the destination toward which america is destined to go. therefore. i hope very much that we may improve and develop further the services we offer. in order to facilitate that progress.
 more than 20 national organizations of negro women joined the council and developed programs relating to education. health. social welfare. youth. human relations. international problems. citizenship education. and religious fellowship. there are today 22 national organizations affiliated with the national council of negro women. these organizations represent a cross section of negro women and engage in such worthwhile programs as prevention and elimination of juvenile delinquency. in the improvement of business and professional standards. in human and civil rights. in adult education. in providing library services. camp opportunities. national and international scholarships. recreation for children and adults. christian education and missionary work. improvements in rural life. in the development of new careers and the inspiration of finer womanhood. hundreds of local groups. affiliates of the national organizations have made extraordinary contributions to better living on grassroots levels. the demonstrated strength as well as the accomplishments of these national organizations of negro women is composite proof of the vitality and importance of womens organizations. unified in the national council of negro women they are the bulwark of the organizational structure. local councils are organized in 90 communities and these groups consist of members of local chapters of national affiliates to carry out civic. social. and welfare programs on the local level. some of these programs are the development of concern for local and school problems and the development of interest in education. provide for nursery care for working mothers. stimulate interest in voting. local issues and candidates. initiate meetings and conferences where women of both races can think and plan together on matters afiecting the welfare of the community and the education of the population as to the work and accomplishments of the united nations. one example of the effectiveness of the national council of negro women was the interracial conference held as a part of the annual convention on ember 14 and 15. 1956. at the willard hotel in washington. d. c. thirtytwo national organizations sent delegates and a most informative and inspiring series of roundtable discussions were held on problems in america today involving the races. in addition to the local councils. junior councils are organized where young women between the ages of 16 to 22 carry out the national council program commensurate with their interest and age.
i ice a statement in the report which might prove to be very important in connection with the legislative intent in connection with this proposed legislation. if the chairman will permit me. i shall read it. i am sure the chairman of the committee will approve it as a statement of the legislative intent. i refer to the language on page 6. in the middle of the second full paragraph. reading as follows: it is the intention of the committee that the distribution of this remainder will be made in a fair and equitable manner. without any prescribed numerical limitations for any particular group. according to the showing of hardship. persecution. and the welfare of the united states.
let me make this clear. because i think it is due the senator from colorado. with respect to the senators position on the meeting of the welfare fund situation. i feel that the senator is as deeply sincere as i or any other member of this chamber. i thought i had very clearly separated my remarks as between the legal point on the amendment and my general views upon the bill. i wish to make that crystal clear. the senator from colorado is to my kledge one of the most devoted men in terms  only of honesty but of the most scrupulous ethics involved in this field. i k he is pursuing the subject with diligence and learning. which is typical of him. in a deep determination to do exactly what i am trying to do. except that the senator has his own way of doing it.
i may say to the senator from massachusetts. to show how uncertain things are. that this was exactly the force of the argument he made about the pension and welfare fund bill. when he was pleading for the point that we should let the bill pass without amendment. and then to take up the amendments in the committee.
. first i wish to state that i intend to support the amendment of my colleague from kentucky . and my colleague from new mexico . because i think it is the logical next step in what we have been trying to do for the past week. it is fair to say that this is the "last clear chance." as the courts say. that we shall have to do anything meaningful about the number of senators who can cut off a filibuster. the debate on succeeding amendments will go to the question of what other congresses can do. i believe this is the last clear opportunity in this congress to do anything meaningful about actually dealing with the question in practical terms. the figures have already been stated. they are very interesting. if we were to apply the mortoncooper proposal. 8 out of the last 22 filibusters since 1922 could have been shut off. as compared with 9 which might have been cut off had the douglas proposal. which was rejected. been in effect. this proposal is what the lawyers call de mihimis. in terms of what should be done by this congress. what is of great significance. in terms of the mortoncooper proposal. is that it would have succeeded in invoking cloture in respect to two civil rights bills. that is the field in which it really means something. as i have said. this is the last clear opportunity that will mean something. the votes to which i refer were on may 19. 1950. and july 12. 1950. those were votes on very mild fair employment practices bills. i happened to vote on them in the other body. as did my colleague from kentucky i believe. in this body the threat to impose cloture was decided in one case by a vote of 52 to 32. and in the other case by a vote of 55 to 33. those two motions would have been successful if the rule had been as it is  proposed by the senator from kentucky to make it. i mention that fact. because it goes to the question of a fractional majority imposing cloture. in that case. on may 19. 1950. the will of a decisive majority of the senate was defeated by a vote of 52 members out of 96. on july 12. 1950. the question was decided by the votes of 55 out of 96. the calculated judgment of the majority was completely frustrated because they could  succeed in having a cloture motion adopted. and hence those bills had to be laid aside. i repeat. that this is the last clear chance to do anything practical about actually effecting cloture against a filibuster. which frustrates the will of the majority. and results in the rejection or laying aside of proposed legislation which a majority wishes to pass. i sincerely believe that the power of the filibuster represents an extraconstitutional power in a miity which was never contemplated by the founding fathers. and which is inconsistent with the welfare of our country. i very much hope. therefore. that the excellent amendment of my colleagues from kentucky. upon which i compliment them. will represent a reasonable compromise which can be adopted by this body.
i am  given to long windedness. i hope i shall  be today. it seems to me that the fundamental question to which we are addressing ourselves really is a question of ideology in terms of the american people. and there. i think. it relates to the modernism of the ideas we espouse. i think the people are very much interested in the modern ideas of particular men who represent a particular period. i think they are very much interested in the efforts being made on the republican side to show how we can demonstrate that the private ecoy can work best in the public interest. on the democratic side. i think the particular forte of the democrats with the american people has been. very largely. in the welfare field. but that is something which they must push and drive. i do  draw the same deductions as does the senator from texas that this is in the form of a particular national mandate or.the form of policies of the senators party.
i should like to ask the senator a question about the shelter program. as i see it. $2.500.000. which is the same amount as the house provided. is provided for prototype shelters. but i ice also that there has been an increase to $2 million for additional research and development. that appears on page 2 of the report. i ask the senator if it is within the contemplation of the committee that any part of that sum might be used for research to improve shelter design.
i entirely agree with the senator from oregon. i very much hope that the conferees will pay serious attention to the human welfare issue which is involved. and will vest authority in the department of health. education. and welfare. if it is to be vested in any government agency.
certainly. . i k one of our colleagues has something to present to the senate. so i shall suggest the absence .of a quorum. but before i do so. i ask unanimous consent to have included in the record at this point the statement by arthur s. flemming. secretary of health. education. and welfare on this subject.
i thank the senator from louisiana. as long as he has interjected this fine bit of information. i would say that he touched a chord last night that was extraordinary. what he said was. "what did you do when the social security system came into effect. did you cover folks who had paid hing." of course we did . only 4 percent of those who were over 65 on august 14. 1935. when the social security system took effect. participated in the system. because congress imposed strict rules as to eligibility based upon a payment of at least six quarters of coverage. of the 7.957.000 persons aged 65 or over in the united states. only 4 percent. or 340.000. who were over 65 participated in the system when it was first established. i think that is a significant point. as it bears upon the fact that this does  do any such thing. this embodies them all right into the system and lets the rest pay the bill. this is the big difference between myself and those on the other side. i say. certainly. we have a responsibility for the aged. but it is a responsibility of all of us.  merely of the people who pay social security taxes. let us all pay the bill. let us all pay the bill for welfare both in the states and in the federal government. one other point which i think is very important has just come up in the debate. when the federal government decided to adopt a plan for its employees. one would have thought it would pick the best and wisest plan for them. what plan did it pick. it picked the kind of plan i am  advocating. the employees contribute just about half the cost of the low option plan. they contribute something like fiveeighths of the cost of the high option plan. the coverage is bought from private agencies. the federal government selected exactly the plan i am advocating. i think that is significant when we discuss whether this proposal is a gimmick for a campaign year or is a deeply entertained plan based on honest conviction. i think this is the clincher. one has yet stood up and stated whether it is 85 percent or 90 percent of the older people. or 84 percent or 93 percent. the fact is that the overwhelming majority of the older people do  need 120 days in a hospital. what they need is the kind of care they will get under my program. they need the care of physicians and the care of nurses. they need ambulatory and xray services. they need drugs. they do  need 120 days in a hospital. in other words. we will legislate a plan for 10. 15. or 16 percent of the aged. instead of a plan for 85 or 90 percent simply because it is felt that they should come under social security. i am as good a liberal as any other senator. i do  have to get it under social security. i can use my head and my 11 years of experience in congress to find a better way. . i ask unanimous consent that there may be a quorum call. the time for the quorum call to be charged to neither side.
if community in vermont qualifies. then the purpose of the bill would  be served by extending the program to vermont. after all. some argument can be made for aid to agriculture. which extensively helps other states. it could be made for aid to dependent children. and aid in almost any category of welfare we could conceive of. if vermont is that prosperousand i am happy it isit is paying out far more than it is receiving. my colleague from new york and i k how much more new york is paying out than it is receiving. but that is reason why one should  support a program of such great ecoic breadth for the benefit of the entire country.
the senator does  expecti k he does . and i say this only to have it clear on the recordto have these programs operated separately. but that they are to be coordinated as a unit program. with the federal government helping education. the senator certainly does  expect the department of health. education. and welfare to operate the three programs in different receptables. one unrelated to aher.
i thank the senator from alabama. i am delighted that we have so fine a spokesman and so good an influence in such a key spot on the subcommittee on department of health. education. and welfare appropriations. it is secret that the reason why we are acting today. instead of laying the bill over to some other day. perhaps much later in the session. is that implicit in the presentation is the fact that i shall  press my amendment. for i am really in accord with the eloquent words of the senator from pennsylvania in trying to have the bill passed by the senate. however. the purpose of my statement today is to have the public understand why we are taking this action. when the bill gets to the house we do  want the house to say. "oh. well. this is aher one of those spendthrift programs which the senate liberals are sending to us." the house will realize that we have exercised a great sense of restraint and a great sense of discipline in a common effort to get something done. and that senators in that way. i think we shall have the respect of the house of representatives. in order to accomplish that purpose. and so that our views on the subject may be clear. i ask unanimous consent to have printed at the end of my remarks the proposed amendment to the bill. which i shall  offer for the reasons which i have just stated.
. will the senator from oklahoma allow me to ask a question. which i think may help in this regard. i have received. just as have my colleague from new york and the senator from ohio . a number of expressions of concern by welfare agencies as to the provisions of the bill which the senator from oklahoma has been discussing. they have suggested the inclusion in the bill of an amendment which would provide that a child placed in a foster home shall. whenever practicable. be placed with persons of the same religious faith. or with an authorized agency under the control of persons of the same religious faith as that of the child. i am aware that the bill provides that a child shall be eligible for such assistance only if it is placed in a foster home as the result of a judicial determination to the effect that a continuation of placement in the home of an eligible relative would be contrary to the best interests of the child. and that such placement shall be the responsibility of the state agency administering the state plan for aid to dependent children. therefore. i should like to establish as a part of the legislative history of this provision that there is hing in the bill which would change or interfere with any existing state law or policy. or with any future state law or policy. regarding the placement of children covered by the act in foster homes. and that the policy of the federal government to avoid participation or direction as to any such state policy is to be continued in the administration of this provision if it becomes a part of the bill. i ask the distinguished senator from oklahoma if that is his understanding of these provisions.
i believe. also. that the whole educational system of the united states must be bucked up. and must be bucked up very materially. particularly in those very states which in my opinion in many respects have denied it in terms of the outlook in the united states. i believe we need federal law. i do  believe executive action alone will succeed. president kennedy. matter how deeply interested he is in this subjectand i agree he isand diligent and forceful. he must have legislation. he must stop appeasing the south and come to congress and ask congress to back this effort. as he has tried to do with federal marshals. that will  be made or unmade by what we do with the pending amendment. what will be made or unmade by the amendment is whether or  the federal aid to education bill passes. at least in that connection i want to score on one. instead of scoring a zero on two. in closing i wish to point out that the amendment which my colleague from new york will present is  to be describedof course my colleague understands that i am  trying to characterize itas a powelltype amendment. it will give authority to test whether the commissioner of education and the secretary of health. education. and welfare are proceeding in accordance with the constitution. as the law stands today. it is doubtful that a taxpayer could bring about a test unless we provide that authority. senator keating will explain his amendment. i wish to pay tribute to him for having thought up the idea for a most effective way in which to deal with the problem in terms of people like myself who want to get at least one thing nailed down. and that is by getting a bill for federal aid to education. if we can get legislation right away. at this moment. on desegregation of the schools. i want at least to get one bill. if i can have both.
second. madam president. there would be federal control over local educational systems under the terms of the bill. we fought that issue out thoroughly. i believe there will  be control. i shall certainly reserve the right to fight against it if any evidence of it appears. third. i do  agree with the opinion of the secretary of health. education. and welfare as to the use of any of this money for school districts which are in direct defiance of the constitutional mandate for desegregation of schools involving also court orders which may be outstanding against those districts. i feel perfectly free to fight against that. i am confident i am correct as to the law. and that the attorney general will take that view of the law. and therefore i do  consider this to be a reason to vote against the bill. fourth. i think we have a good faith obligation to the parochial and private schools. to the parents and teachers involved. to enact legislation tailored to their needs based on the national defense education act. as one member of the subcommittee on education and of the committee on labor and public welfare i shall devote every talent i have to bringing about that result very promptly upon the heels of enactment of the bill before the senate for federal aid to education. i think the national interest is such that we have all had to weigh many points of view and many ideas. as i have said a number of times before. in order to keep our eyes on the main point. which is. at long last. crowning with success the effort for federal aid to education. so essential to the national interest.
yes. because these projects in new york have been cooperative. in short. the sponsors of these projects in new york have. in a number of cases. developed the ownership of the individual unit upon the individual occupant. by arrangement with him. this shows the flexibility of this arrangement. so. again. this shows that we are dealing with an actuality. rather than an experiment. therefore. i see reason why it could  be applied to the entire nation. although this program in new york originated under gover dewey. it has also been developed during the administration of gover harriman. a democrat. and  during the administration of gover rockefeller. so i believe the program has shown its durability in terms of political sponsorship. but i say to the senator from new jerseyand i do  think i am suspected of blind partisanship. after all these yearsthat i am quite proud to be presenting this program. because i think the senator from new jersey. the senator from kentucky. and others of us take great pride in being able to present alternatives which will truly do the job the people need to have done. and at the same time will have greater consideration for the private enterprise system and its place in terms of performing better for the welfare of the people than would be doneand i think this is evidentunder many of the administrations programs. which have come from the other side of the aisle. so i think this is a splendid illustration of what that principle. which we have often stated. actually means in practice.
. recently there has arisen a matter which concerns my state and which has  assumed national conations. and i should like to address the senate briefly with respect to it. it concerns the 13 welfare rules annced by the city of newburgh. n.y. the matter has  had consideration by the secretary of health. education. and welfare. indeed. my colleague. senator keating. and i and members of the house of representatives conferred with him only the other day about certain of the principles which are involved. a statement has been made with respect to it by the senator from arizona . it certainly seems to have caught the imagination of the press. because it affects my state. and as i am a member
. we have discussed the welfare rules of newburgh in the senate with contrary views from myself and others. we  have a dispassionate and objective appraisal of the situation in newburgh by eve edstrom. staff reporter of the washington post. in the sunday. august 6. 1961. issue of the washington post. i am glad to say. miss edstrom bears out the position of people like myself that though the motivation for what newburgh did was understandable. in the main it was in a direction which was contrary to the concepts which we have today. and was on the whole justified by the basic and underlying facts in newburgh itself. i ask unanimous consent that an article entitled "newburgh is a mirror reflecting on us all." by eve edstrom. published in the washington post on august 6. 1961. be printed at this point in my remarks.
i am very grateful to my colleague. i add. it is estimated that the city of new york is responsible for nearly 15 percent of the total revenues in the united states. we are  arguingas we have toabout some $300.000 for planning money in terms of the general welfare and the need for representative action in our greatest city. . i really think it is sad that my colleague and i have to be put in this position. and especially that the city of new york has to be put in this position.
. the editorial states that newburgh itself has  declared. in papers filed with the new york supreme court. its intention to conform with state and federal rules governing public welfare. and has eliminated the most objectionable and regressive provision of its code. namely. that which would have cut off relief for children born out of wedlock. i feel certain that the social welfare commissioner of the state of new york will keep close watch on events at newburgh. however. i think it is a very interesting augury. after all the talk. that newburgh has  conformed to what are tough provisions of the new york state and the federal law. and that to be tougher is to be inhumane. newburgh has  realized that itself. or at least the courts have brought about that realization.
. i send to the desk an amendment to the bill to extend and improve the public assistance and child welfare service programs of the social security act. and for other purposes. the amendment relates to a review of certain administrations under the social security act. title 7. relating to relations between the federal government and the states in the public welfare matters. i ask unanimous consent that the text of the amendment be printed as a part of my remarks.
the senator from new mexico will correct me if i am in error. but i would say that the government will have full authority within the terms of the law. the answer to the question. "can anyone qualify who can meet the terms of the law." is "yes." the government would have complete authority as to the arrangement which is made. in toto. but that does  necessarily mean that the department will audit every claim. that would apply whether it involved blue cross. an insurance company. or a pension and welfare fund. therefore. the arrangement would be entirely with the government and entirely under the jurisdiction of the secretary. that does  mean that he would audit every claim.
the senator has opened the window for me. and i would like. if i might. to get the problem in focus for the purpose of this discussion. the senator ks as well as i do that i would  press such an amendment in the face of the senators objection.  could i expect the senate to approve it. that is quite proper. the senator is in charge of the bill. and it is  the kind of amendment that i should press for. the senator is in charge of the bill on the floor. and although he can bind the committee. what he would say about it would have great effect. may i ask the senator this question. we are talking about states. if a state. through its senator. requested. as a matter of legislative oversight by the finance committee. a review of a decision by the department of health. education. and welfare of a particular determination which it felt was unjust. would the senator have the right to assure his state that there was a real assurance that it would get the reviewat least. that it would get a hearing before a proper committee of the senate to review what a state an individual senatorfelt was an unfair determination by the secretary.
i have also had an amendment submitted generally on the same subject. and i would like to be sure that when the amendment of the senator from tennessee is adopted. as the chairman of the committee has graciously indicated he would do. we have actually effected the result we want. my amendment provided that a drug may be withdrawn from experimental use when substantial ground exists for doubt as to its safety. the amendment of the senator from tennessee  pending provides prior approval of the plans. does the chairman of the committee concur with the secretary of health. education. and welfare that he  has the power to withdraw the drug from experimental use if he finds that it is unsafe. as contemplated in the senators amendment.
so. . i emphasize for senators who will vote on this matter on tuesday that we are  talking about eleemosynary questions. this is a matter of hard reality. and in terms of the welfare workload. as legislators. we would definitely prefer that people be given the opportunity to have the dignity of earning their own living. and have their own money on which to rely. than to be on welfare. this is one way we can encourage that.
 so that i may ask a question of the senator from connecticut. i have been engaged in the tfx hearings. i believe the welfare concept for which the senator is contending is the right and necessary one. and i shall have the privilege of supporting his amendment.
. under section 4 of s. 432. the secretary of health. education. and welfare is authorized to make grants directly to local air pollution control agencies without the concurrence. approval or consultation of the states in which the local recipients of federal funds are located. the deep concern that the state air pollution agencies might be bypassed by direct allocation of funds by the federal government to local air pollution agencies is reflected in the report of the senate public works committee on this bill and in the testimony before the special subcommittee on air and water pollution. the public works committee specifically recognized and dealt with the problem of the local agencies bypassing the state by stating at page 8 of its report on s. 432: the committee would expect. however. that in the administration of this program. the department will take precautions to insure that a grant will be made only after appropriate consideration has been given to the views of the state air pollution control authority (where such a state authority exists) with respect to the particular program for which a grant is sought. secretary celebrezze recognized the problem in testifying before the subcommittee at page 72 of the subcommittee record of hearings that: i would recommend that we be permitted to make grants directly to local communities with the state. of course. taking an active part. edward michaelian. county executive of westchester county. n.y.. representing the counties of the united states. expressed his concern over the bypassing of the states in the allocation of funds when he testified at page 132 of the record of hearings that: it is my personal opinion that the state should be a party to such interlocal agreements. acting in a supervisory capacity subsequent to the receipt of a grant for assistance or a grantinaid from the federal government. new york state. however. is sufficiently concerned with this problem to feel that the requirement for coordination between local and state air pollution control agencies be expressly provided for in the bill. i am. therefore. introducing an amendment to prohibit the allocation of funds under section 4 of the bill until the secretary of health. education. and welfare has consulted with the appropriate officials as designed by the gover or govers of the state or states affected. in view of the fact that only onethird of the states have established programs to deal with air pollution. it is evident that all states do  have state air pollution control agencies with whom the secretary of hew may consult. it is intended that the secretary of hew would. in good faith. consult with the appropriate official designated as responsible for air pollution control matters by the gover or govers of the state or states in which the local agencies receiving the funds are located. my amendment is thus intended to require that the work of the local agencies. receiving federal funds. be coordinated with the state agencies to insure an effective air pollution program and to prevent duplication of effort. after full discussion with the senator from maine and others interested in the bill. it is our feeling that the provision for consultation satisfies the previously stated requirements and provides adequate safeguards for the problems i have depicted. i hope that the chairman of the subcommittee and the senate will consider the amendment favorably.
. i am happy to join with my quest of the gover of the concerned colleague the distinguished senior senastate. either to assist the state in bring- tor from new york in offering these ing abatement proceedings under local amendments. i would likerto take this law in state courts or to request the amendmnts. al d lo tae the u.s atorey o rin prcedinsin a opportunity. also. to compliment the federal district court. this amendment junior senator from connecticut [mr. would be consistent with the policy of maine for their diligent 5. 432 as expressed in section 1(a) (3). efforts to devise the best possible bill. secretary celebrezze. on page 64 of the the main objective of our two amendrecord of hearings of the special sub- ments is to insure federalstate cocommittee on air and water pollution operation in preventing air pollution. of the public works committee. testified the new york state *department. of to his preference for state enforcement. health. under the leadership of dr. hollis the report of the department of health. ingraham. spends more than a quarter education. and welfare also reflects the of a million dollars a year on an extensive departments preference for enforce- air pollution control program. in addiember- 19 tion. a number of cities and communities in the state have their own programs. since our state and many others have had considerable experience in this field. we want to be sure that they are given a substantial part to play inthisfederal program. our amendments provide first. that the department of health. education. and welfare consult with the state government before awarding a grant within the state. and second. that the consent of the gover of the state be obtained before the secretary of health. education. and welfare gives technical assistance to the state and before the attorney general of the united states was asked to take any action to combat intrastate pollution. i am gratified that the distinguished senator from maine has agreed to accept these amendments and trust that their inclusion in this bill will bring about a strong federalstate program--.with shared responsibilities and pooled resourcesto eliminate this menace to our health and welfare.
s call for a war on poverty has a great call on the imagination of the american people. and rightly so. it is intolerable that there should be millions of americans leading substandard and hopeless lives in the midst of ecoic wellbeing unheard of in the annals of history. that a war on. poverty should be waged by our society is undeniable. but the strategy advanced so far by the administration is vague. lacks conceptual formulation. adequate funds. and organization. the problem yet remains to be defined. what causes these poor to remain in the lowest income brackets for indefinite periods. what is being done by state and local governments to meet this problem at the community level. how could existing federal programs be modified to deal directly with rural poverty and poverty in our cities. what new programs could be devised to deal with the problem at the community level. these are just some of the questions that must be answered before an operation designed to affect the lives of 30 million americans can really get off the ground. the appointment of a coordinator at the federal level to increase the effectiveness of existing federal programs represents a good beginning. in my view. however. the most effective approach mentioned thus far has been the maximum use of communityactiontype programs tailored to the varied needs of individual communities across the country. there are numerous such communityactiontype programs already in operation in various cities. including new york city. the $13 million mobilization for youth which deals with the problems of the lower east side in new york city and the proposed $80 million haryou plan toerase blight in harlem. are just two examples in this regard. new havens community progress. inc.. is aher successful project which operates in connecticut. there must also be a great emphasis on cooperative efforts between foundations. private voluntary organizations. universities. and state and local governments to tackle the problems of individual communities through projects tailored to the needs of these communities. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record at this point in my remarks an article entitled "povertyu.s.a.." from the february 17 issue of newsweek.
i would  dream of interrupting the senator from illis. except i think that as these facts are being cataloged. one other fact should also be cataloged. it is true that the public accommodations section which is contained in this bill. in the same sense. although  precisely. as it is set forth in this section. was then included. that is to say. the subject. as then included. was carefully considered over a long period of time by the commerce committee. and i k. of my personal kledge. that the same is true of the fair employment practices section. which was considered by my own committee. and we wrote a report on it. so is it  a fact that. first. there was a hearing before the judiciary committee. and. because of the views of the senator from th carolina . that hearing lasted a very long time. but with only one witnessalthough the governments case was fully presented. and we respect him for that. second. that the public accommodations section. which is one of the critical sections of this bill. was heard at length. in the same sense. by the commerce committee. and that the fair employment practices section was heard at length by the public welfare committee. so we are  faced with quite as limited hearings as might otherwise be supposed.
. although new york state has enjoyed one of the most advanced welfare programs in the country. it has made substantial additional progress as a consequence of the 1962 amendments to the social security act and new state legislation. the state is playing a significant role in recruiting and training professional workers. and is also seeking coordinated action in the war on poverty. by stimulating and encouraging local community action to provide better health care. improved living conditions. literacy classes. vocational training. and retraining. these and other related activities were reported recently by commissioner george k. wyman. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record. mr. wymans speech at the 93d annual meeting of the new york public welfare association. held at lake placid. n.y.. on june
. i shall be brief. this is an important point. this vote may very well decide the question. i served on the special subcommittee. and i serve on the main committee which handled the bill. i am the one member of my party on this side of the aisle who voted against the prouty amendment. i owe to my party and to the senate an explanation. the explanation is this: my particular reason poses the issue for the senate very clearly. i believe. there is. on the one side. the prouty amendment. which is entirely consonant with many federal welfare programs with respect to which. if a state does  initiate a program. it does  come into being. on the other hand. there is the feeling of those who testified for the administration bill. in this war on povertyand that is the one thing that distinguishes it from a mass of other welfare legislationthat there should be centralized direction by a commander in chief. as there would be in a war. that is an impressive argument. like the senator from florida and the senator from vermont. i am loath to see the authority of the states in welfare matters broken down. therefore i have proposed and have worked forand the next vote will come on itan amendment which seeks to bring about a compromise between these two polarized positions. the compromise is as follows: when a state is willing and able to take over the administration. the director of the programs is compelled to turn over the administration to that state. if a state is  willing and able to take over a program. he may. if he can feasibly do soof course if a gover opposes him. he can feasibly do itgo in and see what he can do himself. all that my amendment does is to provide that where there is active opposition. the director can operate. where there is agreement. the state has the right to take over the administration. where the state is passive and does  move one way or the other. the director. if he can. can come in and work with local units of government and with profit agencies. this compromise is  necessarily based on precedent and  necessarily completely right. but it responds to the fact that this is a humanitarian program. we believe this to be a fair way in which to handle this particular program. it is precedent for any other. that is why i have worked so hard in proposing what i have proposed. i have the greatest respect and regard for the opinions of senators. mally i would be with them. if this were  a waronpoverty program. in which i believe it is high time for our country to take some centralized morale control. even though the individual measures may  amount to a great deal. i felt i owed that explanation to the members of my party and to the senate. i have been steeped in the program for a long time. and therefore i can give a clear account of it.
. if i may have 2 or 3 minutes. the deficiency in the particular proposal which is before us lies in the fact that it excludes public agencies. and relates only to private. profit agencies. i have heard the explanation of the senator from georgia. who is a very able lawyer. and who is entirely correct in his statement. but this still leaves the question to be decided by the senate. it is true that a state. by enacting certain legislation. can inhibit every one of its subdivisions dealing with the poverty program. unless the government will allow it. that is pretty demeaning. it has to be affirmatively done. congress is "writing the ticket." i believe we could make the operation more dignified by providing the gover authority with respect to both public and private agencies. i agree with the senator from georgia that it can be done. but it represents an assertion of authority which. in some states. might be regarded as offensive to local communities and much more difficult than if congress wrote the rules of the game into this legislation. it seems to me that the right thing to do is to give the senate a clear shot at its objective in order to get the job done. and the way to do it is to amend the provision which is  before the senate. i have consulted with the parliamentarian. and have learned that it can be done in this manner. in order to arrive at this solution. it would be necessary for the senate to reject this amendment. and have aher proposal before it with the words "public agency" in it as well as the words relating to private agencies. as i sense the sentiment of the senate. my whole intent and design has never been to make my views necessarily those of the senate. but to do something which would be. in my judgment. necessary to proper governmental organization. therefore. if the senate will reject the pending amendment. i hope the authors will. or i will. submit the substitute again with the words "or public agency" in it. because that seems to be the clear purpose and intent of the senate. as well as of the senator from georgia. i hope the movers will withdraw the amendment. and adopt what appears to be the sense of members of the senate. but if that is  done. the only recourse for the senate would be to reject this substitute. and then endeavor to adopt a substitute which seems to represent the sense of the majority of the members of the senate. i believe it should include the words "or public agency." then we shall have adopted what the senate indicates is the desire of the senate in regard to this particular matter.
they are going to serve beyond the line of mal dutyin mental institutions. for example. there may be some question of interpretation. but again we are dealing here with a super peace corps. so i do  believe that becomes a material objection. as a part of that third category also. the attorney general raises the question of farmers who might receive a direct benefit under the special indemnity program included in the bill regarding milk which may have become contaminated. the senator from minnesota assures meand this should be made clear in the recordthat such payments are within the power of the secretary of agriculture to make through cooperatives or other organizations. if so made. they would then fall within the other parts of the attorney generals opinion. like poverty clients. or those who might receive an indirect benefit from the antipoverty program. they. too. would then  have to execute a loyalty oath. that is the scheme of the proposed legislation as spelled out in the attorney generals letter. i state that authoritatively on the record for myself. undoubtedly that will be in the mind of every senator voting for this motion. and is the interpretation on whichas a condition precedenti. and i believe other senators. will be casting their votes for the motion. if the senator in charge of the bill. the senator from minnesota would confirm that. i believe it would determine the question of legislative history.
i shall  argue with the senator about the welfare concept. we shall reach that later. will the senator furnish . or place in the record later. the basis for his estimate of $35 billion cost to the younger workers today. that was in the testimony. but perhaps the senator has the information fresh in his mind. or can obtain it from an analysis. i would like to see how the senator arrives at that figure.
. the amendment can be explained briefly. the amendment would define "child" under the social security act so as to permit the payment of survivors benefits to foster children who have  been legally adopted but have been cared for by a person who assumed full parental responsibility. the amendment would fill a gap in the encouragement of the foster care program at very little cost. but with considerable benefit. situations in which children find themselves dependent upon workers other than their parents include those in which a child of divorced parents lives with close relatives or a family friend. in which a child has been deserted or is illegitimate. and in which. for a variety of reasons. parents can assume responsibility for their child. in such situations the child is cut off from benefits when the person who has been supporting him dies or becomes disabled. the amendment would correct this unfortunate situation. with my colleague i have proposed this in the 86th and 87th congresses. as well as in the present congress. as s. 1771. the department of health. education. and welfare reported on the proposal in the 87th congress. and considered it. generally. favorably. the department estimated the cost to be one onehundredth of 1 percent of payroll. which amounts to approximately $35 million a year. this is parallel to the amendment. which was in the housepassed bill and is  in the senate bill. to enable children pursuing an education to receive survivors benefits until they attain age 21. instead of being cut off at age 18. this provision i have also championed. along with my colleague since 1959. i introduced it as s. 1770 in this congress and am most gratified that it is in the bill as passed by both houses. i sincerely hope. in view of the generally favorable report of the department. that the senator from louisiana . who is in charge of the bill. may see fit to accept the pending amendment and take it to conference. with my full understanding that he will use his best efforts to retain it. but that the judgment of the senator from louisiana will be final in that regard.
. on behalf of myself and the senator from montana . i send to the desk a bill to amend the social security act to provide for judicial review of administrative actions by the department of health. education. and welfare. at present the public assistance provisions of the social security act do  contain any provision for appeal to the courts by the states from administrative decisions of hew. as in many other federal programs under this act the states are required to submit plans for the approval of hew. the departments decision as to whether the plans meet federal criteria are at present unreviewable. if a state wishes to contest the departments determination that its state plan does  comply with the federal requirement. the state is then faced with the threat of the withholding of the federal funds. which would impose a severe penalty upon the recipients of welfare. in a comparable situation just last year. the congress provided for judicial review of decisions to withhold aid under title vi of the civil rights act of 1964. similarly. in the higher education act of 1963 decisions of hew were made judicially reviewable. and in s. 370. the pending primary and secondary education bill and s. 1. the current andersongorejavits medicare bill. such a provision is also recommended by the administration. with judicial review in all these statutes affecting the department of health. education. and welfare. i can see reason why the social security act should be an exception. the problem of unreviewability under the social security act has been particularly acute for my own state of new york. which within the last 2 years had a difference of opinion with hew over the wisdom of applying new federal procedures for checking the eligibility of public welfare recipients. it was new york states position that its requirements were already more stringent than those sought to be enforced in the new federal program under the social security act amendments of 1962. and that. therefore. it was  the intent of congress to displace the more effective state procedures where they already existed. however. since the state had forum in which to appeal the adverse hew decision. it reluctantly complied rather than face the withholding of federal funds. had the provision which i am  introducing been in the law. the matter could have been taken to a u.s. district court in new york so that the intent of congress could have been judicially determined in accordance with due process of law. other states have also had the same type of problem. i offered this proposal as s. 3787 in the 87th congress and as an amendment to the social security act amendments adopted in 1962 and. when the latter was considered on the senate floor. i was assured by the manager of the bill that my amendment would be given separate consideration by the finance committee at the earliest opportunity. i would very much hope that at long last in this congress the provision would be finally given prompt attention. particularly in view of its recent history on other bills i have just outlined. on february 16. congressman thomas b. curtis reintroduced his parallel bill in the other body as h.r. 4945. congressman curtis has also sought this type of provision for a number of years as a member of the ways and means committee. i am very pleased to e that in its may 1964 report on public assistance the advisory commission on intergovernmental relations recommended enactment of just such a provision as this. i ask unanimous consent that there be included in the record the pertinent excerpts from the commissions report on this subject.
. i also ask unanimous consent that. at its next printing. the name of the senator from idaho be added as a cosponsor of the bill to provide for judicial review of certain actions of the secretary of health. education. and welfare concerning public assistance programs established pursuant to title i. iv. x. xiv. or xvi of the social security act.
 i should like to answer the argument made by the manager of the bill. the senator from oregon . first. the poverty level set by the office of ecoic opportunity. which is the real fountainhead of information on this subject. is $3.000 as to preschool children. i ask unanimous consent that i may insert in the record at this point excerpts from the pamphlet "project head start. a program for preschool children." issued by the office of ecoic opportunity.
. i read one excerpt: poverty is evidenced by high unemployment rates. the proportion of a communitys families on welfare and the number of families with incomes below $3.000. next. i should like to point out that what we are doing here is making a substitution for the incentive grant. which is an indeterminate figure. what we are doing is  rewarding the wealthy district which is spending more money-
. on behalf of myself and the senator from vermont . i introduce. for appropriate reference. a bill to amend the labormanagement relations act to provide for more effective regulation of employee pension and welfare funds.
i should like to ask the senator from alabama a question and make two points which will settle the problem before the senate. i have come to the conclusion in regard to the controverted amendment i proposed with respect to the holding of two high posts by sargent shriver. which was dropped in conference. that it would be more advisable to raise the question on the proposed amendments to the poverty bill. which will be coming before the senate very shortly. such a course would avoid putting senators in the embarrassing position of having to reject a conference report related to the peace corps. in which i believe and in which i think the senate almost unanimously believes. i came to the conclusion that such a choice would be unfair. in respect to a question of that sort. which is  directly involved with the corps. its success. and its desirability. as much as i am opposed to what is being done about the appointment of mr. shriver to those two high offices. i did  feel it was fair to senators to make them vote yea or nay on a conference report which would have had to be turned down in order to raise the question. i concluded instead to consider seriously raising the issue on the poverty amendments which have been ordered reported by my own committee. the committee on labor and public welfare. and which will soon come before the senate. then the issue could be raised specifically. such a procedure will be much more fair to the issue as well as to the senators who will be called upon to consider the question. however. i would appreciate it if the senator from alabama. in his presentation. would discuss the question for a few minutes. i would appreciate it if the senator from alabama would tell the senate why the amendment was dropped and how the house members felt about it.
i shall  detain the senate much longer. but i should like to point out where the veto has been used in this past year. it has. to my kledge. been used only four times. it was used in texas to veto a 30county neighborhood youth corps rural project. it was used in alabama to veto a community action program for birmingham. it was used in florida to veto a head start program for preschool children in miami. it was used in montana to veto a rural neighborhood youth corps project. . in conclusion. i lay before the senate the fact that my amendment provides an opportunity for a fair compromise. going as far as we can to sustain the authority of the govers in the states. and to put the director of the antipoverty program to his proof. without giving the gover the absolute power of life and death over community action programs. that is the main point of the proposal: enabling the united states to carry out some responsibility toward poverty within each state. if the case is strong egh.  only to convince the director. but to stand up under the scrutiny of public opinion. which will come about through the public hearing provided for in my amendment.
. i shall  address myself to my amendment  386. this amendment has been before the senate as the pending business since last night. i believe that it has been very appropriately called by me. but by those whose business it is to affix labels on amendmentsthe "two hat" amendment. the question involved is a very simple one. shall sargent shriver wear two hats in two offices of equal rank in the federal government. or shall he wear only one. this situation does  happen very often in our government. mally we do  have a system in which any high official of the government carries more than one major responsibility. they also do many other things. but those things are  on the same level as their principal responsibility. it is necessary in some countries. for political reasons or because of the shortage of qualified personnel. to have one official function as the minister of a number of departments and hold a number of portfolios. as they are referred to in the parliamentary system. however. with us this is most unusual. consequently. i have challenged this arrangement ever since it began. i invite the attention of senators to a fine. objective analysis of the reasons why this should  be done. the senator from oklahoma made a speech last night which i commend to senators. this speech appears in the record at page 20671. it advances his reasons. after having considered the matter. for coming to the same conclusion that i reached. i think. in view of the fact that it represents a new and fresh point of view. it is well worth looking at. i owe the senate an explanation as to why i am bringing this matter up  on the poverty bill. having offered it on the peace corps bill. where it was accepted in the senate but failed of acceptance in conference. i have brought the issue up here in fairness to my own point of view. i have done it in fairness to the program. i have done it in fairness to mr. shriver. who is an excellent public servanti have never failed to say that. but the question should be definitively settled. when the peace corps bill was being considered the amendment was accepted by the manager of the bill. as we all k. when amendments are accepted in that way. they are evaluated in conference. and if there is any real. firm objection on the part of the other body. they probably will  survive the conference. there is doordie attitude with respect to amendments which a manager accepts in that way and which the senate has had opportunity to debate or consider in a detailed way. so this question should be settled.  in any way on the basis of personal issue. because sargent shriver is an excellent man. but rather as a matter of principle so far as congress is concerned. i believe the time to settle the question is today. by a rollcall vote. members of the senate will be able to say if this is the way we want it. the senate may vote to say that that is the way it wants it. or it may vote to say that it does  want it that way and challenges doing it in that way. the argument used by members of the other body in order to kill this proposition in conference on the peace corps bill was a letter sent by assistant attorney general bert schlei to the general counsel of the peace corps. the letter appears in the congressional record of august 11. at page 20097. i have answered that letter in the memorandum which is on senators desks. i ask unanimous consent that the memorandum be inserted in the record at this point in my remarks.
the next point to which i address myself is the national advisory council. here again. in my judgment. our case is irrefutable. there is an advisory council in the poverty program today. but it is absolutely ridiculous. it meets only at the request of the director. it reports to the director only upon matters upon which he asks it to report. it is as powerless. weak. and ineffective an advisory committee as i have ever seen provided by any statute. i can hardly believe we turned this bill out in the first place with that kind of provision. we tried to get a stronger advisory council. which our committee and the senate had agreed to. as the senator from vermont ks. we tried constantly in conference and could  get to first base with it. because the attitude of the conferees from the house was. "you do  need an advisory council. you can always haul them up here. you have two legislative committees. and you can examine them to your hearts content." again. it was a question of deciding whether this was the rock upon which we break. i decided one way. senator prouty decided aher. only the lord ks who is right. finally. the govers veto. here. as has been said time and again. i think it is fair to say that the senate feeling was evenly divided on whether or  to have a veto. but i certainly feel that a majority of senators wanted the gover to have a strong voice in the matter. personally. i was disappointed. and i think it was only because of the legislative situation. that the bill was sent to conference without at least the house provision. plus a provision for hearings. i think that. at the least. was the majority sentiment in the senate. etheless. it was sent with only the provision for hearings. on the first conference. the house did  insist. and hence the senate provision prevailed. but when the measure went from conference to the house. it voted affirmatively for the conditional veto which it had written into the bill. and that is the way conference went. i point out that we have firmed that up somewhat by affording public hearings to those who would complain about the fact that a gover is seeking to veto a provision. and to the gover himself. i call to the attention of the senate the express provision in the report of the managers for the house. found at page 10 of the conference report. which says: the conferees expect that the procedures established by the director of the office of ecoic opportuinity under section 209 (a) will include provision for informal hearings held by the director at the request of the gover of a state or other interested parties. the 30day stay which a gover can obtain is retained in the bill absolutely. and i honestly believe that on the govers veto. we have come as close to a consensus as is possible. the gover is entitled to such opportunity and such authority. and i think. within reason. we have retained it.
 and congress to recognize the severe deficiency in funds to meet program levels already established in the major centers of poverty and to support a $250 million supplementary appropriation to bring the program to the level authorized in the original legislation. it is this kind of recommendation which motivated our committee in the action which it took.
. i hope we will . for the presentand i emphasize the words "for the present" disturb that situation. the third point which is made in the various dissenting views is that salary levels are too high in the oeo. well. in the first place. the fact that people work on poverty does  mean that they do  have to have skills. that we do  want them honest. or that we do  want them to make a living. on the contrary. that is the very thing we want. so that they will have their heads clear to work with the difficulties that anyone ks they will have who has had any experience along this lineparticularly senatorswithin the local frame of reference in which they will have to work. they will have very tough jobs. what we did do. in an effort to meet something of that view. was to require that salaries be set in accordance with amounts paid for comparable services in that geographic area. and to require public disclosure of all persons whose salaries were $10.000 a year or more. we feel that since this program is reviewed yearly. both in the authorizing and appropriations processes. we have put in a satisfactory protection in respect of salary levels. at the same time i think it would be a fearful mistake to thwart the efforts of the agency to get the best. most capable. dedicated. and honest people to administer a program of such sensitivity. where mistakes and excesses could be so damaging and disastrous to the nations selfrespect. finally. some of my colleagues--particularly one of my colleagues who has been of tremendous help. the senator from california [mr. mulphyhave been concerned about political manipulation of the people who are poor who could so easily be imposed upon under this program. the senator from california has consequently advanced the idea of applying the hatch act to everyone drawing the major part of his salary from funds coming out of the federal governments antipoverty program. i am very sympathetic to that view. but i believe that after all the "give and take" which goes on in committee. we have come to a fair solution of the problem. on the one hand. people like the senator from california and myself are deeply concerned about the dangers of political abuse of the program and. on the other hand. we want the poor to be involved. we want the community leaders involved. it is probably more than one can ask that this kind of involvement could be achieved in total insulation from mal political life. i am convinced that it would cost us perhaps a good many desirable people if we absolutely and strictly "hatched" everybody. as the saying goes. so. we have come to a middle ground where the hatch act applies as to all employees of the "umbrella" agencies. but does  cover those in the delegate agencies except in connection with their official duties carried out in connection with the antipoverty program. i think that is a fair compromise. i believe the committee has gone a very long way to answer the legitimate and proper objections to this danger in the program. i thank the senator from pennsylvania. floor manager of the bill. for his unfailing courtesy and cooperation with me and all of us on the miity side in the very difficult and lengthy considerations in dealing with a bill of this kind. i think i have given a fair presentation of why i feel as i do and why i shall help him defend the bill on the floor of the senate. i have tried to give some of the answers to the arguments which have been raised by some of my own colleagues. -questions which were legitimate. and as to which there has been some difficulty. i hope that this assertion of our traditional american quality of decency will be fulfilled by passage of the bill substantially as we have brought it to the floor.
. i oppose the amendment of my beloved friend. the miity leader. it is very obvious that we must make up our minds whether we will have a realistic antipoverty program. or whether we are going to restrict the program within some arbitrary allocation as was done at the white house. we had the evidence. on the evidence. presented in the most possible eloquent way. we determined that $2.496 million was the least amount for which we could do the job. if we go to the figure which the miity leader used. there would  be sufficient funds. he offers alternative and we would have other course. the amount contained in the committee bill represents. after figuring and refiguring. the smallest amount with which we could possibly have an antipoverty program that remotely meets the need. rather than some arbitrary poverty figure into which we try to push the program. the senate defeated the civil rights bill of 1966. we have frustrated every action so far this year in the congress which would deal with the racial tensions existing in the country. yet we talk about the fact that there is deep resentment on the part of the community and that there are racial tensions and riots and violence. . i believe that government must answer the just grievances of the governed. and one of the just grievances of the governed arises from the intolerable ghettoes where i was raised and k only too well. we are at long last trying to do something about those conditions. in the order of national priority. they are equal with any program contained in the budget. we are certainly spending a great deal of money in vietnam. the idea that we can afford $1.75 billion. but  $2.2 billion. $2.3 billion. or $2.496 billion is  valid. we can afford all that it takes with reasonable decency to apportion this need. to the other needs. i respectfully submit that if we cut the heart out of this program and add the results of that action to the racial tension which exists. we will have frustrated every civil rights measure in congress and will be running an unacceptable risk. i say to those who favor an antipoverty program that the majority leader has given us a really rockbottom. teardown figure with which to do any kind of a job based upon the evidence. and we heard that evidence. . i hope very much that the senate will reject the amendment of the senator from illis.
. we are going to put it into the poverty program. with the millionsliterally millions--of people who are concerned. either it will  be obeyed. or it will impose an intolerable burden upon the administrator and further demean those who become clients or beneficiaries of the poverty agency. especially is this inappropriate as the acts referred to are already criminal. it is the mal tradition of our country to punish a man for a crime. but a bill of attainder is  issued against him.
. i do  think that this is any tribute or credit to the senate. we have eliminated that part which related to local law. and  we are going to have the administrator of the poverty program issue a set of guidelines defining a riot. and we are going to have him attempt to administer part (b). which. as senator saltonstall pointed out so eloquently. is impossible administratively. beyond that. there would be locked into conference. if this amendment is passed. the mandatory phase. the word "shall." the administrator would be bound by it. he would have to do it. he would have to screen 4 million people who are poverty beneficiaries. such action does  befit the senate. all the hashing going on indicates how deeper and deeper is the pit into which we will fall if we io this. the matter will be in conference. we will do our utmost to work something out which is apposite to the situation. somewhat consistent with the guidelines of the poverty agency. to do it here will be an act which we will regret. and it demeans the senate of the united states to do something in which we would just be aping the other body. i do  think that we are all so scared of our jobs or so easy in our consciences that we should do this.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record my telegram to sargent shriver. the request to me made by rev. james f. mccree. chairman of the board of directors. and john mudd. director. of cdgm. an article entitled "mississippi test on poverty set." published in the new york times of today. october 13. and an article entitled "manna from oeo falls on mississippi." written by nicholas von hoffman. and published in the washington post of today. october 13.
 johnson in his state of the union message last week and his pledge to work closely with the states and the localities to make such a partnership effective. a permanent public assistance advisory council would give state and local governments a formally. legallyconstituted forum for presenting their thoughts and recommendations to the federal agencies in an effective. orderly and uniform maner. the temporary advisory councils which have existed in the past have  adequately considered the problems of state and local governments in the public assistance programs. the proposed council would be composed of 12 members appointed for 4year terms by the secretary of health. education. and welfare from among state and local public assistance directors and "other individuals who are outstanding in public welfare administration." the council would be required to report to congress annually. the council has precedence in law for it is patterned after the federal hospital council which was established for consultation and advice in connection with the administration of the hospital construction act.
 at all. i fully support the senator. i understand what he is doing. and i think he is absolutely right. as he will showi do  intend to try to steal his speecha shocking thing has occurred with respect to the poverty program. most inhibiting directly to the purpose of congress in establishing the programto wit. elimination of selfhelp by the poor. the supplemental appropriation is seriously deficient in  covering that matter. from what we k. the president has proposal to cover it. and i should like to tell the senator that if the circumstances permitand i see reason why they should i will lay the matter before my colleagues on the appropriations committee at the appropriate time so that there may be committee consideration of the question on the supplemental. as the first amendment before the committee. and a proper prelude to its consideration on the floor.
. i have recently advanced several proposals for the reform of the welfare system which. as i suggested in my introductory remarks on this bill. was badly needed. i ask unanimous consent that this speech be printed in the record at this point.
. to my mind. one of the great issues facing the 90th congress is the need for effective and farreaching reform of the welfare system. that system is inadequate in scope and often degrading in its operation. yet the other body has passed amendments to the social security act which would. in many respects. further degrade both the system and the recipient alike. last week i testified before the committee on finance in opposition to certain of the provisions of h.r. 12080 and laid before the committee what i think to be constructive proposals for the amendment of the social security act. including its provisions with respect to social security benefits. public assistance. and medicaid. i ask unanimous consent that my testimony be printed in the record.
. i believe efforts will also be made here. i have asked the senator from connecticut [ of the subcommittee on executive reorganization. if the committee would consider transfer of the food stamp program to hew or the office of ecoic opportunity. i hope the committee will take action on this matter. the preferable result would be if the other body changed its mind and proceeded with the substantive idea. which is all i plead for. very much as it did in connection with the ratcontrol bill which it then passed on a second effort. i hope very much that may be the outcome of this measure which has such urgent appeal to those of us who investigated poverty in the united states and have seen the effects of poverty and who believe that this is a necessary measure. one would think that this would  be necessary since certainly our laws should cover cases of malnutrition. however. we found that they did . the secretary of agriculture felt he could  move and that he had to have legal authority. we sought to give him that authority here. i hope that we may find a way with the cooperation of the other body to do this.
i believe i understand the situation very well. and i am grateful to the senator from florida and the senator from west virginia for explaining it. however. i can hardly say that i am satisfied. and for this reason: it seems to me that we are shouldering the burden which belongs properly to the other body. we have moved in a timely way by passing a continuing resolution to ember 15. to see that poverty programs throughout the country did  fold. with untold distress to tens of thousands of americans. with complete uncertainty to hundreds of thousands of workers. federal and otherwise. and the other body has just been sitting tight and letting us stew and letting the country stew. i think it is a pretty close question as to whether or  they should be faced with the consequences of their action. let us see how strongly they feel about it and whether they really want federal employees to go unpaid. they obviously are perfectly satisfied to see all kinds of programs folded up because they are funded too late to do any good. even if we fund them . i make my suggestion. rather than for us to bail them out again by doing what is considered minimal in this bill. which is fixing a date of ember 9. which is tomorrow. the other point is that there is assurance the other body will go along with this. they can hang it up. as they have hung up. as i understand it. by their strong feelingsand i respect themthe continuing resolution. i do  see why we. at least. can be consistent about this matter. even if we are going to act in this way. we should stand by our position and stand by our guns. as we have assurance they will take this. why  stand by our guns and say the 15th. or at least  permit this bill to be deadlocked in conference by providing this continuing resolution. so much as contained in this bill. shall be in effect until the day of enactment of this act. but if they do  agree in conference on this bill. which would be the minimal measure. let them. rather than us. carry the responsibility for it. it seems to me that without any agreement or without any real kledge as to whether they will take it or . for us to decide the very basic minimum is  good strategy or policy. i raise the question.  in any sense of troubling federal employees. and so forth. i think everybody ks that is the last thing in my mind. i raise it because when people take important decisions and feel that they are taking very important decisions on the basis of high principle. they should be faced with the consequences of those decisions. i k the senator from florida remembers the session on the continuing resolution as i remember it. and it was quite a compromise. or i would like to ask the senator from west virginia what he would think of striking "the ninth" and inserting "the date of enactment of this act." that much. it seems to me. would be an inducement to the other body to come to some agreement tomorrow or tonight on this particular bill without leaving the whole responsibility with us by cutting it off at the very minimal point. to wit. tomorrow.
the only reason i am  doing it is that. if the point of order were  sustained. it would strike out the whole provision. which would be equally irresponsible on my part. i reserve the right. as a member of the appropriations committee and as a member of the senate. to act on any other appropriation bill. there will be one here on friday. what is more important than what any individual senator does is that the country should be aware that. if the bill passes. the government employees are going to be paid. but the poor will be allowed to languish. let the responsibility for that lie where it belongs. this is  an action that is taken in camera. the people of the country have an impact on every member of the house and the senate. it is time they felt it and were responsive to it. and  stand apart if. for deep ideas of ecoy in this or that. we fail to come to a resolution of the problem. i am  urging any member of this body to suborn his conscience by acting one way or the other. but this cliffhanging piecemeal extension which covers some and leaves others without funds is a way of dissolving people in a sea of jellyand tears. i do  think it is right. there will be a tomorrow. we are going to have a poverty bill and a poverty appropriation. we will be weeping bitter tears over the fact that what has been dismantled will have to be restructured and it will cost us a great deal more money to do it that way. . i have made my point. as far as i am concerned. the bill can be passed .
the senator from rhode island ks me well egh to k that i would  butter him up. we could  have a more kledgeable member of the appropriations committee than the senator from rhode island. he has been engaged in this work for much longer than i have. there are a few misunderstandings of fact going around. and i would greatly appreciate itand i think the senate would appreciate itif the senator from rhode island would set us straight on the facts. one fact that needs emphasis is that the continuing resolution which we did get in the district of columbia bill. as i said. affects only the salaries of government workers up to ember 9. and excludes the whole mass of workers for local poverty programs which are  run by government employees. but which are funded as local projects. that is why we have had all of these program closings. and that is why we have experienced the difficulty. am i correct in my statement.
. to complete my argument. there is just reason why in 22 states those people who are hanging on by their teeth and are  actually drawing cash welfare payments should be discriminated against. and there is reason that a state should cut off the opportunity these people have to continue in such a program merely because they are  drawing cash welfare payments. i understand the problem in the committee. they included in the bill a 150percent standard on oldage assistance. the house passed a lower ceiling. the senate committee reported a bill with a higher ceiling. but took away its positive effect with only 25 percent federal matching funds. thereby discriminating against those who might be medically indigent. that is a case of greeks bearing gifts. we would  be doing anything for the people who need it the mostthose who are  drawing cash assistance but who will be compelled to draw public assistance in order that they might participate in medicaid programs. it seems to me that medicaid is a very desirable program. new york. which is alleged to be the principal offender. will take whatever limit congress sets and will make up the difference if necessary. however. certainly we do  want to be subject to discrimination against those with small earning power. in favor of those who are drawing cash assistance. this provision would require that a man must be drawing or eligible for cash assistance to receive medicaid. that is the very thing we do  want to do.
the pending amendment is the first of seven which will be presented by a group of senators. myself included. i will read the names of the cosponsors in a minute. the amendment is directed toward the welfare aspect of the pending bill. the amendment calls for the establishment by states and local agencies administering the full welfare program for the blind. the other welfare recipients. and dependent children. of an advisory council whose views will be stressed and taken into account in the administration of a program and the development of a plan. . the senators who join with me in cosponsoring the pending amendment. republicans and democrats. are mr. kennedy of new york.
. the difficulty which obviously is shown by the senator from louisiana is that he is  addressing himself to this amendment at all. the proposed amendment is  intended to deal with the character of the states social welfare boards or the social welfare boards of political subdivisions. it is  addressed to that matter at all. it is part of a plan or program under all these welfare categories. we seek the designation of consultative committees to consult with the authorities in order to see what they have to contribute to the way in which these programs are run. and to give them a voice in the programsyes. to let them complain. if they feel they are being put upon and prejudiced. what is this situation all about. if it is  to give these people a sense of participation and dignity and a sense of belonging. that is the entire problem of the welfare business.
. i wish to speak briefly with regard to the senators last statement. obviously. the senator from louisiana. has  lived in the big city. we have been in chicago. los angeles. southern cities. thern cities. and we have been in new york city. the complaint of these people is that they are  a part of the program. that they have a handout from a patron. the government. and they have hing to say about it. whether it is good. bad. or indifferent. they say that they are demeaned by caseworkers who look down their es at them. telling them how to live. and who ring their doorbells at 1 oclock or 2 oclock in the morning. to see if they have a man or a woman there. these people are dispossessed of dignity and they have a right to be heard. if the senator said i am trying to reform social welfare through the country. he would be right. but i am  trying to do that here. we are trying here to put an ination in the program that would  only state how they are to be dealt with. but would go into whether they are being treated as human beings. their blood is just as red. they pain just as much. and they suffer as much as anybody else. and more. they. too. should have a right to stand on their feet and say what they think instead of being told to keep quiet and "we will take care of you." that is all the argument amounts to. and that is what we are trying to take care of in the amendment.
the amendment requests that consultative committees be set up of recipients of the welfare program in different categories. who would be permitted to have their say as to how the program is run and what the plans and programs which are developed by states and other local subdivisions under it shall do. it is consultative only and has hing to do with social welfare boards. the senator said that social welfare boards represent the poor. we k that social welfare boards are composed of officials and persons who hold positions high in the community. they are first rate people and they are high minded. and so forth. but it is  the fellow whose ox is being gored. the group of us who are introducing the seven amendments hope to open up the window shades to let recipients have a say. they can complain. if they want. they would  be buried under a mountain of bureaucracy with chance to be heard. all senators here have state offices. i have offices in new york city and in buffalo. my colleague has offices in new york city and upstate. we have people pouring through those offices every day in connection with welfare who say they have been treated badly and that they are  getting what they are entitled to. this is all very legitimate. we want to hear it. they have to come to us to request us to act. whether it is a city councilman. a representative. or a senator. they have other way to be heard. i say they should be given dignity and something to aspire to. recognize them as people who have a right to be heard. i suggest to the senator from louisiana that he take an amendment like this one to conference. if there are bugs in it. it can be considered. and if it needs to be worked out that can be gone into. but do  say. "the state boards of welfare will look after them." they do . those of us in big cities k that this is an endemic complaint. the poverty program is the product of welfare. everything about the poverty program is in this bill. however. it lacks one ingredient and that is participation by the poor themselves. that is what i am trying to provide. this is a new idea and we should  bury it. it may take awhile to get accustomed to. but it is the right path and we should try it. . inasmuch as i wish to request the yeas and nays on the amendment. i suggest the absence of a quorum.
 so that i may address those senators who were  in the chamber before the quorum call. the essence of the amendment. which is the first of seven amendments to be presented by a group of us on this subject. is to provide for consultative committees on the various welfare programs which are encompassed by this bill to give a voice to those who are recipients of the program. this would contribute to their dignity and it would be a channel through which they can voice complaints and make constructive contributions to the program themselves. there is stratification. we do  provide that there is to be one for every state. just so this voice is heard. we leave the details to the department.
. there is one other thought which is very important in this matter. the people who are affected by the program do  k themselves what is going on in the program. many complaints are made about the fact that these programs are exploited by people without conscience who draw benefits and who are  entitled to do that. one thing that i am sure consultative committees will do is to keep a watchful eye upon this kind of abuse of the program. one ks better than the welfare recipients themselves who is abusing the program and is  entitled to the benefits although receiving them. the basic reason is that it adds aher dimension. the dimension of work in this bill. which i think is terrific. a great improvement. and a landmark advance for the country. we should also add the dimension of the personal dignity of consultation which will be an additional landmark in the handling of the program. i think i have made the argument as well as i can. i do  k whether the senator from illis wishes to debate the matter any further.
. i hope that even a senator who is  the miity leader may be pardoned a smile at these speeches. woe to anybody who offends senatorial sensibilities. i understand that. that is probably going to be the new sampler in the homes of many of the poor. as well as "god bless america." but here thoroughly experienced senators talk about the pressures of the poor and suborning their abilities to represent their states. i hope i will be forgiven for a smile. the only difference between them and the manufacturers association or the shipping lobby or the aircraft lobby or the farmers lobby or the space manufacturing lobby. or the lobby for the humane treatment of animals. and 150 others. is that the poor do  wear such good suits and can buy expensive lunches. i do  think that there is any other difference. that is why we are here. we also are here because we k how to resist pressure. does anyone tell me that if these particular groups are  brought into existence there will be a dearth of pressures from the right or the left. the middle. or any spectrum under the sun. of course . i do  condone the conduct to which the senator from illis [mr. dirkseni as alluded. quite properly. whether it is by the poor or by the rich. whether it is by the right or by the left. the laws of lobbying will apply to these consultative committees as well as they apply to everybody else. in terms of what they have to publish. and if they do  comply with them they ought to go to jail. just like everybody else. but this is completely begging the question with respect to what we are trying to do here. which is to redeem the welfare recipients from an endemic condition of poverty and determine what government can do. look into the lack of motivation. and ascertain whether reforms like this are good or . after all. we have consultative groups in the poverty program. and we have all kinds of other groups. they can come to us. some of the roughest and toughest groups i have met with have been groups of the reactionary right. some of them are very violent and very strong and very opinionated. so what. that is their privilege. i ho them all. i see them all. they may insult me. that is part of the office. and we have rectitude of king that what we are doing is the right thing for our country. and that kledge sustains us. but to argue that we are  going to have any of these groups or that there is something wrong about lobbying or that people should have right to tell us what they think when their ox is being gored runs counter to the history of this nation.
. as we read the bill. referring to page 266. it relates to the new type of special work projects in which welfare recipients may be employed. and the question is whether public agencies and private profit agencies. who are there specifically referred to. could subcontract or buy services from any private organization whether or  it is profitmaking. i wish to point out in that respect that under the poverty program . where community action agencies must be public or profit they can etheless contract out different parts of the program either to profit or profit private agencies. and that the flexibility which that affords and the utilization of the abilities of the private business community have been very valuable. i wonder as to the construction of the manager of the bill.
. i wish to emphasize to the senate the importance of this amendment. in view of fairness as to what is being done in the medicaid program as brought in by the senator from louisiana . very strict limits are being placed on the income limitation in terms of federal participation. we fought a battle concerning the problems of those who are  cash welfare recipients being eligible. even to the extent of 25percent matching. more than half of those were under medicaid in new york. as it is a very big state. and there are very material differences. especially in shelter costssenator kennedys approach was shelter costs. mine had been the general cost of living. and on inquiry. i found that his was superior. so i joined with him and adopted his--in fairly reflecting the real differences that should or should  make people eligible for medicaid. depending on different brackets of income in different parts of the state. as we are going to absorb a burden. . that looks like $100 million more for new york. because of this bill. this is one way in which we can be materially helped. and in which many people can be helped. i hope the senate will sympathetically consider the amendment. and that it will be agreed to.
 i. too. join in support of this amendment of the amendment of the senator from new york. . i would like to put to the senate this. i testified before the finance committee in favor of this amendment. so did my colleague from new york. i laid before the committee the proposition that the mother should be the one to make the decision. and welfare department should make the decision. as to whether the mother is needed in the home. is that the essence of the senators amendmentthat when the mother thinks she is needed in the home. and the children are  in school. she is the one who should be making the decision.
. this amendment has been confined. at my request. to family and child allowances. although originally. as printed. it dealt with many others. including guaranteed income. i believe that this is the essence of the one real scheme which might have some promise in view of what there is happening in the whole welfare field. which has been testified to extensively. i may point out that over 40 countries in the world have family and child allowance plans. i think it would be worthwhile to look into it. and i hope the senator from louisiana will take the amendment to conference.
. i have read this amendment with some interest. it seems to me that it would. if adopted. answer the point which the senator from oregon and i have both made. that is. that where the action which is being taken with the use of poverty fundsand that is what they areis an action which arises out of the control within the affected state or local education agency of its own volition. without representing any federal control. as. for example. through the control on poverty funds or inhibition on their use. then it should be perfectly lawful. and it is a desirable use of the funds which are at stake.
i will say that i think the interpretation is aided by the requirement in the federal aidtoeducation statute. under which the secretary of health. educatiofi. and welfare gives approval. that there shall be federal control of the program. therefore. ipso facto. if there is federal control of the program. there is federal control in one of the elements of the program. to wit. busing. if that is the element.
. many people in this country are aware in a vague and general way of the diverse welfare problems facing a very large number of families of armed forces personnel. on december 4. mr. moe hoffman. washington representative of the national jewish welfare board. delivered a cogent and informative speech on this subject at the army community service conference held at the pentagon. mr. hoffman is a very experienced expert in this field. and he has made a systematic analysis of the major problems and factors involved. i think that all of us in this chamber can profit from his speech. i ask unanimous consent that it be printed in the record.
. let me emphasize that. when a political subdivision itself becomes the community action agencywhich is completely. for practical purposes. within its power to dothe poor and other private groups are excluded from participating in the determination of policy. they can administer. but the policy is firmly in the hands of the political agency and its officials. under the present act. policy at the local level is set by boards of which onethird are representatives of the poor. under the green amendment. as accepted by the conferees. the board on which sit representatives of the poor as well as representatives of the community generallybusiness. industry. labor. religion. and welfare organizationsonly "administers" the program. this board "participates in development and implementation" of programs but it is essentially advisory with respect to policy. let us understand that we fought this battle for days on end. uphill and down. and i stood very actively with my senate colleagues in the fight. and we got here. the limitation of board power in respect of policy was deliberate on the part of the other body--at least. the majority members of the other bodysince the proponents of the green amendment sought to make clear that where a city hall became the community action agency. its governing officialsto wit. the city councilcould call the shots. without the poor participating in the actual decisionmaking process.
. i read the letter: dear senator clark: before the 1967 ecoic opportunity amendments are signed into lawwhich i hope will be sooni want to let you k how much we appreciate the consistent and constructive leadership role you and senator javits have played in the development of this legislation. the national effort to combat poverty must be bipartisan. and the bipartisan support the program enjoys today is an important factor in our overall success. your strong advocacy of a genuine effort to help the poor has been a tremendous source of encouragement. while i understand the reservations expressed by some about certain provisions in the conference bill. i am hopeful that they will  cause undue administrative or programmatic difficulties. because of the concern expressed by some as to the impact of these provisions. we will supply an interim progress report to the committee in the late summer or early fall on the operation of the amendments as they are implemented around the country. we have always attempted to carry on our program in a manner consistent with the intention of the congress and in a partisan way. in the implementation of the new guidelines established by the congress. we will continue that policy. where a conflict develops with respect to the designation of a community action agency. i intend to seek a solution that is thoroughly political and partisan and which fully respects the role of the poor. i believe that the act permits. and. in fact. demands that our first program concern is substance.  form. let me assure you again that partisan political considerations will  color our judgments in the implementation of the legislation. because of his strong interest and ranking position on the committee. i am sending a copy of this letter to senator javits. with best personal regards. sincerely.
it is a source of regret to me. as it must be to all friends of democracy. that neither my good friend and vice chairman alexander sparigas.  other members of the greek parliamentary delegation to the th atlantic assembly. were present at brussels. this is  the proper occasion on which to discuss the present political situation in greece. other than to say that all of us devoutly hope for a speedy return to parliamentary rule in greece. peaceful relations between greece and turkey are essential to the development of the ecoies of these two countries. to the betterment of the welfare of the peoples of these two countries. and. to the security of the eastern flank of the th atlantic alliance. it is important to e that the cyprus communique issued on september 9. 1967. made a special reference to this vital fact. and it is my belief that such peaceful relations will affirmatively assist in the return of greece to mal parliamentary government. the project of greekturkish ecoic cooperation was begun at a time when different governments were in power in greece and turkey. in greece. i first discussed this project with the then prime minister. . on a hopeful but urgent e. during a period of great stress. much has been accomplished. the accomplishments have been in specificsthe work which has been done on tourism. on fisheries. on the meric/evros et cetera. the accomplishments have also been institutionalthe establishment of an eastern mediterranean development institute. these accomplishments should be taken  as the culmination of a job which has been done. but as providing encouragement for the much more important tasks which lie ahead. and i stress that to deal with those tasks  in a sine qua  of a wise diplomacy. and of our own interests. of the interests of the free world. and most specially of the peoples of greece and turkey.
. i am very pleased to e. this move. and to be associated with it. i believe that the senate had acted very wisely in respect to the measure it passed. and the result of the conference was a devastating blow to the fairness. justice. and even the wisdom and intelligence which went into the welfare plan as it passed the senate last year. i hope very much that that injustice will be corrected. the fact that we were compelled to swallow the whole report because it was a unit. and many felt that parts of it were more desirable than the wholethough i did . and i think the junior senator from new york felt as i diddoes  justify it. and i think the majority really ought to have this on their consciences and that we. in this session. should seek to see undone these injustices of which senator kennedy and senator harris have spoken. and which are dealt with in these proposals.
. in the case of food stamps. we have the problem that some people do  even have the minimal amount of money that is required to pay for food stamps. it might be as low as 50 cents. still. they do  have even that much. this is  an easy issue. we have the findings of the citizens committee on hunger. which claims that roughly 300 counties in the hunger category. out of the poorest 1.000. have program. we have the counter argument of the secretary that if they do  have it . they will have it by july 1. it seemed to me that the only way in which i could see that we could try today to touch the focal point of the issue was by at least freeing the hands of the secretary in respect of this pool of section 32 funds. so that he could at least deal with the direct situation of starvation and malnutrition where it exists until we could actually unravel this ball of wool in order to see what ought to be done and what ought  to be done in terms of substantive legislation. i point out as the author of the amendment. and by way of legislative history. that we would expect it to be used only by the secretary in cases of serious hunger or in cases of malnutrition such as to represent a serious peril to health. i do  wish the manager of the bill to have any idea that this is some open ended authorization to the secretary of agriculture. and i am  even trying to argue the big issues which are involved in the food stamp plan. et cetera. but i am confining myself to a situation that is appalling to us. matter what are ideological viewsthe fact that a secretary of agriculture in the united states. with a tremendous pool of funds available. claims that he can move into a situation as desperate as hunger and malnutrition equivalent to hunger. therefore. i have made my effort in the best way i can define itartistic or inartistic as it may be. and without necessarily agreeing with him on the lawto strike those shackles from his hands. this thing has been going on for months. we had a terrific row with the secretary of agriculture. he got very angry at me. as some senators may have seen on television. months ago. yet. in the intervening time.  egh progress has been made. the situation continues. he makes the same point that he made before when he got so angry at methe fact that he can see his way under the law as being able to do what needs to be done. but which he says he can do. because his hands are tied by this provision. i am a member of the committee. i could have brought this matter up on monday. however. unfortunately i could  be present on monday. in the meantime the arguments against it have burgeoned and boiled up in the last few days. the secretary of agriculture has been very put out at the broadcasting companies. and he had a press interview which has been placed on the front page of the newspapers. it is this situation that i am trying to contend with in the amendment. i hope the manager of the bill will accept it as a good faith explanation. i was unable to be here on monday to explain this to the committee.
i am sorry that the senator comes to any such conclusion as that. because it is  warranted. there have been a very long series of hearings in the last 9 weeks at least. many in the house. and also in the senate. some 16 sets of hearings have been held. involving over 100 witnesses. i fought this battle on the agricultural appropriations bill to the extent i could fight itto wit. to try to untie the hands of the secretary of agriculture who claims he could  use section 32 funds. and the senate went along on that. this is the second installment in that effort. this is  the first timei have the evidence to support itthat we found lacunae in our understanding of these situations. the fact is. we have discovered emous areas of poverty. hunger. or malnutrition which have  been covered by our legislation. i point out. too. . just by way of substantiation of the situation. that all the testimony which we have. as i say. in committee. which handles the poverty program. indicates a very real and very endemic condition of this character.
. i call the attention of the senate to the fact that the new york state legislature. through its joint legislative committee. headed by state senator william e. adams as its chairman. called on senator goodell and me this morning and presented a concurrent resolution. adopted unanimously without regard to party by the state legislature. memorializing the congress to reform the welfare system and to create minimum standards for public assistance in all states. also present to present this resolution to us were state senator william t. smith. and assemblymen james l. emery. vice chairman. and lawrence e. corbett. jr. i think this is such an important document and so very well done that i ask unanimous consent that its text may be printed in the record as a part of my remarks and also that it may be included as one of the petitions and memorials presented today. and appropriately referred.
 who feel that the problem is  as urgent and crucial as i have described. then i would hope that they will go out into the field. as i have done. to see the widespread. appalling conditions of hunger that demand much more comprehensive measures involving much greater expenditures than they  seem to have in mind. matter what may be provided from business and profit sectors. a significant additional contribution of resources from the federal government is vital. this is especially so inasmuch as the federal programs  dealing with the production and conservation of food have resulted in the storage of huge quantities of surplus foods at a cost in the magnitude of $5 billion a year. the introduction by senator mcgovern. chairman of the select committee on nutrition and human needs. of his bill directed essentially toward providing free food stamps to families whose annual incomefamilies of fouris less than $960. at an additional cost of $1.5 billion to the food stamp program. is an indication of the direction of the thinking of the majority on the committee. i. as ranking miity member of the committee. am sympathetic with the objectives of senator mcgoverns food stamp bill and support them as far as they go. however. i believe that the bill. by dealing almost exclusively with food stamps. does  go far egh in combating the conditions of hunger and malnutrition which plague our nation. i plan to introduce within the next few weeks a more comprehensive bill with as many of the miity members as possible. the miity bill. which has been in preparation for several weeks . will include and go beyond expansion of the food stamp program. it will also include provisions for involving private food companies in the development and distribution of fortified and enriched foods. for dealing with the problem of delivering commodity foods to recipients who lack their own transportation. for improving the administration of all food programs. including nutritional education of the poor. the school lunch program. and food assistance plans for expectant mothers and infants. i believe it important to speak out at this time and to establish a timetable for legislation from the miity in the hope that the administration will neither crystallize its thinking  make definitive decisions at least until these proposals are before the congress. we should have an opportunity to convince the administration of the high priority we place on the relief of human misery through an effective campaign against malnutrition among the poor.
. one of the most crying needs in the whole field of the struggle against poverty and hunger. and the struggle to get on top of the welfare problem in this country. is to afford the greatest and the most flexible as well as the most intelligent handling of job training and jobgetting opportunities. it is because i believe that this will be best promoted through the course which has  been started and is being put together that i have taken the position i have in the committee and on the floor of the senate. to those who would go along these lines. let me give them the deep and firm assuranceas a ranking member on the committee. in whose work i am constantly engaged. a job which i have succeeded in taking over from the distinguished senator from arizona -that i shall be indefatigable in seeing that the opportunities for training. and the opportunities for jobs. are constantly widened. i am  a bit satisfied with the total figures . i want to increase them. i am acting as i am because i believe that is the best path to attain that result.
i thank the senator. . the amendment will be cosponsored by me. together with the senator from wisconsin and chairman of the subcommittee on employment manpower and poverty of the committee on labor and public welfare . the senator from california
these additional slots for these three cities are  included in the $55 million appropriation which we seek through this amendment. as i say. we did  have from the conference of mayors itself the supportable data to back it up. however. the independent inquiry of this one senator indicates why the mayors feel that $55 million is inadequate. and that their resolution indicates a need of $100 million. my amendment was very substantially supported in the senate by senators who feel a very deep responsibility to do everything they can in this very modest recordering of national priorities to deal with this very urgent situation. the senate should bear in mind that even if my amendment is agreed. we will be dealing with less one onefourth of the target. in addition to the senator from wisconsin . the chairman of the subcommittee on employment. manpower. and poverty of the committee on labor and public welfare the cosponsors of this amendment are the senator from massachusetts . the senator from new jersey . the junior senator from new york . the senator from maryland
. i express my appreciation to the leadership and to the senior senator from louisiana for being kind egh to wait so that i might say a word about the $750 million emergency authorization for the food stamp program for fiscal year as the ranking miity member of the select committee on nutrition and human needs. i join with the senator from south dakota . chairman of the select committee in approving the emergency action taken by the agriculture committee. of which the senator from louisiana is the chairman. i think that a word needs to be said also concerning the hearings which our select committee. has carried on in various parts of the country. i believe that these hearings have so markedly brought to public attention what so many amerii cans can hardly believe to be credible. a situation which seems to be so heavily substantiated by the fact that we do have a far greater number of cases of malnutrition which can properly be labeled hunger thanany american ever thought likely or possible in our country. t i feel. therefore. that the work which has been done by the select committee in this regard has been very valuable. i am very pleased and gratified to express my appreciation to the senator from louisiana and to the senator from th dakota because the committee has responded so very promptly on the monetary level. the real problem we face is aproblem of outreach and participation which seem to be very much needed. i do  say that. in any sense. to blame anyone. i say it merely to point out the difficulty that exists even in my state of new york. which one would expect to be very enlightened on this score. the average county with a food stamp program there serves only an estimated 13 percent. although it could and should benefit all. gover rockefeller has just signed legislation in new york that is designed to provide statewide programs that will reach out to those who should be covered by the food programs. one finds the situation in all parts of the country. i first encountered an interesting situation which may be of some concern to my colleagues: during the course of the hearings held by the subcommittee on permanent investigations of the committee on government operations involving the black panther party in california. especially in the bay area around san francisco. it developed that one of the very big attractions responsible for bringing attention and people to the black panther party was that it serves hot breakfasts to children. one looked into the matter. the policy authorities did  look into the matter of whether there was a hot breakfast program in oakland or san francisco. that is a very interesting situation and shows what food may mean from a totally different point of view than we have been discussing in the realm of poverty. the other point which i wish to make in. supporting the resolution. together with the senator from south dakota
i must say i thoroughly disagree with the senator about the point he is making. we might just as well argue the merits. the fact is. you are  going to get money continuously out of the treasury. but when you have a profit in a business involved. you have to begin to be business people. the treasury will  take it and will  stand it. instead of $10 million. you get $25 million this way. or $50 million. or $100 million. whatever you need. i think what we are doing is shrinking from the only way. the assessment per ton is  large. they are paying 40 cents a ton for the welfare fund. but if we are going to strip ourselves of this power. we are going to remain in the past. and never get into the present or the future. i hope the senate will take this seriously. i agree with the senator when he says this matter is important. if he wants to debate it all day tomorrow. i will be glad to do so. because i am with him. this action will set a precedent for airplane manufacturers and many other lines of business.-if we are  going to be able to do this. this government can stand the gaff and modernize itself. if this point of order is going to be decided adversely anyway. we had betterbe .on ice and k what we are docxv1734--part 20 ing. the senate can debate it all day tomorrow. as far as i am concerned. but i can sit here and listen to a senator make this argument. which defeats the very thing he wants to accomplish. if he gets $10 million a year by the method he proposes. he will be lucky.
 nixon earlier this year called for substantial improvements in the federal food assistance programs and for "an end to hunger in americafor all time." evidence of this administrations commitment has been provided by significant administrative breakthroughs by secretary of agriculture hardin and secretary of health. education. and welfare finch. and by the proposals for food stamp reform which the administration submitted to the congress earlier this year. the senate has  responded to the overwhelming sense of urgency which has characterized public concern with this issuea response that would  have been possible without republican votes. in expanding and reforming the foodstamp program. the senate has taken a giant step toward providing the administration with the tools it needs to establish and implement a truly responsive foodassistance program. i sincerely hope that the house of representatives will  act favorably upon the foodstamp bill which the senate has passed and which is  before that body. i urge the house to give it the same broad bipartisan support which characterized the senates action on this matter. i believe also that this bill offers significant improvements which the administration can and should support.
. i intend to introduce a bill but first i would like to call to the leaders attention that i wish to be heard in connection with the food stamp housesenate bill. i gather that a proposal for a unanimous consent agreement is brewing. and i would like to be ified when the matter will be brought up.
. i intend to introduce a bill but first i would like to call to the leaders attention that i wish to be heard in connection with the food stamp housesenate bill. i gather there is some consent brewing but i would like to be ified when the matter will be brought up. i do  blame senators for  having read every word of the record every day. but i think. as my relations with the senator from louisiana have always been splendidand i am very proud of thati would  for a moment want him to feel that when i came into the chamber some time ago and was told the matter was being called up. that what i stated was something i dreamed up. my second point was that the impression may have been created in the minds of the senator from louisiana . and the senator from florida
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record excerpts from the testimony of dr. george james before the senate appropriations subcommittee on departments of labor. health. education. and welfare and related agencies.
 called attention in his message of april 30. 1969. to the congress on improving the administration of federal programs. the department of health. education. and welfare has provided in the bill for consolidating the present separate categories of grants for construction of mental retardation facilities. for construction of university affiliated facilities. and for initial staffing of community mental retardation facilities into a single. flexible program of grants to public or profit agencies covering facilities and services for the mentally retarded. appropriations authorizations are requested for 3 years.
. i introduce for myself. the senior senator from washington and the senator from west virginia an amendment to the wagneroday actthe 1938 law which for the past 32 years has given to the blind a special priority in the selling of certain products to the federal government. this bill has two principal objectives: first. to extend the priority  reserved for the blind to the other severely handicapped. assuring. however. that the blind will have first preference. and second. to expand the category of contracts under which the blind and severely handicapped would have priority to include services as well as products. reserving to the blind first preference for 5 years after the enactment of the bill. additional government expenditures would be occasioned by this measure. a companion bill will be introduced in the house of representatives by representative craig hosmer of california. and other members of the house. largely through the opportunities made possible by the wagneroday act. there are  over 5.000 blind persons. earning regular wages in 79 workshops for the blind in 35 states. turning out over 300 highquality products. this bill would broaden their opportunities by allowing for special consideration in government contracts for services in addition to products. also. it would permit the severely handicapped to avail themselves of similar opportunities. without impinging on the first preference given the blind. this measure has the support of principal organizations for the blind and the severely handicapped. these include the american association of workers for the blind. the american foundation for the blind. the federation of the handicapped. the goodwill industries of america. international association of rehabilitation facilities. national association for retarded children. the national association of sheltered workshops and homebound programs. the national industries for the blind. and the national rehabilitation association. in japan. nearly a third of that countrys blind and partially blind are employed. in the united states more than onefifth of the blind are employed. as for the handicapped. a recent study indicates that up to 50 percent more disabled persons could be helped by a sheltered workshop if more work were available to them. today. over 100.000 disabledincluding blind disabledare served each year by the 1.500 sheltered workshops in the nation. the proposed legislation is  a welfare measure. it is a harded proposal to help those who have choice but to help themselves. the blind and the severely handicapped wish to be selfsupporting and to be taxpayers.  tax burdens. this legislation would provide a significantly increased number of opportunities for work for those who otherwise might be relegated to institutions. to welfare programs or supported by already burdened families. after 32 years of successful operation. the wagneroday act must  be strengthened as i propose. in closing. i wish to state that i am particularly gratified that senator jennings randolph is a cosponsor of this bill. as a member of the house. he was a coauthor of the randolphshepherd act which for the past 34 years has benefitted blind vendors in public buildings. senator randolph has long been a pioneer in the effort to help the blind become productive citizensas they are able. i think it is magnificent that he has lent himself to this effort as well. i sent the bill to the desk for appropriate reference. and i ask unanimous consent that its text be printed in the record.
. i will be through in a minute but i should like to give my colleague an example. when we say that we will be concerned with the welfare payment. that sounds like. "what are we doing with that. there is the finance committee and the committee on labor and public welfare. and so forth. to handle that." but. we have discovered as a technique that the inclusion of an allowance for food. or a plan for food. may have a lot to do with whether we can handle the welfare load without breaking the back of the country. the wisdom. the art. in which that can be done is properly something which the committee can look into. it is still a recommendation. it is still a legislative committee. however. that will have to do what has to be done. thus. coupling the two points. one. that we found the ramifications of malnutrition. and second. the deep feeling i have as ranking miity member. in which the senator from south dakota joined. that the committee must be kept catholic to its purpose. are an assurance to the senate that we will  wander all over the lot. i have been here long egh to k that if we did wander. we would be speedily corrected by the senate in ways which it ks expertly how to do.
. to a very serious deficiency in the nature of the arguments here. and the nature of the proof. the fact is that by statesand the table of the department of health. education. and welfare was inserted in the record on february 9. at page 2920 of the record. and certainly has  been contestedthe disparity between the states in which there was state imposed segregation and the states in which there was  state imposed segregation. in terms of attendance at what. in effect. were segregated schools. was very marked2. 3. or 4 to 1 in many cases.
. i ask unanimous consent that there be printed in the record the full text of the bill. the text of the accompanying letter from the secretary of labor. the text of an accompanying explanatory statement. a sectionbysection analysis prepared by the administration. and a print of the welfare and pension plans disclosure act as it would be amended by this bill.
. i believe that senators should have these and other recommendations in mind as they consider the administrations family assistance plan. which i have cosponsored. accordingly. i ask unanimous consent that pertinent excerpts from the report of the committee for ecoic development. entitled "improving the public welfare system." be printed in the record.
 to effect "an end to hunger in america for all time." on august 12. 1969. i stated: it would be hard indeed on our nations poor first to give them admittedly inadequate financial assistance--assistance that in most cases would  even cover a familys food budgetand then to take away their opportunity. through the foodstamp program. to purchase food at reduced prices. an incomemaintenance program at an adequate level may yet replace the foodstamp program. but it would be folly to even consider initiating the transition before that level is established. under the present circumstances. our nations poor require an "expansion"- a phaseoutof food stamp and related programs.... the administration subsequently made it quite clear that it would continue to support an expanded food stamp program until cash payments reach an adequate level. and. in testimony before the select committee on nutrition and human needs. secretary finch and secretary hardin pledged that in the interim their two departments would work toward a coordinated administration of the two programs. a few weeks later. the senate indicated its full commitment to an expanded food stamp program by passing the food stamp act of 1969. proposed by senator mcgovern and myself. the amendment proposed by senator mcgovern would insure that these commitments of the administration and of the senate to a continuation of an expanded food stamp program would become an integral part of the new income maintenance system proposed by the administration. most importanly. the amendment would guarantee that recipients of cash assistance under the administrations bill will also receive the food stamps to which they are entitled. moreover. in providing for a single federal system of distribution for these two programs. the amendment should lower total administrative costs. permitting more of the money allotted to the program to actually reaching the poor and others receiving benefits under the administrations plan. while i share the belief held by the administration and by the poor themselves that we must move toward a cash system of income maintenance. the fact is clear that the cash level provided under the family assistance acthowever realistic as a legislative goal at the present timeis unrealistic standing alone to those who daily face the problem of keeping life together. in addition to supporting this amendment. i shall propose. in the coming weeks. a series of amendments to the family assistance act designed to insure that those unable to support themselves will receive a level of assistance on terms reflecting an awareness of the great dignity of the poor and of their actual needs. i feeland the senator has been very gracious in thatthat i have complete freedom of action if i can come up with any different idea. a better means of accomplishing the intent of this amendment. to submit that to senator mcgovern and to all my colleagues.
. in light of these facts. it is clear that an arbitrary imposition of a work requirement will only force mothers of schoolage children to choose between neglecting their children or losing their benefits under the family assistance act. the mother on welfarelike any other motheris in the best position to determine whether her participation in employment or training will serve the interests of her family. and i might add that guidelines can be formulated that could adequately express for more than 3 million schoolage children in poor households headed by women. the circumstances under which employment or training will be a longterm benefit rather than a longterm liability for the child. the family. and society because of neglect. but this does  mean that we should fail to encourage such mothers to accept work and training opportunities. accordingly. although my amendment would eliminate the work requirement for mothers of schoolage children it would leave unchanged the requirement that they register for manpower services. training. and employment. by requiring registration. but  work. the mother will become aware of opportunities. but would  be forced to accept them if she determined that they would interfere with her care for the child. let us. then. give welfare mothers the respect to which they are entitled. and rely upon their own desires to provide for their children and upon a thoughtfully constructed incentive system. a meaningfully developed manpower and training and employment program. and expanding comprehensive childcare services to spell the differencesin timebetween our new efforts to help the poor and those past efforts which havedespite similar requirementsfailed to eliminate the rise in welfare dependency. as i request cosponsorship for this amendment in the coining days. i hope that many of the members of the senate will join with me. whether or  they support the family assistance plan. to indicate their strong opposition to the inclusion of any such work requirement in the crucial welfarereform legislation which will be acted upon by the congress this year. i ask unanimous consent that my amendment be printed at this point in the record.
. i am authorized to state that i make these proposals on behalf of the senator from massachusetts and myself. we hope to include the names of other senators as cosponsors by next week. it is my hope that a number of my republican colleagues and senators on the other side of the aisle. who also believe that these amendments contain elements that should be included in this crucial welfare reform. will join with us and that together we can assure that this great. historic legislation will become law before congress adjourns this year.
. in anticipation of that event. and to further inforn-. senators in detail as to what i am proposing. as well as to show senators some tables relating to the percentages which. under my amendment. would be available to the states in support of efforts over and above the basic package which will be provided by the federal welfare statute. i ask unanimous consent that certain tables and explanatory information be printed in the record.
. i am certain that every senator regards responding to his mail as one of his most important functionsone way of his sensing the pulse beat of his constituents regarding the crucial issues of the day. as the ranking republican member of the select committee on nutrition and human needs and of the committee on labor and public welfare. i receive many letters regarding the problems of hunger. malnutrition. and poverty. however. i have  received a letter which has touched me more than the one i received a few weeks ago from an eighth grade student of the st. james institute in albany. n.y. theresa expressed feelings and views on hunger and poverty with a sophistication and understanding which one would expect from a well informed adult. she expressed the belief. which too few adults express. that hunger and poverty k color or racial boundary and went even further to point out. and rightfully so. that hunger and poverty often cause people to "rob from others." our country is deeply troubled on many fronts. at home and abroad. during such tension filled times. it is reassuring to k that there are young people. such as theresa. who understand the basic principle that men must be brothers and help one aher. i am proud of theresas letter and. therefore. wish to share it with my colleagues by asking unanimous consent that it be printed in the record together with my response. it is a good example of the goodwill. understanding. and faith possessed by so many of our young people.
. our country has been characterized as an affluent society. yet today there are untold thousands of retired workers living perilously close to the poverty level who feel deceived. betrayed. and even gyped by a private p1ension system in which they had placed their hopes and their trust. only the most brutally cynical can  say to these hapless.victims: "wellyou should have read the fine print in your pension plan. if you had. you would have realized that your chances of actually obtaining retirement benefits were really quite remote." . . i there is only one way to answer the. mounting cries of resentment and despair over a system that. even assuming the best of intentions. so persistently iges the human equation. and that is to enact legislation which establishes essential standards of equity for the workers covered by these plans and provides the mechanisms by which their hardearned pension credits can be protected against ecoic misfortune. let us  wait for massive tragedies like the studebaker closing to proliferate before we are convinced of the necessity for such action. by then our constituents may. be asking us to dismantle the private pension system. let us act  to preserve it. members interested in the pension study form of questionnaireform p--can -get a copy from me or senator wiliia&s. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in. the recoad the various newspaper articles afid other pertinent material on this subject. including my speech to the. united -steelworkers.
s original message concerning welfare reform: an incomemaintenance program at an adequate level may yet replace the food stamp program. but it would be folly to even consider initiating the transition before that level is established. under the present circumstances. our nations poor require an "expansion"- a phaseoutof food stamp and related programs until a clearly adequate family allowance plan is phased in . . . accordingly. i have cosponsored senator mcgoverns amendment to provide for distribution of food stamps with family assistance payments. and i am pleased that the administration.. in its resubmitted family assistance act. has taken some steps to interlock administration of the two programs.
the term "working poor" applies to families headed by fulltime working males with incomes below the poverty line-$3.720 for a family of four. in 1968. 39 percent of poor families with children came within this category. yet under the current program kn as aid to families with dependent childrenafdc--such families have  been eligible for welfare payments. there are approximately 11/2 million families in this category. consisting of about 7.8 million persons. the administrations proposed family assistance act eliminates this exclusion in respect to the federal eligibilitypayment standard. and under the proposed act. working families headed by males as well as those headed by females are eligible for a family assistance payment of $1.600 for a family of four. for the purposes of the federal :benefit payment. the familys net income is determined by deducting the first $720 in earnings plus onehalf of the remainder--other deductions ae allowed for costs of child care and for income earned by a student. and. as a general matter. the family then receives the difference between $1.600 and its net income. since the federal floor of $1.600 is less than the payment standard under afdc in 42 states. the proposed family assistance act requires the states to supplement -the federal payment for such recipients up to the payment level in effect in the state as of january 1970. or up to the poverty level. whichever is lower. the housepassed bill provides. for .30percent federal slaring in. the cost of these supplementary payments. however. matching is available for supplementary benefits paid to the "working poor"  is there any requirement in the act for the states to pay such benefits to the "working poor." the proposed family assistance act provides. as passed by the house. that supplementation must apply to: any family other than a family in which both parents of the child or children are present. neither parent is incapacitated. and the male parent is  unemployed. when he appeared before the committee on finance on july 21. 1970. secretary of health. education. and welfare elliot l. richardson ed thiee undesirable social consequences of the exclusion under current law. first. the exclusion constitutes a basic inequity. since working poor families may have financial need equal to that of families in which there is fulltime working male. yet they are unable to receive federal public assistance under current law. as the secretary ed: this unwise and unjust public policy has had predictable results in terms of social tensions. first. an understandable discontent has. been generated among those who are excluded and who see others worse off than they being assisted. second. omis racial overtones have developed since current afdc recipientsthose who are helpedare about 50 percent white. while the working poorthose who are excludedare about 70 percent vhite. this country can longer afford to have one of its most important and needed antipoverty efforts viewed by many of its citizens as a divisive. unfair.and arbitrary failure. such a view does  help to bring us together. does  promote understanding among people. and does  help to restore public confidence in the wisdom of our social policies. second. the exclusion produces an incentive for male heads of households to work less. rather than more. the current welfare program includes. in a number of states the "afdc unemployed fathers" program under which families headed by father working more than 30 hours per weekfor 35 hours. at each states optionare eligible. thus a father who is on welfare is better off working more than 30 hours a week. if he works more than that. he is suddenly longer "unemployed" and he loses assistance. i ask unanimous consent that a table indicating the states with afdcuf programs be printed in the rzcord at the conclusion of my remarks. third. the exclusion of the working poor has provided encouragement for families to dissolve or for couples never to marry. in situations in which a fulltime workingman is  making as much as the mother of his children could receive in welfare benefits. the couple is financially better off if the man leaves home. over 70 percent of the fathers of families currently on afdc are "absent from the home." . i ask unanimous consent that certain charts showing the states that provide aid in the various categories to which i have been referring. the nature of the supplemental aid by state. and the estimated caseload by state be printed in the record.
. during the first quarter of this year. while the national level of unemployment ranged between 4.4 and 4.9 percentthe unemployment rate among black teenagers in the poverty neighborhoods was 32.7 percentalmost onethird--compared with 20.9 percent in the first quarter of 1969. we can expect these conditions of unemployment to continue into the next year as a result of the efforts of the administration to cool down the ecoy. and even if the national unemployment rate should decline. the rate in poverty areas can be expected to remain at the high levels which i have indicated. i urge the congress. therefore.  only to recognize the great need for man4ugust 24. 1970 power funds to deal with thesecondi-. tions generally. but to take action  in anticipation of what will be obvious special needs as the summer approaches. if the recommendation which i have made for an increase of poverty funds is accepted. then the director of the office of ecoic opportunity would be in a position to allocate greater funds to the neighborhood youth corp support program in the course of regular planningrather than waiting. as is usually the case. until the middle of the summer.. however. should the senate committee decide  to allow additional funds under the poverty program. then i would consider proposing an amendment to increase the $744.494.000 set forth on page 2 of h.r. 18515. the appropriations bill for manpower development and training activities to $780.894.000 so as to provide the additional $36.400.000 necessary to bring the funding level for next summer up to the level for this summer. i conclude as follows: there are a number of ways in which we can measure our efforts to combat poverty. in the foregoing comments and in materials which i have submitted on particular programs. i have measured proposed efforts in terms of the portion of the target groups to be served. previous levels of funding and information as to the number of applications that have gone -unfunded in recent years. we can also measure these efforts and the sufficiency of funds in terms of the extent to which the funds requested will permit the office of ecoic oppor.tunity to fund new projects and efforts proposed. by those closest to the problems on the local level. in that connection. i ask unanimous consent that there be included in the record at this point. a table prepared by the office of ecoic opportunity entitled "fiscal year 1971 schedule of annualization and new starts." which indicates that of. the $2.080.200.000 requested for fiscal year 1971. only $167.100.000 would go for new efforts.
 nixon emphasized. one of the four fundamental principles of the act is "to provide equity to working poor families." while the administration has shown considerable foresight by including working poor families within the federal $1.600 benefit. the act unjustly excludes these families from the state supplemental benefit requirement. it is these individualsthe family headed by a fulltime working malewho are. in effect. helping themselves out of poverty and who deserve the encouragement and assistance to insure that they do  slide onto the welfare rolls. this exclusion of working poor families from the state benefit portion of the act produces three undesirable social consequences: first. the exclusion constitutes a basic inequity since working poor families may have financial need equal to that of families in which there is fulltime working male. yet they are unable to receive federal public assistance under current law. second. the exclusion produces an incentive for male heads of households to work less. rather than more. and. third. the exclusion of the working poor has provided encouragement for families to dissolve or for couples never to marry. the considerations which have prompted the administration to include the working poor under the basic federal payment apply equally in respect to the supplemental payment. finally as ed by assistant secretary of labor james rosow in the march 30. 1970. edition of the wall street journal. about 200.000 working poor families rise above the poverty line-$3.720 for an urban family of foureach year. to my mind. it is rather auspicious that such a plan does have state support and it is deserving of our serious consideration. rather than the upi account indicated. speaking the other way.
i rose to point out that the statements made by the govers were  slashing criticisms. i made statement of endorsement by new york or otherwise. new york and other states with emous populations need relief in the welfare situation. which is essential to the welfare of the country. and i shall be glad to debate it and will  be deterred from debating the subject by the epithet of its being a new york endorsement.
. if i may have the attention of the senator from louisiana. manager of the farm bill h.r. 18546. the amendment which i have sent to the desk proposes to add to h.r. 18546. the food stamp bill. s. 2547. which the senate passed a year ago by an emous vote of 78 to 14.and which the house has so far failed to act upon. i would like to point out that there has been considerable expansionin participation in the food stamp program during the past year with the number  reaching 6 million participants. however. there are still about 8 million americans who conceivably could be reached if we had appropriate legislation such as that which was passed by the senate. i am very pleased to learn. after conferring with the distinguished chairman of the select committee on nutrition and human needs. the socalled hunger committee. the senator from south dakota
. king that the senator from louisiana and the senator from south dakota feel as strongly as i do about the food stamp bill. with that explanation and assurance from the senators. i withdraw the amendment.
hence. we worked out this compromise so that when we get to the level of below 75.000 population. the states have to do it or it is  done. that is  too happy a situation. but that is made a rough rule of thumb. when we get above the 75.000. the states and local units of governments are really competing. that is what it comes down to. the decider is the secretary of labor. in order to give the state adequate play. as it were. we wrote in the requirement that before the secretary can act he has to have the states view. through the gover. it is  a veto. but. public life being what it is. it is a pretty potent thing. the gover does  have to be in a terrible flap about giving his views. the secretary may say. "we have waited 2 months and we are  going to wait longer." consistent with the fact that the majority was flatly against the concept which we espoused on the part of the administrationto wit. a state comprehensive manpower plan i think we did really preserve a very important role for the states. ifi repeatthe states want it. if the govers are animate. themselves. they can really run it within the bounds i have described. if the govers are going to be asleep and be against it. that fact does  hamstring the cities. it seems to me that is about as fair a compromise as we can make if we lose the main battle. which was that the states should run it. i do  look down my e at them. although i do  agree with them. but there are some people who argue that freedom requires that we should make a sacrifice. and if a state does  like a certain program. whether welfare or manpower training or poverty. that state ought to be able to veto it. freedom in the united states demands that kind of power in the states. to me. that is a reputable argument. i do  look down my e at anybody who makes it. i do  agree with him. but that is the essence of a very important ideological difference between me and many of those who think likewise and others here. on that ground. they should vote for the amendment of the senator from colorado at the least. the last point with respect to the dominick amendment is this. and i k he will-
. i wish to call to the attention of the senate the extraordinary record compiled by the distinguished miity leader in many areas: the fields of human needs and race relations. his understanding of the real missions of the private enterprise system in terms of the welfare of the people. and his perceptive understanding of the situation in the middle east and the need for good u.s.israel relations. i ask unanimous consent that a statement describing senator scotts record be printed in the record.
. i rise today to make three basic recommendations to the administration and to the congress for consideration during the coming months in respect to continuation of the poverty program. first. i urge that the administration and the congress support legislation to authorize appropriations for at least an additional 5 yearsthrough june 1976. i also recommend that we express a general longterm commitment to the elimination of poverty by giving the programs and the agency "permanent" status by eliminating the various "duration of programs" provisions. under which the basic authority for the existence of the office of ecoic opportunity. and for carrying out of the programs. would expire june 30. 1972. although programs could  be meaningfully continued without corresponding authorizations of appropriations even with the removal of these time limitations. we must express next year a longterm commitment. second. i urge that the extension be accompanied by a strong commitment on the part of the administration and the congress to the principle of involvement by community action agencies and other communitybased organizations. and a strong commitment to programs and activities that encourage meaningful selfhelp and selfdetermination by the poor. third. i hope that the administration and the congress will explore new ways of providing adequate funds for poverty programs. and new ways to increase the office of ecoic opportunitys ability to act as the independent advocate for the poor.
. the administrationwhich is. incidentally. more on the senators side than on mine in this matter. in my judgmentadmits it. they have the oeo right there. they are  going to play fast and loose. we feel in the legislative committee that we gave a few years for the transition. we fought to decide whether it should be 5 years or 3 years. they ought to have an opportunity to reshape the oeo. the poverty programs in the country should be oriented with the fact that hereafter they will be dealing substantially with the department of hew and the department of labor. it is  for the purpose of expertise or any other purpose. the senator from washington says that this is some brilliant legal move. it is. if i were on the senators side. i could give several ways in which the matters which the senator wants could be passed.
i thank the senator. i think it is only fair to say. under these circumstances. that robert kennedys initiative in bedfordstuyvesant. which goes on and prospers. was one of the most gifted taken in the whole poverty field. i am hoed to be able to help that program wherever i can. and i think the senate really should feel the same way.
. it would be ironic. indeed. if at this historic moment those liberal forces that have brought us to the threshold of welfare reform were to fall apart. missing this. perhaps the sole opportunity in the coming years. to effect a basic and needed reform. i can stand by and watch a proposal of such historic significance go down the drain either at the hands of those who regard it as providing too much or at the hands of those who view it as providing too little. it is deplorablebut a reality neverthelessthat it appears easier to take a step on the moon than to take one solid. meaningful step on behalf of the 24.4 million poor. who through fault of their own are unable to provide for themselves. we must make every effort to make the step for welfare reform a big onebut we should take a first step this session. nevertheless. as the somewhat more conservative members of the senate have had their opportunity to try to reduce the proposal to an experiment. so must liberals join together to endeavor to correct the major inadequacies of the proposal. but  at the price of seeing it go under . i feel. at the very least. the administration reform proposal should be reformed to: first. provide a truly adequate level of assistance. second. include coverage of the working poor in the supplemental payments as well as in the basic federal payment. third. exempt mothers of school age children from the work requirements of the bill. fourth. interlock the administrations family assistance plan with the food stamp program. and. fifth. refine provisions for federal administration. wage. manpower training. and childcare reforms so that the poor are respected as well as helped. and. i hope that the administration will see fit to include in any "package" that it may propose on the floor. a number of the proposals which i and other senators have advanced to this end. i urge. however. that senators of liberal view unite in basic support of the basic bill for a family assistance plan.
. the points made by the senator from indiana. insofar as they goand i emphasize that--are entirely valid. that is. there should be reinsurance of pension funds. the only dimiculty is that. approaching it as he does. the senator had better realize how much is involved in money. in premiums payable every year. and secondly. that we would be papering over a structure which is itself so vulnerable that i can predict the extent of the liability to the government if we do this in the manner proposed by the senator from indiana. what we are trying to do. by way of pension and welfare fund legislation. in the committee on labor and public welfare. is to arrive at a statute which has standards of vesting. funding. fiduciary responsibility. et cetera. all the hartke amendment does is provide reinsurance of the existing structure. whatever that may be. we all realize the disappointment which was suffered. for example. in respect to the studebaker failure. that is what set me thinking about this issue. and that is why i introduced the first pension bill in 1967. which included vesting. funding. reinsurance and fiduciary standards.  we have -worked up to the point where we have the committee on labor and public welfare making a comprehensive survey. at a cost of a quarter of a million dollars. as to what really is happening with respect to pension and welfare funds. and the point will beand the administration  recognizes that we must have legislation next yearthat we will then have standards of funding. vesting. and fiducary responsibility. i ask unanimous consent that a recent article in the wall street journal. which testifies to the administrations intentions. be inserted in the record at this point.
. i am able to say authoritativelyand a copy of the letter is on every senators deskthat the secretary of health. education. and welfare believes that this particular provision should be stricken from this bill. i ask unanimous consent that the letter from secretary elliot richardson to that effect be printed in the record at this point.
s acceptance of it and the declaration of his insistence. as one of the objectives of his presidency. that poverty in this country should  go to the extent of hunger. matter how hard it was to wrestle with. i think we owe a great deal to the practicality and human kindness of george murphy. he is a man of paradoxes. a businessman. as well as a great entertainer. i had seen him and enjoyed him many times before i encountered him here. he is a great raconteur. one could  find a happier companion than
. i feel that i can get as i am because a protest really must be made against this conference report. and the only way members have of protesting is by their action on it. i k that there is point to some dugin opposition. which i am  going to make. or some effort to block consideration. which i am  going to do. because. obviously. with senator mcgoverns most reluctant feeling that this is the best that can be done. that is the way it is going to be done. i wish to express myself in protest of what is being done and to pledge my efforts. with those of senator mcgovern andi was very pleased to hearsenator miller.to correct the real injustices which are being perpetrated. specifically. i refer to the work requirement which i hope can and will be dealt with in future welfare legislation.
 has called for a "new american revolution"-a peaceful revolution in which power is to be turned back to the peopleand in which government at all levels is made more responsible. as he ed: it can mean that just 5 years from  america will enter its third century as a young nation new in spirit. with all the vigor and freshness with which it began its first century. we will  enter our third century in the manner hoped for unless we have made substantial headway in achieving the goal set forth in the ecoic opportunity act: to eliminate the paradox of poverty in the midst of plenty in this nation by opening to everyone the opportunity to work and the opportunity to live in decency and dignity i hope therefore that the administrationin addition to the goals relating to federalstate relations and the reorganization of the federal government itselfwill establish certain goals relating directly to poverty so that we can approach our centennial with justified feeling that we are gaining and will eventually win this crucial battle. in that connection. i hope that the administration will reinstate the practice of preparing a 5year poverty plan. indicating what the federal strategy against poverty will be between  and our bicentennial celebration.
s committee on employment of the handicapped. among the organizations submitting testimony in support were the american association of workers for the blind. the american foundation for the blind. the general council of workshops for the blind. the goodwill industries of america. the international association of rehabilitation facilitiesformerly the national association of sheltered workshops and homebound programs and the association of rehabilitation centers. the national association for retarded children. the national easter seal society for crippled children and adults. the national industries for the blind. the national rehabilitation association. and the united cerebral palsy association of america. the proposed legislation is  a welfare measure. it is a harded proposal to help those who have choice but to help themselves. the blind and the other severely handicapped wish to be selfsupporting and to be taxpayers.  tax burdens. this legislation would provide a significantly increased number of opportunities for work for those who otherwise might be relegated to institutions. to welfare programs or supported by already burdened families. after 33 years of successful operation. the wagneroday act must  be strengthened. in conclusion. i wish to express my gratification that the senator from west virginia is a cosponsor of this bill. as a member of the house. he was a coauthor of the randolphshepherd act which for the past 35 years has benefited blind vendors in public buildings. he has long been a pioneer in the effort to help the blind become productive citizens. as they are well able. i think it is most heartening that he has lent himself to this effort as well.
. before we leave that answer. if i may interject. i think we should e that there is a possibility of doing what the senator has in mind. but. again.  with the kind of entity he had in mind when he asked the question. i refer to a local service company. a truly local poverty based type of corporation. which i think we are very anxious to encourage. and  to discourage.
more than profit. it is defined on page 37 of the bill. lines 17 to 22. and it means owned or operated in substantial part by unemployed or lowincome residents of the area to be served. so that it is uniquely our effort in selfhelp in the poverty field. i wish it were appreciajle. but i fear it will  be. in terms of actual figures of employment.
i have discussed that with the senator from wisconsin. that would be a very desirable improvement. and i thoroughly agree that on a shortterm bill. we should leave out the complexities of the matter of retirement. i think the senator from ohio has made a distinct contribution to the bill in that respect. as to the other parts of his amendment. there is considerable concern. if we set a roof of $500 on compensation. for example. and a man has four. five. or six children. he is within the poverty level at $500 a month. as a matter of fact. under present conditions he is probably within the poverty level at $500 a month with two children.
i think senator pastore put his finger on it earlier when he pointed out that we are  dealing only with welfare clients. we are dealing with people who are highpriced. highly skilled union people. and we are dealing with a secretary whose duty it will be to make this thing go the furthest for different segments of the population. personally. i think the senator from ohio hamstrings the secretary too much in what the senator is proposing. and he flies in the face of every union and other tradition with respect to the employment of people who are  welfare cases. i have suggested a way outto give the secretary egh discretion to make the money go the furthest without running afoul of the very people who feel very deeply about the prevailing wage concept because of their own origin. background. and future. if the senators amendment is rejected. i shall propose mine. and i am rather helpful that it will be agreed to.
would the senator allow me to say one thing before i forget it. the administration is opposed to the stennis amendment. and i would like to read the letter of the secretary of health. education. and welfare on that score. i shall  read the personal references. -though they will all be in the record: the bill in its present form is supported by the administration. we oppose all the amendments currently before the senate. which have been offered by senators erviln and stennis. because they have  received consideration comparable to that given the bill itself and because they would undermine the purposes of the bill.
. i submit an amendment to h.r. 8190. the second supplemental appropriations bill to increase to $157.428.359 the supplemental appropriation to be made available for the neighborhood youth corps programs for this summer. the program includes the summer job program. providing work experience for disadvantaged 14- to 21yearolds with profit and public sponsors and the recreational support program. providing assistance for programs benefiting children 8 to 13 years of age. in this effort i am joined by the following cosponsors:  of the subcommittee on employment. manpower and poverty of that committee. senators cranston. eagleton. and mondale. of that committee and senators bayh. brooke. case. hart. humphrey. mcgovern. and
 nixon cited the increasing frustration of the american people with their governmental institutions. in response he stated: we hear you and will give you a chance. we are going to give you a new chance to have more to say about the decisions that affect your futureto participate in governmentbecause we are going .to provide more centers of power where what you do can make a difference that you can see and feel in your own life and the life of your own community. the special impact and.rural cooperative programs have been founded on this very element of decisionmaking at the community level and the sense of community which develops. if we are really serious about "putting the power where the people are" then we must provide assistance in a framework which will let those who struggle in the ghettos. barrios. and rural and other poverty pockets and a concerned private sector work together. i believe that the gap between these areas and the socalled "establishment" can be bridged most effectively through selfdetermination. for only in that way will we arrest the deterioration of the spirit as well as the physical decay in our inner cities. i hope very much that the administration will give favorable consideration to this proposal. which as i have ed. reflects so much its own analysis of the situation in the country as a whole. the military selective service trict of columbia committee in room actamendment 6222. new senate office building.
. i invite the attention of the senate to two important new ecoic development programs which have been undertaken by opportunity funding corporation. opportunity funding corporation is a profit organization funded by the office of ecoic opportunity. it was formed for the purpose of conducting activities designed to demonstrate and test the effectiveness of various incentive techniques in attracting private resources to areas characterized by low incomes and unemployment. ofc constitute an important experimental effort to determine to what extent. and in what ways. the vast resources of the private sector can be brought to bear on the problems of urban and rural poverty and underdevelopment. i believe. therefore. that ofc represents both a purpose and an effort to which all of us in congress can give our fullest support. for it has become clear that public spending alone. without the commitment and participation of the private sector. can solve the massive problems we  face. the two new programs annced by ofc are a miity bank deposit program. designed to strengthen local financial institutions in poverty impacted areas. and a bonding program to assist construction contractors from such areas. through these programs banks representative of such miities will be granted the use of $4 million in deposits. the interest on which will be used to provide management development training for the bank employees. and an additional $1 million will be used to enable contractors from the miities to bid on and perform construction contracts in poverty impacted communities. these new initiatives are described in a statement by dr. david b. hertz. chairman of the board of govers of opportunity funding corporation. i ask unanimous consent that his statement be printed in the record.
. the senator from south dakota mentioned the state of new york. i state for the information of the senate that there is an area. in which matter how hard we try to reduce the welfare load. we are  succeeding. though there are many things underway. including better facilities for work training and for child day care. which will help. here is a most felicitous way of combining the contribution of agriculture. the farmers. and the people of the cities so that the welfare load in a very substantive way. through the use of food. can be substantially lightened. i join with the senator from south dakota in hoping very much that we will move ahead rather than stand pat. his amendment would enable us to move ahead. the conferees will have in mind what can be a very felicitous addition to the total load we are trying to help carry in an intelligent way in this country.
let me finish the statement. in short. what i predict. . is that this is a reform. whether desirable or  we can argue. which certainly is  desirable. in my view of things. at the point where we  stand in respect to the welfare plan of the country
. i am terribly sad to hear what the senator from new hampshire said because i believe he should appreciate the great pressure that senators from states like mine are under by financial exigencies of our states. and it is very trying when such a devastating cut has been made in the whole welfare situationin new york. for exampleand there has been a tremendous social outcry. i submit that because of the humanitarianism and the fairness of -the senator from new hampshire.
as a result of some of my discussions with some of the miity members who feel strongly on the poverty bill. i thought we had better take the precaution on this one that this unanimousconsent agreement will apply whenever the bill is called up.
 reference was made to the provision of the senator from georgia . the talmadge provision applies to welfare workers and the estimate of cost there is $25 million. it is a drop in the bucket. this is a situation in which if we spend money we get results and if we do  spend money we do  get results. in the talmadge amendment we are talking about a small number of employees. let us  get a mote in our eyes on this substantial proposition. the senator from louisiana and the senator from utah are distinguished and conservative men. if this goes in the bill it will be in conference. the idea will have been certified by the senate. i believe it is the only way to get direct jobs.
will the senator be good egh to wait until senator percy gets back. i would be unable to do so on his behalf. the senator from illis wishes me to explain to the senate that the reasons for the amendments to his amendment are the following: first. the cutback of the date to july 1. 1972 results in making it a 1year instead of a 2year operative period for this amendment to take effect. the result of cutting back the date when the amendment freezes benefit levels which various states share from june 30. 1971 to december 31. 1970 is to deal with the problem of eight states where welfare cutbacks were made prior to june 30. 1971. hence. if the amendment took effect with the benefit levels frozen at june 30. 1971. certain of the recipients. who had already had cutbacks. would have further cutbacks. -and therefore the date of december 31. 1970. avoids that situation and retains the status quo among the states. as these cutbacks were dictated by the relationship between the states and the federal government. the eight states which are benefited under senator percys amendment by that particular change are alabama. delaware. georgia. louisiana. new mexico. new york. south dakota. and washington. may i say at once that as far as my state of new york is concerned. though i shall vote with senator percy. it does  represent. according to the facts and figures as analyzed for me by our state authorities. any appreciable matter for the state of new york. so i do  speak personally. it is just my conviction that this is a very desirable amendment in terms of the totality of the country. rather than its having any particular benefit for new york. for new york. it makes a modest difference. but it does  mean egh for us to have offered such an amendment. or for me necessarily to join in it. except as a matter of conviction as a senator. . the welfare problem is probably the most difficult for all of the states. for my state as well as most other states. and for the great cities. of course. it is simply unbelievable. the increases in the welfare rolls. in the course of the last years. have run to 200 and 300 percent in the larger cities. and the city of new york. being the largest. gets the worst rap in that regard. what has happened is literally a massive demographic shift of the population of the country. and the artificialbecause today. in ecoic and social terms. they are artiflicialbarriers drawn around cities by prerevolutionary political lines have literally stranded them. without any real ecoic or social base. one can move. i suppose. from any major city into its suburbs. and they are absolutely indistinguishable. that is certainly true of the city of new york. moving between new york city and any one of our major boroughs. you would  k it unless you saw a sign. that is true in social and ecoic terms. this has happened because of the diminution in the farm population. with the heavy emphasis upon farm population in the south. there have been most drastic shifts of population in our country. substituting for the mal taxpaying or ratepaying middle class of the cities an emous population of very low income. and. in addition to having a very low income. having grave shortages in skills and tremendous social problems attributable to racial and ecoic background. as in the city of new york. where today probably somewhere between onequarter and 30 percent of the city is composed of blacks and puerto ricans. in due course. they will be splendid citizens. and we will be happy that they came. but right  it is very tough. because this is the period of change and gestation. i saw figures this morning on one city which were really unbelievable. the city of boston. where the shift has had less of an impact. perhaps. than on detroit. chicago. or any of a number of other great cities. in the committee presided over by the senator from connecticut
. the conference bill. a colloquy which senator nelson and i engaged in when the conference report was considered on the floor and an identical colloquy in the house. make it clear that the secretary of health. education. and welfare will have ample authority to turn down an application of a local unit of government and insure a significant role for the states in order to guarantee the high quality of programs. i ask unanimous consent that the colloquy. taken from the congressional record of december 2. 1971. be printed at this point in the record.
the senator from nebraska has just introduced a bill to carry out a part of the administrations proposals respecting pension and welfare funds. the reform of which i have been working on for a long time. and of which the labor and public welfare committee was authorized to make a rather complete inquiry. which the senator from new jersey . i. and other senators have been considering. part of the administrations measure was referred to the committee on labor and fublic welfare. and i wish to state  that bill will be introduced later in the day. so that both bills will be before the senate respecting the administrations program. i welcome the administrations initiative. i do  think it is going far egh. but it is certainly most gratifying that it has moved in this direction. i hope that we in the committee can cooperate with the administration to bring about these magnificent benefits for the millions in private pension and welfare plans.
. for these reasons i urge that the bill be passed so that these vital programs may continue while we act to provide a new legislative base for job and training programs which are so vital to our efforts to combat poverty and to give meaning to efforts of our people to support themselves.
. there is something of a programand i will point out why i say "something of a program"-on socalled workfare. of taking people off welfare through work. it is said. "let us see how this works for a few years. let us take it easy." the very distinguished senator from louisiana. who is odys fool. will be up here on the floor of the senate. in the chair  occupied by the senator from washington arguing. "you gave $450 million to try this out. why dont you try it out and see how it works before you try welfare. and we will delay any additional welfare legislation. the welfare reform debate is beginning. the reason for implementing this at this time in this way is to add aher string to the bow to defeat welfare reform. there is hing wrong with the talmadge amendment standing alone. it affects a small part of the welfare program. even with $435 million. etheless it is a string to the bow to defeat welfare reform. let us see how true welfare reform compares with the talmadge amendment. talmadge continues the inequitable situation which exists today where families headed by unemployed fathers are  included. and the working poor are  covered at all. thus they perpetuate the welfare system which gives a working or unemployed father incentives to leave his family so they can receive benefits. the talmadge amendments attempt to deal with the severe dual agency and multijurisdictional coordination problems of win by requiring joint dol and dhew issuance of regulations and by establishing joint committees at the state and regional levels. these requirements are  likely to solve the basic problems. the state es agencies will continue to be dependent on the welfare agencies as their sole source of supportive services. regardless of whether or  these agencies can supply the services. moreover. one agency will have responsibility. and therefore be accountable for the win program. the diffusion of authority between the two federal agencies and between different levels of government is likely to continue to hamper win performance. the talmadge amendments do expand the manpower services authorized or possible for dol under the win program. unlike h.r. 1. however. the amendments contain allocation formulas that are likely to restrict or constrain efficient management and prevent the placing of resources where the greatest need is. the talmadge amendments leave untouched the basic work incentive problems in win of vast variations in basic benefit levels and the limiting of earnings disregards to female heads. as a result. male heads of families in the win program will continue to have monetary incentive to take fulltime jobs. and the monetary incentives for female heads to go to work will continue to vary significantly between states. in states with low benefit levels. a fulltime job would make a female head of a family ineligible for supplemental income benefits even at very low rates of pay. and thereby weaken the incentive to work. the talmadge amendments will continue to leave the application of sanctions to a number of different state. county. and city welfare agencies. in addition. the 60day counseling provision has been left untouched. as a result. the uneven application of sanctions is still a problem with which we must deal. the talmadge amendments will continue the present reliance on the state welfare department as the sole delivery agency. with a resulting lack of authority for the manpower agency to secure child care directly when needed. moreover. the talmadge amendments make provision for correcting the shortage of physical facilities. i am  going to try to extend this. i k the amendment of the senator from louisiana will be accepted. but i did want to spread this view on the record so that we all might be aware of the situation. this is  standing alone. the talmadge amendment was passed and  we are funding it with a half billion dollars. but this will be used as one of the blocking agents with reference to welfare reform. i hope that we realize the problem is  being met by the talmadge amendments. true welfare reform is eventually required by the country. and it should  be frustrated by the passage of an amendment such as this.
may i ask the senator aher question. i think at this stage of the proceedings. at this stage of the day on this matter. senators can well make up their minds whether. before friday night. they do or do  want a bill to deal with problems of poverty in the country. i would like to ask the senator whether he would  feel it fair. so that the senate may go on with its business. if we had a clearer idea from those who feel that perhaps they do  want an antipoverty bill. i think we could probably have a better idea where we go from here. all of us ki am sure the senator from west virginia agreesthat there is hing to make the congress act or to make any senator act. i do  think it makes a very good impression on the country. in respect to an antipoverty bill. where we are dealing with a situation that relates to a human and humane bill. to play parliamentary games. so i ask my colleague the question. as this affects 26 million americans who are poor and look to this as their hope. is the senator of the same disposition as i am. to let those who feel that they want to block this bill simply make that clear to the country. they k just how to do it. it is  hard to do it. one or two senators can do it. we do  need a lot of them. that is the best the rest of us can do. it is unfortunate. but it is true. i ed that my colleague the senator from florida spoke of dignity. the dignity of the poor is important. i think this is an element of their dignity. they. too. are entitled to k whether those in this body who feel they simply do  want this bill are going to have their way right . then the rest can take counsel and be guided accordingly and act accordingly.
the senator from vermont raised the point the other day. i did  stop to deal with it then. but i will tomorrow. i believe. in all honesty. the only thing that section deals with is evaluation of poverty related programs. i may say to the senator that we have already adopted an amendment which authorizes every department to do its own evaluation. i really feel we have dealt with the problem the senator has pointed out.
. it is for those reasons that while i deeply appreciate the views which have been expressed here. i must oppose the amendment. i would like also to make this point. i would like to hear those same views backed by votes when we are talking about increasing the neighborhood youth corps $200 million or $250 million and when we are talking about increasing the manpower development programs. the poverty programs. and the other youth programs which come before us for authorization and appropriation. it seems to me that those are the proper channels in which to act. i hope very much that my colleague. whom i greatly respect. and those others who use various guises. and this is one of themthe youth differentialwill have this in mind when their turn comes to vote on legislation which will very materially promote the opportunities for youth without in any way prejudicing the opportunity of adults in terms of employment. for those reasons i am constrained to join with the manager of the bill in opposing the amendment.
and this appropriation. in both houses. is materially over the budget. what are we doing if we sent it back and write that in. the president is going to veto it. because it is over the budget. please correct me. i am confident of the senators deepest sincerity. tell me if i am wrong. i will be glad to be persuaded. i k of prouder words in the english language. it seems to me that states like my own. which are in terrible trouble and have prospect of getting welfare help or revenuesharing help from the federal government in the immediate future. have got to look for something like this. at least. all the factors. pro and con. ought to be considered in a legislative way. if it is  going to affect the amount of this appropriation bill at all. why should we write into it this ceiling. determined  by a legislative committee. but by an appropriation committee. what is the reason for it.
many areas have been pointed out. i do  think there is a part of the bill that has  been the subject of some comment. scrutiny. or consideration. but i have emphasized those that have come in for the most discussion as being the authorization. the legal services corporation. and general conditions with respect to the poverty programs in the communities. there are various phases of the bill which relate to authorization addons. there are provisions respecting a new approachor at least a more modern approachto headstart. all these things have come in for more detailed discussion since the conferees agreed. senator nelson has continued to talk with the house conferees. and it is a common judgment that we should try again. but i think i would be arrogating to myself an authority which i do  possess to delimit for the senator specific areas of the bill that will undergo change and others that will . the bill will be wide open in every section to all the conferees. as i have said. they are very independent and very gifted men.
i wish to say to the senator that i am against a ceiling in this matter and i will explain why. i certainly have an open mind on his point and i will consider it very seriously. it needs. of course. to be juxtaposed according to what regulations hew will impose. because they will impose regulations. and i certainly think the senators suggestion is worthy of consideration. the reason for my opposition to the ceiling is that there is ceiling on the number of welfare recipients or the impact of the welfare program. there is ceiling on distress. we are spending $6.6 billion on a nationwide basis on welfare. in 1972 our expenditure. the actual distribution under this program. was $1.449 billion. even the departments may estimates. which are to be juxtaposed with this lurid figure of $20 billion. were $1.759 billion. that is on the chart i have already placed in the record. obviously if they tighten up even further on the regulations. that figure would go down. so until there is some kind of handle on distress. on the welfare situation. other than in terms of the regulations and the conditions. and perhaps the sharinghow much the federal government comes in fori do  k how a ceiling can be imposed. that does  mean we can get into the fiscal part. and we should. and i will lend my interest to that. however. we would cut off at the neck large industrial states which are heavily impacted with this problem if a ceiling as has been discussed were imposed on welfare. so in my opinion the approach should be hew regulations and a good hard look. as the senator from new hampshire said. at the percentages. but  an arbitrary ceiling which takes into consideration one element of the total welfare picture and says that we are going to put a ceiling on that. we might as well put a ceiling on the sea unless you are going to further beggar the states which are already in trouble on this score.
. i would hope very much that the amendment of the senator from louisianawhich only adds a ceiling to the ceiling upon the particular propositionwould be defeated in view of the national responsibility which is involved in the demographic shift and which affects new york. michigan. pennsylvania. illis. california. and many other states. one final word: i would like to read from the finance committee report. at page 65. the committee says: the secretaryto wit. the secretary of health. education. and welfareby law. is given specific authority to limit the contracting authority for social services and to limit the extent of services to potential (as opposed to actual) welfare recipients. so the argument we had yesterday and today respecting who has authority to put on a substantive ceiling by regulation is solved by the finance committees own report. he can do it. he should do it. and i have doubt he will do it. it seems to me that very adequate provision is made by the amendment of the senator from delaware to deal with any danger that we could convey that there is going to be an excess in this situation. without at the same time strangling. in the absence of other programs which are promised but  delivered. the states which have taken emous migrations of population from the very states which are complaining the strongest. including louisiana. because those people have exercised their right as americans to shift from a place where they were  happy to a place where they thought they would be happy. we ought to help that.  inhibit it. or we ought to at least try to adopt a decent attitude toward it. that would be the substance of the roth amendment. so i hope very much that the long amendment to the roth amendment will be defeated.
 in signing the senatehouse conference report on the ecoic opportunity amendments of 1972. which senator gaylord nelson and i introduced last december in the senate after the unfortunate veto of the previous measure. the ecoic opportunity amendments of this 2year extension should be a sign to the poor and to those who labor so hard in the poverty program that the administration joins with the congress in the effort to break the cycle of poverty essentially through the continuation of the office of ecoic opportunity on the national level and of community action agencies on the local level. the bill authorizes a total of $4.7 billion over the 2year period. fiscal years 1973 and 1974. for continued efforts in manpower training. preschool education. vista. alcohol and drug rehabilitation. community action. legal services. health and other vital antipoverty activities. importantly. it includes a provision which i authored with senator kennedy to establish a new title for community ecoic development. expanding on the base of the special impact program under the ecoic opportunity act which has demonstrated such effectiveness in dealing with the problems of the poor in bedfordstuyvesant. n.y. and throughout the country. i am pleased also with the inclusion of provisions. to which i had the privilege of contributing. to increase funds available for antipoverty efforts in the commonwealth of puerto rico. and to insure more equitable treatment of the aged poor. it is regrettable that the bill does  include the proposal for the establishment of a national legal services corporation. which has the general support of the administration and the congress. despite our efforts. an accommodation between the parties could  be reached upon key elements of the proposal. such as the composition of the board of directors. i intend to pursue that initiative legislatively at the earliest appropriate moment and. in the meantime. shall seek additional funds for the existing legal services program. which will continue under the extension. and which has been so effective in contributing to the dignity of the poor. as well as the maintenance of ther basic rights. of course. we must also move forward on comprehensive child development legislation which was in the vetoed measure and which is awaiting action by the house after being passed by the senate as a separate measure. it is my hope that the administration will couple todays action with a determination to support efforts which i and others shall make to provide more adequate resources for the implementation of this new authorization and mandate so that the nations 24 million poormore than a tenth of our populationwill be given real hope that the federal governments purpose is to erase the chronic condition of poverty which clouds our otherwise beneficent society.
. senator buckley and i were apprised unfortunately late with respect to alleged serious deprivation resulting from certain ceilings under the social security laws on money for guam. puerto rico. and the virgin islands for welfare programs. we decided it was just too hasty and too complicated to move into . may i have the assurance of the chairman that that will be looked into.
. i would like to make some remarks regarding the reform of private pension and welfare plans. the majority. apparently. has made up its mind  to permit the bill. which has  gone through the committees on labor and public welfare and finance. and is a very well articulated bill. to be scheduled for floor consideration here. the senator from michigan
is it  a fact that where a bill goes on the calendar through the use of the procedure here. it is hardly to be expected that a committee. when the bill has  been referred to it by the senate so that its recommendations and amendments have been sought. will move into the matter as a volunteer. especially in view of the extremely crowded calendar which it itself has. including minimum wage. pension. and welfare reform. and a host of other matters.
. it has been reported to me that on yesterday the majority leader gave certain assurances. in my absence. about very early consideration. in the next session. of the bill for reform of welfare and pension funds.
i thank the senator. in the figures for the south alone in 1968. 78 percent of the pupils were in schools that were 80 to 100 percent miities. by the time 1971 had come around. that was estimated to be down to 32 percent. in the category of 100 percent miity. it was down to 9 percent. from 68 percent. and we did worse than that in the th. because of the segregated living patterns. see the emous distance we have traveled. . i ask unanimous consent .to have printed in the record the report of the department of health. education. and welfare to which the chart is attached.
 on september 19. 1972. the fact of the matter -is that in the antipoverty amendments of 1972. provision was made under section 401(b) (1) to relate the two programs so that areas eligible for assistance under the poverty law will be considered redevelopment areas within the definition of section 401 of the public works and ecoic development act of 1965. which is being here amended. the question i would like to ask the senator is whether the provision which is contained in the oeo act. as amended. would  apply to the ecoic development act as  amended.
. the opportunity funding corp.--ofca private. profit organization established with a $7.4 million grant from the office of ecoic opportunity. held its annual meeting in washington october 4. a list of the members of its board of govers is attached. the objective of this organization is to demonstrate that inative applications of riskreduction and other indirect financing techniquesguaranties. discounting. incentivecan increase the flow of private capital into lowincome communities. on july 15. 1971. i called to the attention of the senate the launching of the first two programs annced by opportunity funding corp.-its bank deposit program. designed to strengthen local financial institutions in poverty impacted areas. and a bonding program to assist miity construction contractors from such areas. at that time i said thatofc constitutes an important experimental effort to determine to what extent. and in what ways. the vast resources of the private sector can be brought to bear on the problems of urban and rural poverty and underdevelopment. on that occasion i also introduced ment by david b. hertz. board chairman of ofc. describing those first two ofc programs and and ing that ofc would in the future be anncing additional programs including a program to provide flexible loan guarantees. a real estate development program. a program to make increased amounts of sba loan money available for plant and facilities loans in poverty communities. and a consumer credit program. i am happy to e that today all of those programs but one have been annced and are  operational. i e from the materials distributed at its annual board of govers meeting that ofc has achieved an overall leverage factor of approximately 23:1that is. every dollar of ofc funds set aside for reserves against possible losses has produced $23 from other sources. predominantly private sector sources. thus. with only a relatively small amount of federal funds. ofc in its short history has already demonstrated how taxpayer dollars when used as a catalystand a means of malizing the risks of investment in the poverty community--can generate significant investment for the ecoic development of these areas. ofc also published a preliminary summary and firstyear findings of its banking and bonding program. these findings. included in a new ofc publication entitled "case studies and firstyear findings of ofcs banking and contractor bonding programs." are summarized as follows:
. i shall  take the time of the senate further. i have made my point. i hope very much to get a record vote on this conference report. i hope very much it can be turned down. as we did last night. because of the manifest unfairness that a group of states and a group of people. through fault of their own. are being shut out arbitrarily and discriminatorily from federal assistance. and being forced on the welfare rolls. i think they are entitled to be heard here as well as anyone. and i intend t6 speak for them if i can.
. i have made inquiry as to this cut myself. because i wanted to be sure it does  affect the miity of the committee that the senator from nevada has chaired with great equality and fair ness. we do have an open slot on the committee for the miity. assigned to the miity. that slot has been open for a few months. which is one of the reasons the money is being turned back. i insisted on recruiting real firstrate personnel. and that is  always very easy to come by. we had a man for a number of years who was excellent for the miity. we will have a new one shortly. i wanted to be positive and have the assurance of the chairmar. of the committee that this will be an effort to improve the committee. because the committee felt that aher staff member was needed. however. it should  in any way reduce the number of slots to the miity. i understand that it is  the case. under those circumstances. i would concur with the senator. i think the committee is doing splendid work. and when. as. and if we face the senator from wisconsin . chairman of the subcommittee on drugs and pharmaceuticals. as well as the chairman of anumber of the other subcommittees. the subcommittee on welfare assistance and many others. i would join with him in getting sufficient staff pursuant to the assurance of the chairman of the committee.
. i am pleased to join with senator walter mondale. democrat. of minnesota. in s. 1220. a bill to bar restrictions by the secretary of health. education. and welfare imposed by regulations on the availability and use of federal funds authorized for social services under the social security act. we are joined by a bipartisan group of 47 senators including the following members of the miity: senators brooke. case. cook. hatfield.
. i ask unanimous consent that the letter from the secretary of health. education. and welfare transmitting the proposed legislation. a summary of the bill. and the text of the bill itself be printed at this point in the record.
 would thereafter appoint the 20 directors. with the advice and consent of the senate. for 4year terms on a staggered basislc directors appointed every 2 years. fourteen of the directors would be from the private sector6 from business and finance. 2 from organized labor. 2 from private social welfare organizations or foundations which deal with the problems of poverty. 2 representing the general public. and 2 representatives from education. the remaining six directors would be from government. including federal. state. and local government. i am submitting an amendment. intended to be proposed by me. to the bill to establish a federal financing bank. to provide for coordinated and more efficient financing of federal and federally assisted borrowing from the public. and for other purposes.
. on march 14. 1973. senator mondale and i. joined by 41 cosponsors of both parties. introduced s. 1220. a bill to place restrictions on the secretary of health. education. and welfare imposing the regulations on the availability and use of federal funds authorized for social services under the social security act. we were joined by the following cosponsors: mr. abourezk.
the other question relates to the welfare amendment. we asked the senator to change a word there to make it "due consideration." simply because we wanted to be sure to rebut any idea that we were creating aher preferential class. we have a preferential class for veterans. we do  wish to create a preferential class for those on welfare as such. although many may fall into the category of "ecoically disadvantaged" which is a focus of our bill.
. i agree with the senator from minnesota. we desperately need machinery. the joint ecoic committee has done a very commendable job on looking into questions like the welfare question. but they can be expected to go into the whole range of social and budgetary questions. and we need an independent office to do it. and a busy committee like the committee on labor and public welfare itself can deal with all the priority issues and should . as they cut across jurisdictional lines. that is a simple illustration of why it is necessary to segregate out these problems and deal with them appropriately.
. i join in the explanation of the ranking miity member on this side. at the same time. i wish to say that the frank cummings referred to in this colloquy was my administrative assistant. i think we all. and especially i. owe to him the origination of the idea of this bill. which he picked up from a report that the committee used in the kennedy administration. he really started me on this effort to bring about pension and welfare reform. which has since been carried on by his successor. mr. mike gordon.
. first. i would like 15 minutes tomorrow to deal with a pension and welfare fund situation. we have spoken about that to the deputy majority leader. but he is  in the chamber. i would be happy to speak at 9:45 a.m.. if that suits the senate.
. recent regulations. promulgated by the u.s. department of agriculture. should be brought to the attention of all who are concerned with the food stamp program. they concern the participation of puerto rico in the food stamp program and they indicate that the legislative intent will  be fulfilled. usda has annced that only five rural municipalities will receive food stamps by june 30. 1974. the statutory deadline. the rest of the island will have to wait for months. the residents of san juan will have to wait an incredible 8 months until march 1975. as you will recall. we enacted numerous amendments to the food stamp legislation in 1971. among those many amendments was legislation that first permitted puerto rico. guam. and the virgin islands to set up the food stamp program. then. in 1973. we required every political subdivision in the united states. puerto rico. guam. and the virgin islands to implement the program by june 30. 1974. the only legitimate excuse for failing to implement the program by that deadline. according to our present legislation. is if it is administratively impossible or impracticable to get the program implemented in a particular political subdivision. thus. in puerto rico for example. if the commonwealths social services department can get the program implemented. or aher agency of the commonwealth can get the program operational. or a municipality such as san juan can start the program by the june 30 deadline. then it must be accomplished. if it can be started by that date. it must be implemented at the earliest possible moment by the first feasible method. in short. the people are to receive their food stamp benefits without further delay. because the present legislation offers the hope for new and important assistance for puerto rico. the recent regulations are of considerable significance. these regulations were to establish coupon allotment criteria in conformity with amendments that we passed in 1971. under the legislative provisions. coupon allotments were intended to reflect the cost of obtaining a nutritionally adequate diet in puerto rico. unfortunately. the u.s. department of agricultures recent regulations do  follow this clear formula and. instead. establish substantially lower benefits than the ones set for the 50 states. a family of four. for example. will only receive $122 worth of stamps each month10 percent less than a mainland family of four receives. since the formula for setting coupon allotments is identical in puerto rico as it is for the 50 states. and because that standard is the "cost of obtaining a nutritionally adequate diet." it is evident that any divergent coupon allotments for the 50 states and puerto rico would have to be based on the comparative costs for the same items of food. since food costs in puerto rico are higher than food costs in the united states. substantially as a result of puerto ricos dependence upon produce shipped from the continent. it is inconceivable that the department of agriculture could have set such lower coupon allotments for the island and still believe that it complied with the legislation. the regulations clearly frustrate the statutory objectives. as to aher serious matter. the eligibility criteria. they too were set at discriminatorily low levels in contravention of the legislation. the statute requires eligibility criteria to "reflect the average per capita income in puerto rico and the respective territories." as the statute clearly indicated. the congress wanted eligibility standards to be based on the individual per capita income statistics of puerto rico and the territories. so that eligibility could be determined by multiplying the respective statistics by the number of members in a household. as with coupon allotment determinations. the only limitation was that eligibility criteria for puerto rico and the territories would  exceed the criteria utilized in the united states. this. however. is a far cry from permitting the egregiously low eligibility criteria that have just been set by the agriculture department. i call on the secretary to repromulgate regulations that will allow the impoverished people of puerto rico their rights to be free from hunger and malnutrition. a right which has been guaranteed to all american citizens by this congress.
the term is for 3 years. that is a commissioners term. and the staggering would come only to get the commission going and to have a revolving membership. so there is a rollover from the very beginning. and it will continue with two such prestigious cabinet officials as the secretary of state and the secretary of health. education. and welfare as the base for the commission. i do  think we need have any concern about the disorientation of the commission. besides which. this will be a commission like the smithsonian or the national gallery of art. or one of the other great commissions made up of very distinguished people which function so successfully in the field of arts.
reserving the right to object. . i have been made acquainted with the general outlines of what is proposed. and with the permission of the deputy majority leader who is always so extremely prepared that i apologize for inserting the details. but this really did get to be quite a unique situation. i would simply like to repeat the following: what is pending is a motion made by senator cranston in the name of senator nelson. who is the chairman of the subcommittee on poverty to concur in the house amendment. that would mean that if that motion were passed by the senate. the bill would go immediately to the white house. so if the senator will allow me. i would like to ask. as a parliamentary inquiry. whether that is correct.
 for his signature. i would add only one word of caution to my colleagues. as i have indicated. we can justly be proud of our speedy efforts at initiating this stopgap legislation to patch up the unemployment insurance system. it is. however. only a patch on a system that is unable to meet the needs of our times. this represents the sixth time in the past 2 yearsthat the senate has been forced to turn its attention to the unemployment insurance laws for the purpose of applying one patch or aher. i would hope that with the enactment of these emergency programs. which should suffice at least through the end of next year. the appropriate committees in this body and in the house will turn their full attentions to the long overdue reforms of the unemployment insurance laws.
. that it will turn out to be an extremely constructive action on the part of congress. and very useful in respect of the welfare load. the emous welfare load which is being carried in states like mine. and which so urgently require intelligentand i emphasize that wordfederal help. exh1s1t 1
. i introduce for myself and senator wiliams. the chairman of the committee on labor and public welfare and 14 others. the emergency public service employment extension act of 1975. a bill to extend for 1 year the authorization of appropriations for the emergency jobs program under title vi of the comprehensive employment and training act of 1973. we are joined in this joint bipartisan initiative by senator gaylord nelson. the chairman of the subcommittee on employment. poverty and migratory labor. and by senators brooke. case.
. as we all k. the nation is beset with severe ecoic difficulties. millions of taxpaying citizens are unable to find jobs and are facing serious problems in caring for their families. one of the most agonizing problems they face is an inability to afford the food they need for even a minimally adequate diet. the irony of this situation is that the federal food stamp program is intended to provide assistance to all of the nations needy people so that one must endure the suffering of hunger and malnutrition. the uncomfortable truth. however. is that millions of needy. hungry american families are unable tc obtain assistance from the food stamp program because of the redtape and bureaucratic delays that permeate the program. the amendment we are considering will establish new expedited certification procedures for the food stamp program so that needy people can obtain immediate food assistance. the long lines that have prevented many needy families from filing food stamp applications will be eliminated. the cumbersome certification procedures that require many applicants to wait months for food stamp assistance will be streamlined. and food stamp offices will be required to operate at times and places that are more suitable to the needs of applicants. the amendment requires that food stamp applicants are to have the opportunity to file a food stamp application on the "same day as such persons first reasonable attempt to make a request for food aid." this means that any person who goes to a food stamp certification office shall be able to obtain an application form immediately. the certification staff must offer personal assistance to the applicant along with a clearly written. easily understood explanation of how to fill out the form. the applicant must then be able to file the form immediately upon its completion. at that time a food stamp official must review the completed application andif it establishes on its face that the applicant is eligible for food stampsthe applicant must be certified. then and there. for an initial food stamp assistance period of 30 days and must immediately be issued an "authorization to purchaseatp" card for such 30day period. it is the intent of this amendment that such food stamp certification office will be sufficiently well staffed so that the application process just described does  require any applicant to spend more than a few hours at a food stamp office. and. in event. more than half a day. food stamp officials must make sure that one attempting to get into a certification office is turned away. indeed. any attempt by a person to enter a food stamp office qualifies as "such persons first reasonable attempt to make a request for food stamp aid" under this amendment. in implementing this new expedited certification system. food stamp officials must devise application forms that compute eligibility for food stamp aid in accordance with the true need of applicants. like the recently unemployed. by basing income calculations solely upon a households income status on the day of application. for seasonal workers. however. food stamp officials should base income calculations on such applicants projected earnings during the initial 30day and subsequent 4- or 6month certification periods. in addition. state and federal food stamp officials must make every effort to shorten and simplify food stamp application forms. in developing shorter application forms. and in otherwise implementing this amendment. the department of agriculture and the state agencies operating the program must  make any changes in poor peoples present eligibility rights under existing regulations. thus. as an example. our amendment does  contemplate any changes in the income deductions currently established under federal regulations. in addition. we make changes in the statutory requirement that the only "vendor" or "inkind" payment countable as income under the act is the $25 monthly payment "inkind" for housing provided by an employer where such housing is provided in lieu of wages. these substantive federal rights are unaltered by our amendment. it is very important to e that the new 30day certification procedure that this amendment establishes does  in any way make the program more vulnerable to fraudulent applications. the amendment makes clear that each initial certification is to be verified during the initial 30day certification period. and every recipient is expected to cooperate fully with state officials in establishing such cerification. if it should develop that the information contained in the application can be verified in 30 days. then the recipients eligibility for food stamps would  expire at the end of such 30day period. under those circumstanceswhere the recipient has cooperated in the verification process but the state agency has  completed that processthe recipient immediately shall be provided with aher 30day "authorization to purchaseatp" card. when verification has been satisfactorily completed. the recipient would be provided with a new "authorization to purchaseatp" card that is valid for either a 4- or 6month certification period. all households composed of at least one person who is elderly. blind. or disabled are entitled to receive a minimum certification period of 6 months. upon completion of the verification process. all other households shall receive a minimum certification period of 4 months. if. in the discretion of state officials. longer certification periods are appropriate. then such periods may be provided to recipients in accordance with the applicable regulations of the department of agriculture. an important requirement in this amendment is the principle that households shall receive their food stamp assistance in a "continuous" manner. this means that "authorization to purchaseatp"--cards. after the initial 30day assistance period. must be issued prior to the expiration of the previous certification period. this principle is applicable in transition from 1- or 6month -certification period to aher. this requirement essentially enforces our intention that there be interim periods in which impoverished people are without food stamp program relief. in order to carry out this principle. state and local food stamp officials must provide written ices to participating households 1 month prior to the expiration of their certification periods. informing them that they must undergo recertification procedures if they wish to stay in the program. these ices would help to assure that recipients seek recertification in a timely manner. clearly. if a recipient household goes to local food stamp officials prior to the conclusion of its certification period and seeks recertification. then the officials must complete the recertification in time to give new "authorization to purchaseatp" cards to the household before the expiration of the households current certification period. however. for households that do  seek recertifications prior to the end of the certification period. such households. in every respect. shall be treated like initial applicants. under the amendment. it is intended that recipients will be afforded the opportunity to have hearings prior to any proposed reductions or terminations of assistance. this principle is equally applicable for recipients whose aid is proposed for termination or reduction in the middle of a certification period or whose aid is proposed for termination or reduction during the transaction from one certification period to aher. however. one exception to this prior hearing rule exists: if food stamp officials wish to deny or reduce food stamp assistance based exclusively on the written statements made by a recipient on the face of the reapplication form. then benefits may be reduced or terminated prior to the granting of a hearing. before any other terminations or reductions of assistance occur. recipients must have an opportunity to obtain a prior hearing and a decision thereon. this new certification system is of crucial importance to americas needy people. i wish to make quite clear that due to the important nature of this amendment. we expect the department to issue implementing regulations in final form later than 30 days following this amendments enactment. such regulations should be effective on the day of publication and they should require that state agencies carry out a full implementation of this new system by later than 60 days following the promulgation of the federal regulations. i also wish to point out that this amendment is to be implemented in all areas of the nation which operate the food stamp program and it is to be implemented on a permanent basis. this is  a pilot or experimental system of limited application. the entire nation needs this system . this amendment will make the nationwide operation of the food stamp program more efficient and effective. critical to the new certification process is the requirement in the amendment that certification centers be conveniently located and adequately staffed. under this provision of the amendment. it is my expectation that certification centers will be opened during daytime hours on weekdays. about 2weekday evenings per week. and on 1 day every weekend. the certification offices should be conveniently located. if convenient office location is  possible in rural areas. then mobile certification vans. circuit riders. or other similar certification systems should be developed in those areas. it is also the intention that certification centers be adequately staffed so that applicants and recipients are  forced to stand in long lines. or required to wait longer than a few hours for certification. or verification. or recertification functions to be performed. i urge the passage of this amendment. the passage of this amendment will do much to improve the programs administration and to streamline the entire certification process.
 for his signature. i would also hope that we will consider. before the end of this congress. permanent reforms in the federalstate unemployment insurance system which will obviate the necessity of further consideration of temporary emergency amendments to provide adequate protections for unemployed workers during periods of serious unemployment.
. due to .n oversight. two cosponsors. senator phil a. hart and senator brooke. were inadvertently  listed as cosponsors on my food stamp bill. s. 2840. when it was introduced on december 19. 1975. i ask unanimous consent that senator philip a. hart and senator brooke be added as cosponsors of s. 2840.
. i ask unanimous consent that there may be included in the debate on the bill and printed in the record a letter from the secretary of health. education. and welfare to the miity leader and a reply to the letter by senator kennedy and myself.
. as i understand. there is an amendment in this bill which relates to the cashing of food stamp entitlement to ssi beneficiaries. but i am informed this is very deleterious and harmful to them. i said "informed" because i am  making the allegation myself. but i -wish to hear the chairman on the subject.
i deeply regret that h.r. 10210 does  take even an initial step toward the establishment of a federal benefit standard. despite the many recommendations that have been made over a period of many years. until this is done the states will continue to compete among themselves to depress unemplovment benefits at the expense of workers who comprise our basic ecoic strength and who should be entitled to the promise of the unemployment insurance system established over 40 years ago. until federal action is taken. unemnloyed workers will still all too often be forced to sell their possessions. move from their homes. use up their savings. and seek welfare assistance. i am hopeful that action in this regard will be seriously considered in the next congress. for this reason. the amendment i have proed will require that the national commission on unemployment compensation specifically study this issue and report to the congress on its findings. conclusions and recommendations  later than march 31. 1978. rather than the 1979 date otherwise established in h.r. 10210 for the commissions final report. i urge the support of my colleagues for this amendment as a means of determining. without still aher decade of delay. whether a federal standard on benefit adequacy should be enacted: the table follows:
we are informed by the congressional research service that if this amendment is adopted. it will save $32 million a year in the food stamp program. because all these people will pay something. i give that as a factor.
. i ask unanimous consent that such appropriate portions of the transcript of proceedings by the committee on labor and public welfare at the hearings on the ination of joseph a. califa jr.. to be secretary of health. education. and welfare be printed in the record at this point.
. national geographics remarkably sensitive essay entitled "to live in harlem .-.." written by frank hercules has caught the essence of one of the worlds most vital communities. harlem is a paradox. it captures the spirit of 20th century .americas tragic poverty and pain juxtaposed against a joyful 20th century zest for living with everything new and different. it is a community of hope in which the aspirations. of a long oppressed people are burgeoning into life enhancing achievement. i believe that this text is worthy of the spirit of harlems driving life. i ask unanimous consent that the following essay from national geographic be printed in the record.
. is that this bill does have one weakness: insofar as the food stamps are concerned. it is  adjusted to varying standards of living. especially in highcost areas of the united states. this is simply aher effort to level it down even further. i have  tried to do anything about it on the upside. i told the manager of the bill. having consulted with senator dole and senator humphrey. who have been so critically important to the food stamp part of the bill. that i thought what they had done in making the various compromises they had made was in balance and deserving of the support of a person like myself who was involved with it. because of my own constituency and because of these higher living costs which obtain  only in my state. but also in other industrial states. but i can feel that it would be fair to cut it down further. to an even lower standard.  dependent upon individual situations such as respecting shelter which is a very important point as far as we are concerned. i entertained the idea of an amendment. but rejected it. because i did wish to stay with those who were the architects of what i considered to be a fair and just package. and it is for those reasons that i hope the senate will reject this amendment.
i thank my colleague for his views. and i wish to speak briefly. i am grateful to the senator from south carolina for providing the time. . the amendment of the senator from utah reminds me of "this is where i came in." we have been struggling with the legal services program ever since the beginning of this program. we have revised it. changed it. put professionals in charge of it. and turned it over to the bar associations. we have tried legal services public defenders and every other way to try to bring about the furnishing of the services which are such a useful part of an average community for millions of families involved with the poverty syndrome. the arguments made today are exactly those made when we began this program. you would think we had  changed it at all. we have constrained the class action concept under section 1006 of the act and use it only with the express approval of a project director. there used to be lots of complaints about the activities of the lawyers. we have put it under the tight control of the bar associations and other lawyers. and  its most staunch advocates are the leaders of the bar. they realize the vacuum it fills. the vacuum which it fills is the fact that we should  have poverty in this country. but there is a poverty syndrome. it has been going on for generations. one of the ways to end it is to give the individual a certain sense of dignity when he needs a lawyer that he can have a lawyer. too. that is why this program has been established as it has been.
. i ask unanimous consent to have printed in the record the article from the westchester. n.y.. business journal. entitled. "the business communitys role in social welfare policy." which describes leonard greenes vision for the institute and for enlightened businessmen everywhere.
. for myself. senator case and senator williams. i send to the desk for appropriate reference a bill to amend the social security act to increase the federal share of payments to states for medical assistance and aid to families with dependent children. this bill is an important first step toward welfare reform. for it provides vital fiscal relief to the cities and states of our nation that are being almost literally crushed by the burden of welfare payments. by mandating a flat 75percent reimbursement to states. this bill goes a long way toward eliminating inequities in the treatment of states by the federal government. under present law the federal sharewhich ranges from 50 percent to approximately 80 percent--results from a formula that relies heavily on the per capita income in each state. this formula is based on the erroneous belief that states with high per capita income are best able to meet their welfare costs. the formula is discriminatory because among the 12 states and the district of columbia that presently receive the minimum 50 percent federal reimbursement are those very states which currently face the severest fiscal crises due in large measure to welfare costs. and. these same states have the heaviest welfare caseloadsfar out of proportion to the nation as a whole. this is due mainly to the demographic fact of large migration of unskilled persons from the rural areas of the country to these industrialized states in the last two decades. because the problem is a national oneevery american has a right to locate where he or she willit is unfar to penalize financially those states and localities that bear the greatest welfare caseload burdens. the need for fiscal relief of welfare costs is too pressing a problem to wait for comprehensive programmatic welfare reformdesirable and essential as it is. given the complexity and emotions surrounding the welfare problem. a major overhaul of the system could take some time. badly hit state and local governments can wait for relief until then. their need exists . they are in financial jeopardy . and the time for action is . this bill was introduced in the senate by me in the last congress and by representative abzug in the other body. in this congress the bill was introduced in the house by representative holtzman and a group of cosponsors. senators case. williams and i intend to cooperate closely with representative holtzman and the other house members in this effort. by mr. gravel:
. i would like to reiterate my general support for this bill. i believe it represents a stunning breakthrough in our long effort to reform our welfare system. the relevant committees will have to examine this bill closely and look at the concerns i have raised: others to be studied as well. but i am hopeful that we can have an agreed upon bill and that it can move quickly through the congress. i shall do all i can to bring this about.
i would like to answer the last question first. why to 4 years instead of 3. 5. or 6. and i could add. 7. 8. 9. or 10. but we are  going to 3. 5. 6. 7. 8. or 9. we are only going to 4. and there is a good reason for it. the reason. as i have explained beforewe have  had two debates in which this is half the issuethe reason is that it is only in the fourth year that we approach. with the minimum wage. the poverty level. we attain. in the fourth year. with the $3.40 rate. a wage equal to 95 percent of the poverty level. this is from an analysis by the employment standards administration. division of evaluation and research. of the department of labor.
but as a matter of fact. it is senator williams. the chairman of our committee. and mine. and really it is the williamsjavits amendment. i ackledge that with pleasure. but. s calculations and everybody elses calculations that deal in the ecoic future. that seems to be the indicated position: we shall get to 95 percent of the poverty level in the fourth year. finally. my colleague argues. well. we are looking in a crystal ball. who ks what is going to happen. well. who ks for certain what is going to happen in 3 years or 2 or 1. we simply do the best we can based on reasonable projections.
. i support this amendment. and i must say that. as i have explained to my own colleague from new york. who takes the other point of view. i understand perfectly the closeness of the question. and he himself has put it very accurately. i do  k that he has yet debated it. but he has put it very accurately in saying there are two sets of values which are here involved. the one set of values is that on the whole the poor are honest. on the whole. and also that we are trying to give them a certain quotient of dignity in the control of their own resources. especially is this true. as we learn. because people slip in and out of this poverty category. and that is  necessarily a life sentence. of course. it is this very syndrome. which i myself have given so much to in my work on the human resources committee as an example in the legal services program which has as its objective the very same point. so i am ambivalent about it myself. but i have come down on this side of the amendment which senator brooke has given us and for this reason. i shall take the worst case theory. i found it extremely interestingi do  k whether this has been referred to. but it probably hasto read a piece about the south bronx in which i have been very heavily involved since 1968 myself. because i thought to there duplicate the experience of robert kennedys brilliant initiative in bedfordstuyvesant in brooklynand this is in the bronxin which i joined when he first started it. because the bronx was even further gone than bedfordstuyvesant. in the course of that work i found an emous amount of resource in the development of cooperatives. et cetera. so i read with unique interest a story dated october 14 in the new york times about a landlords view of the deterioration of the south bronx and the fact that he attributed it very importantly to the fact that a good many of these welfare tenants did  pay their rent. and this to me a critically important point. has this been printed in the record yet.
i thank my colleague. then the landlord is quoted by saying: "two years ago it was 3 percent." he said. "next year it will be 10 percent." we are very familiar with that kind of situation here where people will lay a whole policy on their fears for the future. when i saw that figure compared to the fundamental point made by this landlord that the whole problem was attributable to the fact that welfare tenants did  pay their rent. that was a very important point to me in favor of the brooke amendment. because if the number is that small then we need to give the other aspects of this bill an opportunity to operate. the fact is that if we are going to give the right to twoparty checks to twice as many poor as had them before. we are going from 10 to 20 percent. and it seemed to me that. in view of the marginal number with which we are here concerned. we should give that improvement. upon which there is general agreement by senator brooke and those who agree with him. by myself. et cetera. to operate before we took this further step which we are taking at one and the same time really on the supposition that the doubling of the number who may  be submitted to twoparty checks would  do what needs to be done. it is for those reasons and for that finite reason. withstanding my deep concern about these two sets of values. . that i am for this amendment and that i hope the senate will support it
this is a very important point whether or  this amendment is agreed to. i think we ought to have very strong legislative history by the manager of the bill that we are charging the administering agency with an affirmative responsibility to satisfy itself that the individual welfare client is  being coerced. and that the landlord has reasonably complied with safety and other standards in his building. . i am too sophisticated about new york city or any other city to assume they are going to monitor every case. but if we have strong legislative historyand i hope very much that you and senator long would see that that was carried over into the reportthen we have got something to holler about if we run into that kind of inadequacy or slackness. i deeply feel. and i think my colleague should feel the same way as i do. that we ought to make very strong legislative history that we are charging the administrative agency with those two responsibilities. i
. sincere as he is. it will be highly adverse to the best interests which the united states has to the effort to redeem that whole area from its ageold poverty and igance and blindness. that is the issue. i hope very much that the senator. who is a very thoughtful man. and others in the chamber will vote upon this matter in that light. that is the real issue. i could be right or i could be wrong. but at least let us keep our eye on what is the issue.
. first. i am deeply gratified that the senator from south dakota has made this statement. it is characteristic of him and very statesmanlike. it is well kn that i came out on the other side of this issue. it is a very narrow question. and from the very beginning i did my utmost to bring about a pragmatic settlement. and the fact that i failed is odys fault. perhaps. but mine. i did  do it well egh. but i always felt it should  become a major issue or a symbol of what happened between the united states and israel. our moral view in this countryi will  even call it a commitmentis deeper than that. that the survival and integrity of israel is indispensable to the welfare of the united states. i still hold that view. i regarded it a signal to israel which could make her more or less inflexible in terms of the peace agreement with egypt. which is the ball in the court. or in the air. that we have to keep our eye on. our colleague from south dakota and others equally well disposed in the situation came to the opposite conclusion. i welcome a call to each party by those who thought it was to its benefit. israel might have felt it would have been benefited by the defeat of the proposition. or approval of the resolution. in terms of its opportunity to work out a peace on the arab side. which senator mcgovern has talked about. that is the test. i have  said anything about it up to . and i do  intend to for a little while. i would like to see real moderation manifested in the arab policy. as i would to see that israel does  get musclebound on its side. and scared that it is in a corner and is trapped. i welcome. therefore. that kind of attitude by so devoted a friend. as i am the first to testify about so many of those who voted on the other side of this issue. i do  want it to be an isslie between the united states and israel. but i want it even less to be an issue between those who voted on the opposite sides of this matter.
. the senate is expected this month to take up s. 2570. the comprehensive employment and training act (ceta) amendments of while there will be. of course. debate on the specific provisions of the committee billand i believe s. 2570 is a very good billoften inadequate attention is given to the many success stories in the ceta program. the national association of counties has selected 27 county prime sponsors in the united states to receive its 1978 county achievement award for special ceta employment and training projects. the award winners operate special programs for: for example. youth. women. veterans. public assistance recipients. and the handicapped. i ask that an overview of some of these special ceta programs. which appeared in the june 1978 issue of the county employment reporter. be printed in the record. i k i will be joined by many of my colleagues in paying tribute to the dedicated personnel of these county prime sponsors who have worked so faithfully to make the ceta program a vital influence in the lives of the unemployed poor of our country.
