s intimation that he himself would operate the reconstruction finance corporation by personal administrative direction. i am  quite clear about how this phee actually would be achieved. but i feel reasonably sure that neither the law  the congress ever contemplated action so extraordinary on the part of the chief executive. any successful attempt to browbeat and coerce a senate committee on the part of one chief executive might easily serve to tempt the same or aher chief executive to employ the same tactics again and againuntil finally rebuffed by some committee asserting its constitutional independence and exercising its proper legislative prerogative. some may disagree with the validity or soundness of this statement of principle. others may deny that it is applicable in the present instance.. recognizing and respecting the right of everyone thus to disagree and claiming for myself only a commensurate privilege. i am satisfied that this principle is both sound and applicable where the question of confirming mr. mcdonald is concerned. i shall vote. therefore. against the confirmation of his ination.
. i should like to ask the majority leader a question. first. a question on procedure: when the majority leader refers to an onmibus trade bill. that is the bill that would include  just the finance committee portion but the input from the banking committee. the labor committee. and so forth.
well. i am  h be: a nitpicker or. a complainer.  want to use the finance coi te6 as an example. i am  the ing member. and i am  the man. the distinguished senator alaska is absolutely right. that is a joint committee on taxatioa i think it is also fair to point ou that committee deals with trade. care. medicaid. social security. strophic illnessall of those moth problems. the thing that bothers me h -what happens is that by givil acrosstheboard percentage ini of 10 percent. basically what you done. and i k it shades a litt is to compound inequities. in other words. if a committee ting what you might say is too i by giving it 10 percent. you are it 10 percent of $5 million. a lot than 10 percent of $2.7 million.  saying the other committei starved. i do  think there is a committee here than can get with the amount that the rules mittee has given them. i am  to plead for more. i am here i that it just appears that we are extravagant. if indeed you are going to so. zero budgeting. starting at the ning and examining. . wh) the labor committee have to ha employees and more moneytw much as the agriculture comi and the banking committee. i are doing zero budgeting. when start. as i understand. that is a budget.
i thank the senator for his assurance. it has been brought to my attention that there are several established programs throughout the country already assisting businesses to explore dualuse techogies and expanded domestic and international markets. as well as management and worker retraining opportunities. i believe these programs could play an integral part in assisting severely impacted communities cope with the military drawdown and the negative affect on their ecoies. many of these programs have already initiated state and federal level partnerships. including the operation of small business development centers and state world trade centers. and could play a key role in the conversion effort almost immediately.
. i urge the adoption of this amendment. senator griffin has long been a supporter of the 8(a) program and his amendment will help to tighten up the program. in directing sba to develop and implement an outreach program for the recruitment of small business concerns eligible for the 8(a) program. one is insuring that the maximum possible number of firms will participate. the amendment also calls for construction subcontracts awarded by sba under section 8(a) to be. to the maximum extent practicable. awarded to firms located in the county or state where the work is to be performed. this will help foster a sense of community pride by involvement. finally. the amendment calls for sba to consider. along with other factors. the price competitiveness of potential subcontractors when awarding an 8(a) subcontract. although this provision might result in savings to the taxpayers. it is imperative that it be ed that the amendment does  alter the basic concept of the 8(a) program. this program is a program designed to develop businesses owned by socially and ecoically disadvantaged individuals. thus. the price competitiveness of a firm is a distant second to the consideration of developmental needs of the small business. indeed. price competitiveness should be determinative only when there are two firms which are identical in all other respects. the amendment offered by senator griffin will  in any way alter the direction of the 8(a) program in this regard. i ackledge that fine efforts of the senior senator from michigan. and urge the acceptance of his amendment.
. i would like to annce for the information of the senate and the public that the subcommittee on productivity and competition of the small business committee will hold a field hearing on august 14. 1981. in seattle. wash. the purpose of the hearing will be to examine the employee retirement income security act of 1974 1 eri3a i and the multiemployer pension plan reform act of 1980 1mppra # and their effects on competition and productivity. the hearing will convene at 9 a.m.. in the new federal office building. second and marion. seattle. wash. senator gorton will chair the hearing. for additional information contact brian hartman of the committee at 2245175 or bob thomas. senator gortons legislative assistant for small business at 2242621.
. i am pleased to be an original cosponsor of s. 2129. the "liability risk retention act of 1986." i commend senators kasten. danforth. hollings. and other members of the commerce committee for their diligence and determination in bringing this important bill before the senate in a relatively short amount of time in order to provide some relief for the many groups that need it. i am  suggesting. by any stretch of the imagination. that this legislation will solve the myriad of problems surrounding liability insurance availability and affordability that plague our nation today. but it is a start. it will provide interim relief for businesses and other groups that can purchase coverage at all or can individually afford a particular insurance premium. day care centers. restaurant owners. toxic waste disposers. nursemidwives and cities and municipalities are just a few of the many and varied groups and businesses that will benefit. earlier this year. on february 20 and 21. the senate small business committee held hearings to air the liability insurance issue. several of the witnesses who testified urged that the 1981 product liability risk retention act be expanded to include other groups and businesses. in addition. i have received correspondence from a number of major associations and organ.zations representing small tusiness throughout our nation expressing - upport for this legislation. i am aware that a great deal of discussion and negotiation has taken place in order to get this bill to its present state and i commend the efforts of those who have worked diligently to do so. in particular. i support the amendments offered by senators gorton and ford that expand the jurisdiction of state insurance regulators to examine and ensure solvency of risk retention groups and to prevent fraudulent acts by purchasing or risk retention groups. i believe these amendments strike a proper balance between regulating the industry and providing the necessary immediate relief to the groups that desperately need liability insurance coverage. i therefore urge my colleagues to vote in favor of this bill. as amended.
. i have long advocated and supported legislation to require disclosure by members of the congress of their financial holdings and sources of income. such efforts have  succeeded. thus. i have decided to make a public disclosure of my holdings. in considering how i might best do this. i have been conscious of the publics right to k as well as the baic rights of privacy of all members of congress and their families. in 1963. when i assumed the office of attorney general of the commonwealth of massachusetts. i discontinued my law practice. since then. as attorney general and u.s. senator. i have  practiced law.  have i been associated with any law firm. i do  presently have any interest in a private business firm. the principal source of my income since 1967 when i became a member of the u.s. senate has been my salary. that salary was $30.000 annually from january 3. 1967. to march 1. 1969. and $42.500 annually since. the major supplement to my salary has been from lecture fees and published articles. that supplementary income has averaged $13.654.52 in the 7 years since i have been in the senate. in addition. i have also realized for the past 7 years income totaling $10.523.12 from trustee and director fees. my total supplementary income from all of these sources has averaged $15.157.82 per year for the past 7 years. in addition. i receive rental income from the properties i own on the islands of marthas vineyard. mass.. and st. martin. french west indies. i began renting the marthas vineyard property in 1969 and the gross income before expenses from that property for the past 5 years has averaged $1.993 per year. i began renting the st. martin property in 1970 and the gross income before expenses from that property for the past 4 years has averaged $7.824.34. i presently own the following stocks .with market quotations as of may 2. 1974. during the 7 years i have served in the senate. my dividend income during this period has averaged $291.23 per year. (value as of market quotations. may 2. 1974) shares and stock: 200 pan am sulphur -------- $3.375.00 100 fairtex mills ------------ 250.00 2.000 earl graves publishing___- 2.269. 00 103 columbia pictures ------- 270.38 216 image systems ---------- 243.00 1.100 lewron tv -------------- 137.50 100 fotomat ---------------- 387.50 6.054 new jersey life --------- 4.162. 12 3.675 rem win development corp. -----------------46.500.00 1.000 great lakes silver mines. 30.00 2.000 omega alpha ------------ 1.500.00 105 general felt & cony. $100 bonds ------------ 687. 75 1.000 shareholders capitol ----- 312.50 15.000 unicorn ----------------39.375.00 99.499. 75 my home at 535 beacon street. newton. mass.. was purchased on january 4. 1963 for $38.500. the original mortgage in the amount of $30.000 is held by the boston five cents savings bank. two houses and land at 3234 nashawena park. oak bluffs. marthas vineyard. mass. were purchased on july 1. 1958 for $18.000. the original mortgage in the amount of $15.000 was held by anna v. jeffers and later transferred to the wareham savings bank on may 25. 1965. this mortgage was refinanced on december 26. 1969 for $86.000 with the south boston savings bank. a houselabatterieat friars bay. st. martin. french west indies. together with personalty. and 10 acres of land in riley hill were purchased or. december 31. 1969 for $190.000. this property was financed by a personal loan from the commonwealth national bank on december 26. 1969 in the amount of $125.000 and with proceeds from the aforementioned mortgage on the oak bluffs marthas vineyard property. a duplex apartment--cooperativeat 2500 virginia avenue. washington. d.c. was purchased on october 5. 1972 for $67.500. subject to an existing mortgage in the amount of $24.528.57 held by the john hancock mutual life insurance co. since i have intention of liquidating any of these holdings. i am unable to state their present or future market value.
i thank my distinguished colleague. i am sorry i was  in the chamber when the distinguished junior senator from new york spoke as to the relative merits of the present bill versus the bill that was voted by the senate banking committee. . i have said on many occasions. and i think i said earlier today. that the distinguished senator from illis made a very great contribution to the discussions on the bill reported by the senate banking committee. i. of course. voted against that one. the problem that i found with the senate banking bill. which i do  find with the present bill. is that it anticipated participation by the city of new york. by the state of new york. by the private sector. by the banking community. and by the labor unions. but offered on assurances of such participation. it went on hope. that bill was founded on hope that these things would occur. that new york city would do this. that new york city would do this. that the banks would do this. that the labor unions would do this. i did  feel that we should go on hope. i thought we should have something much more concrete than hope. i believe we  have that something concrete in the bill that is presently before us. the bill that has been passed by the house of representatives. and in the firm commitments made by public and private parties in new york. we are longer dependent upon hope. we  have participation by the city of new york. we have participation by the state of new york. we have participation by the banking community and by the labor unions and the pension funds. so it is longer based on hope. we are  dealing with reality. i believe that is the major difference between the bill that ultimately was passed by the senate banking committee and the bill that we  are considering here in the senate. but be that as it may. i think that with regard to debating the merits of the two bills. we  are faced with the present legislation that has been passed by the house. and which i believe we all hope will be passed by the senate and signed into law. i do want to make it clear that i do  think we would have gotten this far had we  had the participation by the distinguished senator from illis. with whom i have worked. we have had many dialogs back and forth to try to move the legislation in the direction in which we  find it has moved. i wanted to make that clear to the distinguished junior senator from new york.
what kind of assurance do we have that if we had this reduction in corporate income tax. the money would be used for the purposes for which the senator intends. as stated in his statement. namely. the expansion of business and the creation of jobs. that is the question that always is raised. i think the senator ought to direct his remarks to that.
is  the same procedure provided under many administrative acts. such as the securities and exchange act. the federal trade commission ac t. the labor relations act. and many others. is  that the standard procedure.
i believe there is a germ of rightness in this amendment. however. logically the amendment should include  only income from speeches and writings. but also earnings from any source. if a person is a director of a bank. undoubtedly it is because he is a member of the senate. i see reason why a bank directors fees should  be turned over to the treasury. i would  have the amendment apply to earnings from securities or property owned by the person. however. i believe any other kind of earnings ought to be included. i ask the senator if he would accept this serious suggestion to amend his amendment accordingly.
again. . i speak only for myself and. i believe. for the other sponsors of the amendment. i believe that a person called before such a hearing could plead the fifth amendment. but withstanding such a plea. the secretary could. nevertheless. under the language of the amendment. as i understand italthough i realize that many members of this body are good lawyers. and may disagree with my conclusionmake a finding that the individual had failed to do what he should do. namely. file a report. quite a number of cases hold that a mere plea by an officer of a corporation. for example. does  thereby excuse him from filing a report which. as a corporate officer. the law requires him to file. on that basis. the secretary could make a findingwithstanding the fact that such a person pleaded the fifth amendmentthat he was  being compelled to testify against himself or to incriminate himself. because all that he was asked to do was to stop being an officer or official of the labor union. therefore. insofar as i am concerned. and. i believe. insofar as the other sponsors of the amendment are concerned. this provision does establish our intention.
the concept here is of labor market areas. and a labor market area. though it may be designated with the name of a particular community which is its center. is  necessarily confined to that community. but i would  wish to engage in a debate with the senator on these figures. which are  mine. if the senator desires to k more about that. i will have a check made.
i believe if we put this problem in perspective and with full appreciation of the problems of the senator from california. if the proposed legislation which the junior senator from new york and i are supporting is successful. it will only mean that there will be competition in respect to the overwhelming proportion of businessabout 50 percentwhich is  negotiated. it may be that in that competition california will be further advantaged and new york and ohio will be further disadvantaged. such action would be too bad. because we must do the thing that meets the best interests of the country. we believe the defense department authorities have slipped into an easy and comfortable way of dealing with people that they have been dealing with for some time. we pay all credit to california for having leapfrogged into the missile business. california has gotten far ahead of us. we say. "that is fine. you have had your opportunity. you may be able to outbid us. but at least  we have an opportunity to bid." we do  want everyone to be in a groove. and to go ahead and negotiate as they always have. with respect to the labor surplus setaside. which my colleague from new york has discussed. larger amount of business is involved than there was in small business setaides. we say much the same rules for labor setasides should be applied for a fraction of the business as are applied for small business setasides. and for very much the same reason. such discussion should  obscure the main purpose of our proposed legislation. which is to get competition into the area of negotiated contracts. which  make up 80 percent of procurement. my friend from ohio is a great advocate of ecoyprobably greater than i. he feels very strongly about ecoy. and i am sure he would be the first to say. "if the door is open. our people can sharpen their pencils and compete. if they can make the grade we can complain."
 just the same as the department of commerce or the department of labor would be exempt in the purchase of equipment in the state. in that case. one would be dealing only with the desks and furniture of the corporation itself.
in a moment. i wish to finish this thought. it will be ed that i voted "nay" on the capehart amendment. because i desire to have the bill contain a provision with reference to moderateincome housing.  we are at the point where what can be done can be much improved. i do  want the bill to leave the senate without making this landmark defense of a provision for moderate income housing. it is contemplated. under the 40year plan. that fnma will pick up all the mortgages which are issued at below market rates. it is kn that that is the only way in which that can be done.
be and he is hereby assigned to service on the committee on appropriations. that the senator from new hampshire. mr. murphy. be and he is hereby assigned to service on the committee on banking and currency. and that the senator from idaho. mr. jordan. be and he is hereby assigned to service on the committee on interior and insular affairs and to the committee on labor and public welfare.
it is  a government committee. it is a private enterprise committee entirely. it will give out pooled advice. various segments of private industry will also debate the question with each other. checking the advice against each other. incidentally. many of these people will  meet with one aher  for fear that somebody is going to charge them with violation of the antitrust laws. in addition. it will introduce other elements into the area. such as labor and educational institutionsit is  a very big committee. it has a limitation of ninein an effort to do the job.
i am asking the department of labor to comment on these recommendations in the light of the new regulations and will bring these to the attention of my colleagues when the department has replied. finally. last year the small business administration issued regulations requiring the inclusion of employment
we have been investing in the world for 100 years. just as we have been receiving income on our investments for 100 years. the figure that is chosen for a particular year is also the crystalization. the cumulative quality of american investments for a century. what i am pointing out is that by inhibiting investments. we are  dealing with a losing proposition in terms of balance of payments. we are dealing with a going proposition in terms of balance of payments. we get more back than we put out in any 1 yeareven in the worst year which the supporters of the measure cite. the second point is as follows: i have specified how we can deal with the balance of payments. president eisenhower specified how we could deal with the balance of payments. i invite attention to the fact that on page 87 of the committees hearings secretary dillon said that we would spend $1 billion less for military expenditures and similar matters abroad ending on january 1. 1965. than we did in 1962. that is really going into the balanceofpayments problem. i previously pointed out that we have $2 billion in tourists expenditures. we have many other things in which we could really make a dent. why hurt an activity which is really profitable for the united states. namely. investments of the united states. particularly in view of the fact that it is in the leading banking position in the world. when a country tries to correct a situation. it does  cut off the activity in which it is making money. it cuts off the activity in which it is losing money. under the bill we would go in exactly the opposite direction.
the senator is very kind. frankly. i take great satisfaction in this effort. i feel it is a very profound duty. i think the preponderate view of the senate is very strongly in favor of trade unions. many of us have shown that on occasion. but also. i think. when we talk as often as we do about the public interest being paramount. at least occasionally we have to vote that way. i think this is such an occasion. . i would also beg my close friends. with whom i have worked for years. who are leaders in the trade union movement. to understand that we understand their attitude. i would  expect them to do anything else but to protest vigorously. and to assure me and everybody else in my position of the utmost recrimination and retaliation by american labor. that is their duty and their job. they are protagonists. they have a position and a point of view that it is their job to fight for. just as management would fight for its position. that is the open market in ideas. considerations. et cetera. it is our job to undertake the arduous responsibility of the ruler or the judge. as the case may be. and to vote what we think is in the very best interests of th) whole country. including labor. on occasion. that task is  easy. and this situation shows up its difficulties in their most glaring and regrettable form. most of us will and certainly  senator morse  iapproach this vote with any degree of joy and gladness. but it is a duty which must be performed. we are  sent here to do only the easy things that will get the applause of one group of the community or the other. we wish that were the case. we try very hard to do it. but sometimes we just can.
. the point of my amendment is to increase the allowability of loans to small business. which can qualify for an ecoic opportunity loan. from $25.00"0 to $100.000. the reasofi for my interest is. one. that i am the ranking miity member of the small business committee and. second. that i am the ranking miity member on the committee on labor and public welfare. which deals with poverty. we have hadand i mentioned thi.s in the course of debate a minute agoc6nferences in new york with some 30odd leading banks. these conferences have discussed problems with regard to small business loans in the miity entrepreneurship field. one point raised was that there is an inadequate allowability in amount. it is necessary to distinguish between the ecoic oppor-. tunity loan program and the regular sba section 7(a) loan program. from the point of view of the borrower there are four important differences between these programs. first. whereas any small business concern may qualify for the section 7(a) loan. only small business concerns in areas of high unemployment or owned by lowincome individuals qualify for ecoic opportunity loans. second. the maximum limit on section 7(a) loans is $350.000. on ecoic opportunity loans it is $25.000. third. section 7(a) loans must be of sound value or adequately secured. there is such regulation for ecoic opportunity loans. only a regulation that. there be "reasonable assurance of repayment." fourth. the sba may guarantee section 7(a) loans only up to 90 percent. ecoic opportunity loans may be guaranteed the full 100 percent. in the socalled franchising field. the $25.000 figure is often inadequate. although in most cases the $25.000 figure is egh. indeed. as the senator from new hampshire has pointed out. there is a $14.000 average of loans made under section 402 of the ecoic opportunity act. those were loans for miity entrepreneurship employment. perhaps a better chance of success in some cases requires a little bit more money than that. sometimes the necessary additional amount was only marginal. sometimes it was only a matter of $30.000 or $35.000 as compared with the $25.000 limit. these are very vivid.examples of what i am talking about. i hope they will appeal to the chairman of the committee and the ranking miity member with relation to the problem involved in a major development effort like that of what we call bedfordstuyvesant in new york. started by the late robert kennedy. i participated in that effort with the mayor of new york. john lindsay. that project has caught hold and is -doing quite .well. it is  doing well egh to say thatit is a success. but it is probably making more effort in that direction than any other organization effort that i k of around.the country. we tried the same thing in the south. there we rfn into the problem oftrying to emiploy local people. the minute we do that. a small manufacturing concern that might manufacture mattresses or something like that runs into the $25.000 barrier. i have discussed this matter with the senator from new hampshire . he is very sympathetic to it. i hope very much that he might favor the amendment. although we have talked about a reduced amount. i put in the amendment exactly as i proposed it. however. i am prepared to reduce the amount to $50.000 if it should find favor with the chairman of the subcommittee and enable him to take it to conference. i introduced a bill on this subject which. because it related to poverty. was referred to the committee on labor and public welfare. the bill has  yet had hearings. however. the facts are evident. i testified to them myself. it is a field in which i have done a good deal of work and k a good deal about. the matter is a relatively important. though  the most important. aspect of the bill. considering th6 time of the session. i hope very much that the senator from new hampshire can accept the amendment. and then have the small business administration check it through and check out everything i have said. if. it does happen to be worthy of the attention of. congress. at least by being in this bill. it will have attention before aher year expires.
i think the senate should be advised on this matter. so that it will  appear that the senator from oklahoma and i are failing to cooperate with the majority leader with respect to a limitation. the fact is that here we are dealing with a new child care corporation with a $50 million initial capital and in the context of the following additional factors: first. the corporation would be moving into a field in which we  spend somewhere around $500 million a year. second. we have just had the white house conference on children. with the objective of providing for the educational and other development of youth. and third. we have very comprehensive bills by a number of senators on the entire matter of child care. the question which faces us is. will the establishment of the child care corporation preempt or conflict with these additional factors. etheless. i have agreed with senator harris that we will go through with it and do our utmost to inform the senate. and let the senate exercise its will. it will require a matter of a few hours. probably. in order to really begin to deal with the subject. i hope senators will understand that with all the good will in the world. to expedite it every way in the world. we simply can deal so rapidly with a subject of that size. senators will remember that i raised this question when the motion to recommit was made. it is in the bill. the senator from louisiana felt strongly that he wanted it in the bill. that is all right. however. we also have some rights as to advise the senate to what we who have been working on it for months think ought to be done about it.
it is  developmental care. and that is one of the biggest issues in this field. obviously when we are dealing with this corporation. and considering its restrictions. we see what must happen. the corporation can even earn interest on the bonds. as the senator from kentucky pointed out. the senator from kentucky pointed out to me privatelyand i would like to say publiclythat the only investment it could make is in government securities. it can even buy high interest bonds. it is confined to u.s. bonds. it is this money and money earned from day care centers that will give them earnings and enable them to pay back the basic investment of $50 million. at $2 million a year. this is  even a government bond. the whole thing becomes a business operation other than the kind we want. as always happens in debates of this character. it is unnecessary to extend the argument that far. the fact is that in this case what we are arguing for is that we withhold our action. rather than that we take action. while we speak with admiration and respect for the ideabecause i am devoted myself to original ideasand this is an original ideai certainly am  devoted to such ideas until after they have been tested out in some fashion. even if it is only in debate. we should deal with the bugs in the program. some of which have been pointed out in the debate today. especially when we will be aborting aher approach to the same problem.
. i would like again to read a statement from the letter that i read before. many of the senators were  here at the time i did this before. the key portion in the secretarys letter which was received this morning reads as follows: the administration agrees with the purposes of this amendment. but does  favor enactment of this title at this time. we think that insufficient time has passed to enable cod and the other offices with which it works to prove their worth and effectiveness before a new government corporation is formed to meet the needs of the nation for child care services. we also call attention to the very important child care component of the family assistance plan which will receive early consideration by the 92d congress. we do  believe that this corporation would be the most effective way to handle that program when it becomes law. that is the case as i see it for the amendment. i hope very much that the senate will agree to the amendment and for the presentthat is all we askstrike this particular title from the bill.
 pompidou on the terms he will insist upon for united kingdom entrance into the common market and the policy former prime minister wilson and the labor party will adopt in the united kingdom on the question of united kingdom entry. and then the u.s. congress will have to make its wishes kn on upcoming nixon administration trade proposals which will include extending generalized preferences to the developing world. the possible breakthrough in the textile dispute between ourselves and japan offers grounds for optimism that other pending trade issues can also be amicably settled.
. on june 28. joined by 10 senators. i wrote alvin j. arnett. acting director of the office of ecoic opportunity urging that funds be utilized to continue current legal services backup centers at least through december 31. 1973 or until a national legal services corporation can be established. i was joined by senator williams. chairman of the committee on labor and public welfare. and by senators schweiker. pell. mondale.
. i ask unanimous consent that during the consideration of s. 782. the antitrust procedures and penalties act. gene mittelman. one of the staff members of the committee on labor and public welfare. may have the privilege of the floor.
 on the point the senator from colorado just made. that the bill does  treat all employees. those covered before and after 1966. the same. i might say that that has been the whole concept of minimum wage. we have always given the opportunity to agricultural employers. who are still behind the parade and. also. we have done it with respect to puerto rico. and we have done it. obviously. to retail and service employers. who were brought under the act as one of the big changes in 1966. so there has been a traditional phasein to give an opportunity so that that progress could be made. i may say. too. that though i do  worship consistency. it is hardly consistent to make an amendment to raise the small business exemption and then to complain about the fact that we are giving small business a break. be that as it may. the rationale for our action is the fact that traditionally this is the way in which the minimum wage structure and minimum wage legislation are adopted.
i am the ranking member of the committee. i feel exactly as senator williams does as to the general proposition. i can think of hing that would strip the selfpolicing activities of the small businessman down to more basic. underessential activity than cutting this penalty to $50. he would just wait around to be caught. because there would be real inducement for him to correct himself. as to the theory that he is a small businessman. so he is a nice. charitable. sweet man. the fact is that there are millions of small businessmen. i am the ranking member of the small business committee. and the small businessmen. themselves. k that some of the worst violators of minimum wage laws and safety laws are in their own ranks.
. this particular amendment raises a very serious question regarding reporting data which must be given about property. it relates to personal property. the problem which is involved are the words "for investment." if members will turn to page 5. line 25. the reporting requirement is for the identity and category of value of each item of personal property held. directly or indirectly. during such calendar year in a trade or business or for investment or the production of income which has a fair market value in excess of $1.000 as of the close of business of such calendar year. the problem raised is mally household goods. while  held for investment. many families could acquire jewelry. works of art. or antiques and there would be a question of whether or  they expect the value will increase as time passes. those are works held for investment. the concern of many colleagues. as my colleagues on the committee which drafted this resolution k. is that we should  become an attraction to thieves. et cetera. by the items which need to be reported. i believe this question can be settled. if i might say to the manager on the part of the majority and the miity. by this amendment. i would like to read what i believe to be a satisfactory explanation of what it means. title 1 of the resolution. rule xlii. financial disclosure. paragraph 2(e) 2 provides for the reporting of: the identity and category of value of each item of personal property held. directly or indirectly. during such calendar year in a trade or business or for investment or for production of income which has a fair market value in excess of $1.000 as of the close of such calendar year. i am  speaking for myself. it is my understanding that by this provision-
madam president. i think the question of the applicability of this bill to small business is so critical that i should like to have printed in the record the jurisdictional requirements of the national labor relations board. i think it would be very "nstructive to all members. especially in view of the fact that one of the amendments. which has already been iced by senator durkin. relates to an effort to codify these jurisdictional limits as part of the law. of the measure which we are  debating. if the senator has objection. i ask unanimous consent that that be done.
