. higher costs of residual oil have impaired the defense effort. higher costs of residual lead to higher production costs. these inflated costs already have had their effect on national security by obstructing. in many cases. the ecoic development necessary for winning the cold war. expansion of trade is itself an ecoic weapon of the cold war. professor thorp says. in the american ecoic review: the soviet bloc will  be able to apply ecoic pressure if the west maintains cvlo1 active trading opportunities and healthy markets. when prices rise. it becomes extremely difficult to maintain existing markets. let alone to expand our trade. the national coal association holds the position that residual oil imports affect the coal industrys capability to provide the needed demand. in case of emergency. along the east coast and furthermore affect adversely rail transportation facilities necessary to ship such coal. this assertion is based on two assumptions: first. that during an emergency. large quantities of coal would be required along the east coast to replace residual oil imports longer available. once the real nature of national security is analyzed. this argument lacks logical foundation. it was further suggested by the national coal association that due to interrupted tanker shipments. coal will have to replace imported residual oil as a fuel. the fact is that even in a nuclear war. the united states would be vulnerable to bomber attacks. with coal transported through a limited number of bottleneckshampton roads and a few rail centers--coal transportation is at least as vulnerable to interruption as oil transportation. a further underlying assumption which needs clarification is that the coal industry is a threatened industrythreatened in particular by imports of residual oil. to begin with. it must be emphasized that in a discussion of fuel competition. total sales.  merely imports. of residual oil have relevance. because imports of residual have replaced to a large extent former domestic production. which has been diminishing due to increased refinery efficiency. i am astonished that the coal industry considers residual oil sales a real threat. according to the ncas own data. the coal industrys future looks bright. it is estimated that 900 million tons of coal will be consumed in 1975. in contrast to 414 million tons in 1957. such increased consumption will be made possible by increased productivity in coalmining operations. but equally important. by new methods of transportation. much of the coal industrys progress can be traced directly to vigorous competition by other fuels. however. the industrys fast pace in automation has brought about unemployment. it is true that the unemployment of a coal miner affects national security. since unemployed workers are  contributing to the full development of the nations potential. however. establishment of residual oil import controls is neither an effective  a proper way of dealing with this problem. programs have been initiated to alleviate unemployment directly. in many instances. training will be available for jobs in new industries that are vital to the american ecoy. reemployment in obsolete mines would detract from the efficient utilization of the nations manpower. the flexibility of our ecoic system is a vital ingredient of our national health and security.
in the. house of representatives has elaborated on the subject of se abatement. the concept of electrically powered vehicles is  new. during the early stages in the development of the automobile. battery power was used as a means of propulsion. these cars were limited in range and power. though they were simple to operate and maintain. their top speed did  exceed 25 miles per hour and their batteries required recharging every 60 miles. it was  until recently that a revival of electric vehicles has taken place. there has been little improvement in finding the solution to the problems of power and range. but these vehicles are suitable for a number of tasks in industry. there are an estimated 100.000 batterypowered materialhandling trucks operating in american industrial plants and warehouses. electrically powered vehicles are also being used in our nations coal mines. and more recently. some electric delivery trucks are being used for doortodoor delivery. these vehicles are demonstrating that even within the limits of present techogy. they can perform their jobs in a clean. efficient. silent manner. in great britain. tremendous gains have been made in the development of electric vehicles. today. there are over 40.000 batterypowered urban delivery vehicles which are engaged in shorthaul deliveries requiring frequent stops and a limited total mileage basis. the electricity council of britain is currently demonstrating four batterypowered automobiles. which are capable of attaining speeds of 35 to 40 miles per hour. for a distance of 20 to 40 miles on a single battery charge. the significance of these vehicles is that they are specially designed for battery power and are  just modified conventional cars. this is an important distinction that must be made in our own research and development programs. and would be made under the terms of this bill. when automobiles designed for internal combustion engines are modified for propulsion by electric power. the excess weight and wasted space inherent -to the vehicle itself makes such adaptions impractical and wasteful. the vehicles being demonstrated by -the electricity council are said to be particularly adaptable to the urban conditions of great britain. the outlook is so promising that the council has predicted that within 10 years a million batterydriven automobiles will be operating in great britain. other significant developments are occurring in the field of mass urban transportation. which show a great potential for electrification of commuter vehicles. in germany. a batterypowered commuter train has been developed which can accelerate to 60 miles per.hour in 60 -seconds. and is -capable of carrying 150 people. though these gains in the techogy of .electric vehicles in other parts of the world are impressive. significant development has yet demonstrated that such vehicles will be available to the american public in the near future. a significant effort is needed to develop electric vehicles suitable for performing the tasks of transporting people and material. which are currently being performed by combustiontype vehicles. such development is imperative so that electric vehicles will become a reasonable alternative to the traveling public. only by new breakthroughs will there be wide acceptance of the electric vehicle which can provide an answer to the problems created by concentrations of combustiontype vehicles. even with its present limitations on driving range and speed. the electric car today could play a role in providing transportation for people in our urban areas. according to studies by the regional planning association of the new york metropolitan area. the average auto speed over major arteries leading into the city during rush hours is 13 miles per hour. in the city itself. this average slows to 8.5 miles per hour. the study also showed that 28 percent of these cars travel less than 50 miles per day. under these conditions. it is obvious that large combustion vehicles are unnecessary. and that electrically powered vehicles could perform equally as well. manufacturers of batteries and industrial electric vehicles presently are selling good products. and are ably serving the existing market. because this market is limited. however. the research work being carried on by these manufacturers has been hampered. the strong. responsible leadership required to produce vehicles for the purpose of providing an alternative to combustion vehicles has  emerged. the bill which i have introduced today insures that all interested manufacturers will have access to the techogical advances developed under it. it specifically requires that the research products of this measure be made available by the secretary of commerce. by stimulating and focusing tae efforts of the government on the development of electric vehicles. we can bring to fruition a concept which has been talked about but never pushed to fullscale reality. out of this measure. i am sure. will come the strong industrial leadership. armed with the necessary techogical tools. which is needed to bring the electric vehicle to the market. the terms of this measure provide for full cooperation by the secretary of commerce. with other federal agencies and departments. presently. these agencies are purchasing large numbers of combustion vehicles. this congress and the president have supported a policy which places antipollution responsibilities in governmental agencies. this measure is consistent with that policy. and i hope that research will show that many of the combustion vehicles  being purchased by federal agencies can be replaced by appropriate electrically powered vehicles. currently. there is a limited amount of research being performed by the federal government which relates to the development of electric vehicles. this proposal would centralize -the current research and coordinate all governmental efforts being made in the area of battery. fuel cell. and vehicle development to bring such vehicles into general usage. much of the current research is being done for purposes of defense and the bill makes specific provision that technical disclosures are  required where security requires that the information be kept a secret. the thrust of this measure is threefold: first. the development of batteries and fuel cells which are powerful and lightweight. second. development of vehicles which are specifically designed for propulsion by electrical power produced by these batteries or other electrical sources of energy. such as fuel cells. and. third. construction of prototype vehicles to demonstrate their ability in performing the tasks presently required of combustiontype vehicles. batteries presently available are  suitable for electriccar use because they are too heavy and too expensive. improvements have been made in leadacid batteries. but these modifications have been aimed at meeting the requirements of the present market. recently. there have been anncements relating to the development of a prototype zincair battery and a successful demonstration of a lithium battery. in the past 10 years. the traditional leadacid battery and the nickeliron battery have been joined by the nickelcadmium. nickelsilver. silverzinc. silvercadmium. and mercury batteries. these are promising developments. but the technical objections are essentially the same when these batteries are used to propel automotive vehicles. a major and immediate research effort could very well show that these technical limitations will be overcome. the electric vehicles which have been developed at this point have  been specifically designed for electrical propulsion. models being tested in great britain are the first to bring together electrical propulsion and vehicles designed for that source of power. electric vehicles must be developed which incorporate radically new methods of braking. chassis design. controls. and auxiliaries. this is a concept of total research in an effort to demonstrate that practical. safe. and efficient electric vehicles of all types can perform a large portion of our transportation needs. under the measure which i have introduced today. prototype vehicles are to be constructed. if research into battery. fuel cells. and vehicle design shows that electric vehicles are capable of performing many of the tasks  being performed by combustionpowered cars and trucks. by building such prototype vehicles. an impressive demonstration of their capabilities can be made to industry and the public. i am hopeful that the results of this research will show that electric vehicles are capable of meeting the requirements of transportation which the nation requires. our transportation industry is called upon to do many jobs. this bill would place the tools of progress at its disposal. by doing so. we may insure that electric vehicles will be developed which can meet the needs of the cornmuter. the trucker. the shopper. and the traveler. the air pollution. urban congestion. se. and environmental discomforts caused by the increasing concentration of vehicles powered by internal combustion engines in our urban areas is contrary to the policy so often enunciated by this congress. which is to promote the full development of modern transportation methods that do  impair the health and wellbeing of our nations citizens. the quality of life which the citizens of this nation desire and deserve is being threatened by the ecoic and social ills which combustioncaused congestion and pollution promote. congress has a clear responsibility to see that electrically powered vehicles are developed .  after irreparable damage has been done.
what is the vote situation for monday. are the votes to be in the aftern so far. in other words. we have some stacked up that were assigned for monday. such as the alaska railroad. the kennedyweicker amendment dealing with the highway trust fund. the huddleston amendment dealing with coal haul roads. those i understand were to be in the aftern.
i would like to make one point. if i might. . it is terribly important to look at the language of the amendment with which we are dealing. the secretary of transportation has said that seven appalachian states account for over 98 percent of the reported backlog needs. the senator from montana may hope that his state is going to get something out of this. but it is very clear that they are  going to get anything. if they do get something. it will be so small it will  amount to very much. over 98 percent of this amount is for roads to be used for coal hauling. with the appalachian states again reporting the greatest needs.
. i think that what we want to do is proceed with the ships that we need in the navy. proceed with the frigates or whatever the armed services committee decides we need for the long haul. and  use our money and  use our energy and  use our manpower in a ship that. at best. has very limited usefulness
to the bill. s. 1173. supra. as follows: on page 74. strike line 23 and insert the following: nance of the system. "(8) a state may. at its discretion. expend up to onefourth of one percent of its annual highway trust fund apportionments on initiatives to halt the evasion of payment of motor fuel taxes.".
to the bill. s. 1173. supra. as follows: on page 74. strike line 23 and insert the following: nance of the system. "(8) a state may. at its discretion. expend up to onefourth of one percent of its annual highway trust fund apportionments on initiatives to halt the evasion of payment of motor fuel taxes.".
i thank the distinguished senator from montana who has indeed been in the forefront in calling for solutions which. had they been enacted a year ago. would be far less painful than today. in this nation today does anyone understand that. whereas we have a horror of additional taxes. what is being paid in the way of increased oil prices to the arab nations is really just the same as a tax. only we are  paying it to our own government. we are payilig it to the arab governments. i would much rather pay whatever money it is i am going to pay to my own government to create that quality of life. in terms of energy selfsufficiency. mass trmnsportation and so on. which assures us we will be independent and enjoy mobility. as i said. this fuel crisis is still with us. in the short run. we are all suffering. it originally affected the poor and those of moderate income. but  all americans understand the severe effects of inflated prices of oil imposed upon us by the opec nations. an international cartel of oil producing nations continues to raise oil prices. fueling the fires of serious inflationary spiral among western industrial nations in decades. and causing ecoic dislocation and disruption and suffering worldwide. as a complement to a program of nationwide energy conservation. i submit that the united states should reinstitute the oil import quota system. this time with strict and welldefined policy directives emanating out of the federal energy administration. conservation at home and limitation on importation from abroad form a twopronged attack to eliminate our dependency on foreign oil. such an effort would further promote the proper ecoic and political incentives for full exploration and development of indiges natural resources. a brief analysis of the facts dictates the need for decisive governmental action. government and private industry studies indicate a continued rise in domestic energy needs and consumption and a corresponding increase in the dependence upon foreign oil supplies. in 1959 this countrys oil imports accounted for roughly 10 percent of its energy needs. . the federal energy administration estimates that imports account for 30 percent of our oil needs. at our present rate of consumption. it has been estimated that over 50 percent of our oil requirements will be imported by 1980. at a cost that will surely wreak ecoic havoc on this nation and the international financial system. one only need consider our present balanceoftrade problema record august balanceofpayments deficit of $1.1 billionto recognize the devastating dislocation of the energy crisis on all nations. along with the attack on our dependency on foreign oil. and a commitment to providing ecoic and political incentives for exploration and development of u.s. energy resources. we must surely address the issue of alternative transportation systems to move americans. yesterday. a housesenate conference committee. responding to a threat of a veto. agreed to a comprehensive $11.8 billion program providing federal assistance for mass transit over the next 6 years. that is less than $2 billion per year and that is  egh to build a decent rail system in connecticut or massachusetts. never mind the united states. in fact. the department of transportation. ing that the required costs for new rail guideways continue to outpace federally authorized funds. projected that capital improvements done would require over $3 billion per year through 1990. in the period of 17 years. between 1950 -and 1967. automobile ownership doubled. at the same time. public transportation ridership and facilities declined. since 1967. the trend has continued. to adequately address this imbalance in our transportation system. will demand a massive federal commitment to the improvement and modernization of urban mass transit systems. bus and rail. therefore. today i am calling for a substantial increase in the authorization of the federal mass transportation act of 1974. $11.8 billion over 6 years is totally inadequate to do the job that needs to be done. i believe it is essential to double the federal commitment during this 6year period. if if should mean increased taxes. and it should. if we are to remain fiscally healthy. then i say fine. because i would rather pay my money to my government and get a train than pay blackmail to an arab and get the back of his hand. it. seems to me the time has come to stop the talk. assume the mantle of leadership. and give direction to this nation in that area which is most responsible for the present ecoic uncertaintiesthe impact of international oil cartels. i think with the programs that i have laid forth here indeed we can do more than just yell invectives at the arab nations. we give ourselves the necessary muscle to achieve a positive result of this nation. 
i would like to thank both the senator from wisconsin and the senator from texas for accepting this amendment. i want to point out that should this standard be successful in conserving fuel we will have achieved an important change in this item in our national lifestyle that is the second greatest consumer of energythe building. the automobile is  1. buildings are  2. so it should make a substantial type of contribution. i thank the senators.
. i propose that the time has come to get down to some hard answers. i think the american people are far ahead of the politicians. both republican and democrat. they have been looking for leadership for quite a while . and they are far more sophisticated than are many of our colleagues in their recognition of what needs to be done to resolve the energy crisis in this country. so as unpolitical as some of the things i recommend might sound. i think they are understood for what they arethe truthrather than a lot of horse manure. if i had my "druthers" today.  only would i vote to decontrolwould i go ahead and impose a system of mandatory fuel conservation. believe me. if we did that. if we freed up our ecoic processes to bring more of the commodity onstream. while at the same time we lowered our demand. that is the kind of language the opec nations would understand. we would have lower prices. we would have shortages. it only stands to reason that the price is governed by two factors:  1. the availability of the commodity. and.  2. its use. so the one thing that we can do right  is to bring more of the commodity onstream. if we really were going to do a 100percent job. we would lower our usage of that commodity. admittedly artificially through rationing. until such time as the other solutions which politicians like to talk about are actually in being. we have  yet substituted mass transit for the automobile. we do  have fully developed alternative sources of energy. we do  have greater mileage engines. nuclear energy is still in the infant stage. so we have to hold the line while these other entities take hold and we are longer dependent to the extent that we are today on fossil fuels. but that can be done today. i confess a slight disappointment in the unwillingness of people to even respond in the sense of driving their cars at 55 miles per hour. i confess to you that in our state of connecticut. i think we are one of the worst examples. very few govers have enforced that law. yet it could contribute significantly to the saving of fuel. it seems to me. that if the energy crisis is a national crisis. the time has come to face up to it in a national way. that does  mean turning to the poor and elderly. those on fixed incomes. and say. "you conserve." because it is a burden. it means each of us takes a poion of the burden. of the solution. on our shoulders. to the extent that any one of us is better off. we take more of that burden on our shoulders.  less. so that every american is participating in the saving of fuel. i am  asking for a world war ii rationing plan. how about a plan closing the gas stations on sunday. that would affect everybody. how about a plan if you have one car in your family you pick the day of the week when it is  going to be used on the road. and if you have two cars. it would be 2 days for the second car. anything over 2 cars would remove them for 5 days a week. we would exempt all agricultural and commercial vehicles. that would put it where it belongs. on those with the clout rather than those without it. i make these comments in passing because i believe the time has come to go ahead and inspire this country to urge us all to go ahead and put our shoulder to the wheel.  we come to the issue of decontrol. how in heavens name political demagogs can stand here and urge a continuation of the present system as providing the american people with lower prices is beyond me. i do  have to speculate. i do  have to guess. i do  have to have some ecoist interpolating figures. what has happened to the price of gasoline since the fall of 1973. it has soared. and it has soared under controls. that is the record. if i were a disinterested party. which i am  since i have already indicated what my vote is going to be. i would like to go up to the fellow who is advocating continued controls and say. "hey. mister. why do i want 6 more months of that business" rather than to turn to the fellow who is for decontrol and say. "would you please tell me why this is going to be good for me." the track record is a miserable one. just as the record of the congress of the united states is a miserable one. ody asked for the embargo. it was  precipitated by the republican and the democratic parties. it was precipitated by foreign governments. so in that sense it is a political crisis which has been thrust upon us. but the handling of it. the meeting of it. has been political. i have already chastised both parties.
i say to the senator. using  any specialized kledge but just looking back on the history of the automobile in. let us say. the last decade. is there any question in the senators mind that it was the pressure brought by foreign competition that forced detroit to go to a smaller automobile. is there any question that it was the pressures brought by congress that forced them to start to clean up their engines. all i am saying is that there has been initiative whatsoever. either as to fuel efficiency or as to clean air on the part of detroit. yet for some reason or other the burden is supposed to sit in the hands of the poor. elderly. those on fixed income. and the very young. as cited in the letter read before this body by the distinguished senator from colorado. it is an incredible record. and that same industry-
finallyand then i will conclude by an attempted exercise in logic and fact and subject it to the forces of irrelevancyhere we are in a day and age when gasoline is scarcer in supply and more expensive insofar as the product is concerned. when we k from statistics that. since the arab oil embargo. we have become more and more dependent on the automobile. these are the facts.  the opinions of this senator. we continue to vote through legislation that causes the united states to become more dependent on the automobile. by virtue of where the federal dollars go. mind you. this is  something being imposed upon us by the opec cartel. this is  something being thrust upon the united states of america. this is something america is doing to itself. the federal dollars should go where the crises exist. yes. we need more rail systems. yes. we need more mass transit systems. and we need more buses. we might very well need better airports. and so forth. but e of these options is available to the american public. because congress insists that. regardless of the energy crisis. we will continue to feed the taxpayers dollar to those who control this particular form of energy. in that sense. hing has changed since 1946. and it is the reason why we can change anything that has occurred since 1974
the dollar will be strengthened when we balance our budget at home. the dollar will be strengthened when europe ks that we have our own energy supplies. that we have changed our lifestyle to cut down our energy consumption. parenthetically. to my good friend from montana. when he says that rationing is abhorrent in the state of montana. i say it is abhorrent in the state of connecticut. also. that is the whole difficulty. ody wants to tread on anybodys toes around here. mind you. i did  advocate a repetition of world war ii rationing. i recommended some system where you have a 6day week for the automobiles. with a colored sticker on your windshield for the day of the week that that vehicle is  going to be in operation. i asked people to change ther lifestyle for 1 day a week. to keep that car off the road 1 day a week. i exempted agriculture and commercial vehicles so that we in way stop the wheels of commerce in this country. i asked this country. for 1 day a week. to change our lifestyles to that extent. even there. the answer comes out a loud "" successful energy policy is going to be production alone. it has to be conservation. i realize that conservation is  in the bill before us. but neither is it in any bill coming up behind. it is miniscule. it will here near do the job. either in terms of gas or oil. or anything else. the bottom line of all this. .
but the situation since the end of world war ii is far worse than that and gives us the background as to why we do  have a rail system in the united states. because since the end of world war ii the united states has spent. up until the last several years. 98 cents out of every transportation dollar on highways. 1 cent on airports. a halfcent on waterways. and halfcent on rail. indeed. if we have the greatest highway system in the world that is because we pay for it and if we have the worst rail system. again we are getting what we pay for. which is hing. in absolute dollar figures. and they are round figures. since the end of world war ii we spent every year between $6 billion and $7 billion going up to $8 billion-$6 billion and $7 billion a year on highways since the end of world war ii. for the past 9 years. the distinguished senator from massachusetts. senator kennedy. and myself tried to go ahead and see these dollars more equitably distributed and tried to go ahead and break the highway trust fund.  from the point of view of  having money there for highways. but giving to states the option as to whether or  to use the money for highways or rail systems and whatever. and we have been denied by this body. so. if anyone wants to resolve the transportation problem in his state and wants to have it 90 percent funded by the federal government that state has to build a highway. that is why we are in the difficulties we are today because all we have been doing is building highways and building cars. and the energy source is longer available to usoil. so much for our investment in highways and automobiles. how else are we going to move. reference is made by the distinguished senator from louisiana. "i will give everybody an airplane ticket." is the airplane the mode of travel for all americans in the future. it seems to me there we are talking about a relative few. i use it and certainly most of my colleagues do. but numbers wise that is  the american public. the only mode of transportation next to the automobile and the bus that can move people in large numbers is the train. it is the most energyefficient. it goes ahead and accentuates conservation  only of oil but also of the land. in the comparison between an airplane and train. a twinengine jet. such as the dc9 or 737. gets 30 to 47 seat miles per gallon. a subcompact car gets 120. an express bus gets 282. and a modem amtrak locomotive gets up to 360. these are the comparisons that we should take as we move into this new era of a lack of energy. the job of senators and of the executive branch of government is  to react to a crisis but to anticipate it. is there anyone in this chamber or outside who doubts the fact that we are in that crisis today and that hing we do is going to get us out of it for 20 years. great disappointment was expressed at the time the initial energy plan came down from the administration for whatever it was offered. hing was done visavis a commitment to rail transportation. . let me give you a clearcut example of the ramifications ecoically of the predicament we find ourselves in relative to the lack of oil. in a state such as some of our new england states. if automobile travel is restricted. and it will be. there is other mode of transportation except the railroad. that is it.   every community has an airport.   every community is on a waterway.   every community has available to it the facilities to handle massive amounts of automobiles or buses. rail is the only way. and if you do away with the rail systems in those communities. you do away with business. and i mean  just tourism but every aspect of business. and then watch the crunch start. i would wish the question answered by some of my good colleagues who confront this every day. if car travel is restricted and there is rail system. how do you get into vermont. how do you get into maine. how do you get into new hampshire. what happens. the airports are  there to cover those states. as i said. the car is gradually. to a degree. going to be done away with. how do you get in there. well. you do . and then what happens to the ecoy of those areas. let me just say in conclusion. that i think a terrible mistake has been made by the united states of america in  making a full commitment to the building of a firstclass rail system. i am  impressed with the $3 billion figure cited by the senator. i am  at all impressed. that is onehalf of what we are spending per year on highways. onehalf. it is  a question of $3 billion. since the end of world war ii this country has spent an average of $6 billion annually. which is on the low side. $6 billion per year on highways. we are talking about roughly 35 years of such expenditures. so we are talking about a total of $210 billion on highways. $210 billion on highways. which we had to build. i might add. from scratch. and somebody is complaining about $600 million or. $3 billion. or whatever the figure the distinguished senators want to use. i am  impressed.  impressed at all. if anyone thinks you can go ahead and abandon these routes and then. when the emergency situation becomes clear. come back and reuse them. he is wrong. one can reuse them. it is like anything else. you keep the trains in operating order. or otherwise the costs are prohibitive to get them back into shape. is  anybody frightened over the statement made by the distinguished senator from louisiana. which is a repetition of the statement made by the secretary of transportation. that in an emergencythis is the statement--that in an emergency amtrak does  have the equipment to meet the nations passenger needs. are you  a little bit frightened about that statement "in an emergency amtrak does  have the equipment." what kind of an argument is that in support of abandoning the rail systems of this nation. such a statement would get me on the stick to the point that i would make sure that i acted to make sure that we did have the necessary equipment. i will read the cited paragraph from the letter of the secretary of transportation. this is a letter from the secretary of transportation to me. dated march 22 of this year: we should all bear aher point in mind when we think about the role of passenger trains in meeting a possible energy crisis. amtrak currently carries less than threetenths of 1 percent of the intercity travelers in this country. and it does so with a fleet of locomotives and passenger cars that would take several more years to augment. in the event of an energy emergency amtrak could play significant role in meeting the nations passenger transportation needs. those are the words of the secretary of transportation. yet. in light of this statement we want to cut out further routes on amtrak. might i add this letter was dated march 22. and ice how it says "in an emergency." is there anybody who believes we are  in an emergency. maybe  the u.s. senate or house. in light of the way they handle energy. but. believe me. the reality of the world around us is such that we are in an emergency. yet. we are  saying that amtrak can handle it. so we are going to go and cut amtrak back further. what kind of insanity is that. sure. amtrak is  going to go ahead and become a competitive force in transportation with the niggling amounts which have been parceled out by this body in the past several years. it is  a competitive form of travel as long as everything is all right and we have all the gasoline we want. then it has to compete. you see. with the total length of the run. let us say between getting to the airport and taking a plane ride and getting away from the next airport. which is. let us say. a 2 hours run between washington and new york. this is fine. as long as you have all the gasoline you want. but. my friends. as you well k. those airplane schedules are being cut back. and you can longer use your car as much as you would like to in the sense of getting to where it is you want to go. thus we have to make amtrak competitive in good times. but today it has a more basic duty to perform. a duty of energy conservation. of getting people from point a to point b. in other words. the major portion of peoples travel is what we are talking about. thus permitting them to use whatever gasoline they do have at either end. but we should be concerned with covering the large segment of travel by rail.  amtrak has  been competitive with the airplane or the superhighways or faster automobiles. and because it has  been is one reason why we are in the predicament we are in today. but  it is longer a matter of our judgment. circumstances have overtaken us. they have overtaken the statistics cited by the opponents of this measure. they have overtaken all of us. and the choices among the routes of energy conservation we are going to follow become narrower and narrower as each day slips by. five years ago. i presented my mandatory conservation plans on the floor of the u.s. senate. when we tried at that time to get capital for additional oil production. whatever that cost was is minimal compared to the price that is going to have to be paid in the year 1979. people would have hardly felt it at that time.  they are feeling it. and there is cavalry to come to the rescue on this issue. we in the senate are the only ones who have it within our control to avoid. or to surmount. this crisis. it is  going to be mexico. and it is  going to be iran turning the spigot back on. it is  going to be something in the way of a magic fuel source dropping from the heavens. it has to be us. it is by conservation. by changing our lifestyles. by planning alternate sources of energy that we are going to meet the crisis. one element of an energy plan must be to develop a rounded transportation system in this country. senator kennedy and i used to stand here and argue that very logical point.  it can be argued from the position of necessity. since logic has had effect on those in this chamber. maybe the reality of the crisis will have an effect. i hope in any event that this body will have the opportunity to voice its opinions on this matter. this has been. i gather. hotly debated and reviewed within the commerce committee itself and has been a matter of very close decision within that committee. it seems to me best in instances such as that that the full body should have the opportunity to exercise its will. and i hope this aftern that such will be the case. that we have an upordown vote on this amendment to indicate what the directions of the united states of america are going to be. yes. to indicate whether we are going to take some positive steps in getting ourselves out of the energy crisis. it is  something we are going to leave to chance. it is  something we are going to leave to history. rather. it must be by timely action taken by this generation.
i thank the senator from idaho. ial action has come to pass through congressional action or congressional action which throttles the ability of our government to put together a cohesive energy policy. we hear terms like "cosmic effect." and "macro ecoics." to put it out very simply. due to the lack of commitment. selfdiscipline or policy. prices continue to rise for oil and gas. there is a question of whether domestic supply will increase. and the nation sinks further and further into a recession. i do  think the national interest is served by cutting deals that favor anyone in this situation. never mind the oil and gas producers. never mind the various geographic sections of the country. never mind those who have an interest in the automobile and all of its aspects. what about the american people. what about that national interest. the senator from louisiana has consistently led the opposition on this floor to any kind of conservation. obviously. i expected-
. i am opposed to allowing the states to raise the 55 milesperhour national speed limit to 65 milesperhour on rural interstates. during this time when everyone is focusing on the issue of safety in the rail and aviation industries. it is ludicrous that we should increase the risk of accidents on our much traveled highways. the fact of the matter is that 55 saves lives. when all other arguments regarding the national speed limit are considered. this is the most convincing to me and the most important to the american people. the debate on raising the speed limit revolves around the basic -issue of safety and ecoics. supporters of raising the 55 milesperhour speed limit e the energy crisis as the reason for this limit and point to the current plentiful supply of fuel along with newer. fuelefficient automobiles as arguments for raising the speed limit. however. the current fuel surplus can change the fact that -the energy supplies have proven to be extremely volatile. in addition. the national academy of sciences determined that 167.000 barrels of fuel are saved every day due to the the 55 milesperhour speed limit. which is nearly 2 percent of this nations highway fuel consumption. it has also been determined that there is a 15.6 -to 33.9 percent loss in fuel ecoy when speed increased from the 55 milesperhour to 70 milesperhourdepending on size and type of vehicle. the 70 milesperhour figure is significant because this is the lowest speed at which cars will most likely travel if the states are permitted to raise the limit to 65 milesperhour. it is also important to e that the greatest loss in fuel ecoy results in the smaller. more fuel efficient vehicles. i proposed legislation in 1985 -to increase the federal gasoline tax in order to decrease the consumption of gas and diesel fuel from approximately 120 billiongallons in 1985 to some 105 billion gallons in 1988. this legislation was  enacted. however. yesterday i again introduced legislation to raise the federal gasoline tax because i strongly believe that energy conservation has got to be an ongoing. national goal. we should build upon our fuel savings and  encourage waste. and given the volatility in the middle east. we must  remain so depeh -dent on opec. when it comes to safety. there are :arguments that justify raising the speed limit. including the introduction of socalled safer .new cars. a car is "only as safe as its driver and speeding drivers kill. this fact becomes startingly clear. when we -consider that 25.000 to 50.000 lives were saved between .1975 and 1985the time the national speed limit has remained at the .55 milesperhour. : the national academy of sciences .determined in 1984. as a result of its study on the the 55 milesperhour limit. that 2.000 to 4.000 lives are saved per year at least that many dis.abling injuries are prevented due to -the uniform speed limit of 55. several government programs. including medicare. medicaid. and old -age survivors and. disability insurance. .provide benefits that are affected by highway fatalities. disabilities and injuries. $65 million per year in costs to .the taxpayer is saved because of the 55milesperhour speed limit. this .amount corresponds to a reduction in total federal spending of about 0.01 percent. during the past 10 years or so. the "immense reduction in deaths and injuries joins the $2 billion fuel bill we save each year and the reduction of $65 million per year for insurance pro.grams. the 55mileperhour speed limit has been one of the most effective highway policies ever adopted. . and the best argument for maintaining this limit is still the shortest: 55 saves lives.
. i have always opposed the landing of supersonic transports in u.s. airports. while i believe secretary coleman acted thoughtfully and in good faith in arriving at his decision to allow limited landings of the concorde. i simply disagree with his conclusion. i am therefore cosponsoring the amendment filed by senator weicker of connecticut which would prohibit all commercial sst landings except in cases of emergency. i believe this is the proper course for several reasons. first. the flights violate the federal aviation administrations own se level regulations. the concorde is about 10 decibels louder than current faa regulations permit. and to the human ear. 10 decibels is actually a doubling in loudness. hence. the concorde is twice as loud as conventional jets on takeoffs and landings. the present faa regulations deal only with our subsonic. conventional aircraft and therefore do  cover the supersonic concorde. in 1970 the faa did issue "advance ice of proposed rule making" with regard to supersonic jet se levels. but unfortunately further action was taken and there are such regulations in effect today. second. the environmental effects of supersonic flights pose an emous danger to the very ecological system that supports life on this planet. there is ample evidence to suggest that supersonic jets may well be reducing the ozone layer of our atmosphere and thereby destroying the earths most important protective covering. the ozone layer shields our planet from the suns harmful radiation. without it life as we k it could  survive. yet even if we could solve the difficult environmental problems and concern ourselves only with the practical aspects of the concorde jets. they are still  proven to be a viable means of transportation. and this leads us to the third problem: safety. the concorde would need special air traffic control procedures because it may be unable to stay in a holding pattern within the present controlled airspace of 14.000 feet. this could further overburden our air traffic controllers. who are already hyperextended. finally. there is the problem of energy. the concorde needs more fuel than a subsonic jet in order to accelerate from subsonic to supersonic speeds. with the country in the throes of a very real energy crisis. this factor renders the concorde all but impractical. and perhaps more important. the concorde has a lower than mal fuel reserve because of its greater need for fuel in flight. this means that if. as happens quite often. the jet has to maintain a holding pattern at the airport due to  uncommon delays. it would  have the neded fuel reserve to either stay in the holding pattern or divert to aher airport. those who argue that up until  the concorde has always had egh fuel overlook the fact that all previous flights were special flights and all landing patters were clear. this will  be the case if the concorde were to be put into commercial use unless of course special air traffic controls were imposed. i can persuade myself that the convenience of a few hours of travel time saved by the tiny elite that can afford to take advantage of these flights is worth these risks. as far as i can see. it is  up to the congress to institute regulations concerning civil supersonic air traffic. and i hope my colleagues will agree that concorde jet shall touch down on american soil.
s transportation package is the opening salvo in this administrations attack on our urban problems. then the older cities of our country should be very concerned. my approach would provide a realistic level of funding for mass transit and would establish a basis for a longterm commitment to transit operating costs. i think that it will encourage responsible local efforts to provide adequate transit service which is supportive of our broader national energy and urban goals. by mr. hart (for himself and
. on january 19 the petroleum administration for defense. after making a survey among the major suppliers of heating oil to the east coast and most of the tankterminal resellers of distillate fuels. reached the conclusion that. assuming mal or colder weather during the balance of the season. there would be a shortage in the theast area th of folk. va.. of approximately 6.000.000 barrels of distillate fuels. which would represent a 10percent deficit for the months of february and march. i have been advised today that as a result of favorable weather conditions as of february 1 the anticipated shortage has been reduced to 5 percent. or 3.000.000 barrels. i am confident that the continued interest in this matter on the part of the industry and several government agencies can ard will result in the delivery of sufficient heating oils between  and march 31 to prevent a shortage. in this connection. i am including for the record an article which appeared in the wall street journal of today entitled "petroleum firms to ship 5 percent more heating oil to east coast in return for review of their price ceilings": in exchange for a promise that the oil industrys price ceilings would be reviewed. 14 major oil companies yesterday agreed to ship 5 percent more heating oil to the -east coast over the next 2 months. the petroleum administration for defense urged the increased shipments to avert a threatened 3.000.000 barrel shortage of heating oil. particularly in new england. the companies agreed to make the shipments. despite high costs involved. the agency said defense mobilizer wilson had indicated that "any agreedupon changes will be made later than june 1." this promise means a review of the whole pricing structure in the industry. transportation included. the pad said. a government program to subsidize the cost of transporting heating oil to the east coast for the next 3 months was abandoned because mr. wilson indicated he wouldnt go along with the plan. pad reported mr. wilson- as saying a subsidy would be hard to control. tanker rates have jumped 200 percent from a year ago. while suppliers prices have remained frozen. because of this. integrated east coast suppliers can bring in gulf coast oil under ops ceiling except at a loss of about 2.4 cents a gallon. the agency explained. pad estimated that the outofpocket cost to the industry in the voluntary program of bringing 5 percent more fuel oil to the east coast will be seven or eight million dollars. last week. pad estimated a 6.000.000barrel shortage of heating oil on the east coast.. but yesterday said the estimated shortage was revised to 3.000.000 barrels during february and march. the revision was due to a warm january. pad explained. the industry agreed to ship necessary requirements of fuel oil to the east coast at a meeting with pad yesterday. about 75 representatives of about 35 companies. including most of the major ones. were on hand. out of this group representatives of 14 companies said they would take care of the 5 percent requirement. agreement came after a. p. frame. assistant deputy administrator of pad. told them: "we are about to run out of oil unless something is done. you must recognize that. despite the cost to you. the industry can permit fuel oil shortages on the eastern seaboard." mr. frame said that a plea to the office of price stabilization to hike prices had  worked and that the subsidy plan was disapproved. mr. frame said. "these companies in many cases are confronted with heavy expenses." he applauded their willingness to take on the job and said. "we have gone to the heart of the matter." further. i am including the following dispatch taken from the up wire service today: extra supplies of heating oil will be shipped into the theast united states under a plan undertaken by 14 oil companies to avert a threatened fuel shortage in that region. a. p. frame. assistant deputy administrator of the petroleum administration for defense (pad). said the operators agreed to the plan yesterday after mobilization officials promised a thorough review of price ceilings for heating oil on the east and gulf coasts. frame estimated the firms might suffer an outofpocket cost of between seven and eight million dollars in. the program. "it was the greatest display of social consciousness on the part of industry ive ever seen." he said. "its an example of industryany industryat its best."
these figures show that the capital cost to the united states would be $30.626.000. and the board of engineers added a 20percent safety factor. making it $37.000.000 in order to cover the increase in costs between 1931 and 1934. in 1939. we find the chief of engineers stating in his report. on page 17. that the first step. as modified. would cost the federal government about $38.500.000. in the 1941 hearings we find colonel th estimating. even as a wartime measure. as a measure to be constructed at the high cost of wartime operation. that it would cost $48.179.000. in the present hearing we find colonel feringa. at page 103 of the 1944 senate hearings. again stating that the cost as a postwar project would be $38.500.000. this is highly conservative. particularly in view of the elimination of the reservoir which was referred to in the earlier estimates. as to the capital costs to local interests. we again find these wellwithin conservative estimates. at page 12. in paragraph 27. which has already been placed in the record. we find that the estimated cost to the local interests. as found in house document 277. for 1934. is $8.377.000. the board of engineers. in order to afford a thorough safety factor. increased this estimate to $10.000.000. in view of the possible increase in labor costs from 1931 to 1934. but today we find that it will  cost $10.000.000. because a good deal of the cost has  been transferred from private interests to the government. and the government costs have been otherwise reduced. today the capital costs to the local interests appear in the 1939 report as $3.900.000. and that is where they stand in our present estimates. we come  to the question of the saving in rates of transportation. these are the annual savings based upon the high railroad rates aad the lower water rates. and allowing for a fair return upon the various capital investments which have been made. that is to say. in order to bring about the estimate which results in the recommendation of the board of engineers. there is  merely a comparison between what the water rate would be and what the railroad rate would be. but in addition there is included a computation of what the full cost to the public is. including interest on the investment and the other items to which i shall refer. so there is a fu: and fair comparison between railroad rates and water rates. and other costs to the public besides what it pays in . ater rates. madam president. there are two general kinds of cases in which wate-" transportation is well justified. one is even more clearly justified than the other. the case before us belongs to the clearer and more urgent class. the first class is a case in which the railroad rates are based largely upon cost and a fair profit. so that the rates can be fairly reduced without going below cost and a fair profit. perhaps resulting in the transportation company going out of business. on the other hand. there is the other class of ratesand this is one of those casesin which the railroad rate is far above the cost of service. and is based upon what the traffic can be forced to bear. and the railroad refuses to reduce its extraordinary rate. much. of the coal which would be brought in by way of the canal would come from the captive mines owned by some of the steel companies in youngstown. the railroad really "hijacks" the load. because it forces it off the river at the ohio river. and onto the railroad as the only means of transporting it. and charges what the traffic will bear. which is so high a charge as to be fdr out of line with other charges for railroad services. i shall show later that the present rate is more than twice the average rate for such service. and the earnings per carmile are about five times the average earnings per carmile. as the senator from louisiana has stated. the rate being paid to youngstown is $1.23/2 a ton. whereas it would be about 40 cents a ton by water. the railroads refuse to reduce their rates to any degree whatever in order to meet this situation. the interstate commerce commission. in a hearing dealing with the whole situation. declined to reduce the rates. in view of potential water competition. in such a case the answer. which has been given so many times in this nation. is actual water competition for the benefit of the public. neither the railroads  competing interests  enjoying water rates can justly oppose the rights of the ratepaying and taxpaying public. who are entitled to reasonable rates.  only in this case but in other and similar cases. the contrast in rates is easily shown in this manner: the youngstown coal rate is the highest per tonmile or per carmile paid by any steelproducing district in america. it is about 21.3 mills per tonmile. and the average revenue in the united states per tonmile in 1942 for all class i railroads was 9.32 mills. the youngstown rate is. therefore two and onethird times higher than the general average rate. furthermore. the average rate in the nation for coal is even lower than 9.32 mills. it is only 7.8 mills. so the youngstown coal rate per tonmile is about three times higher than the average rate for coal. these figures are taken from the 1944 hearings. before the senate committee on commerce. at pages 116 and 127. on page 116 we find that the average earnings per carmile in this service are $1.40 based on the youngstown charge by the railroads. this is five times greater than the average earnings of all class i railroads in the united states for comparable service. the average is 28 cents. these figures are taken from statistical survey  27 of the bureau of railroad ecoics. a department of the association of american railroads. the senator from louisiana referred to the ecoic history of this area as showing how it came about that youngstown suffered this disadvantage. when youngstown first went into the steel busi-. ness. as he so well stated. there was coal nearby. when that was used up. the coke was produced by the beehive process at the mines and transported by rail. however. when the by product coke process was developed instead of the beehive coke process. it then became possible for the pittsburgh interests to bring their coal. by water transportation to the coke ovens at pittsburgh. for coal. unlike coke. was suited to such handling. on the other hand it was necessary for the youngstown people to carry their coal to youngstown by rail or partly by water and partly by rail. the advantage to pittsburgh due to water transportation. as against a partrail or allrail rate to youngstown. became increasingly great as the rail rates went up. even that was  so bad. so long as the rates were equalized. but when the system of rate adjustment in the country was changed. and the equalization of rates between areas was abandoned new rates were set up. then youngstown was put at a disadvantage. if the differentials had been based upon cost for service. there would have been less basis for complaint. but when the differential. was put upon the basis of what the traffic will bear. then there developed the extraordinary result which has been described. it  means a contrast of this kind: it costs. to transport coal to pittsburgh. somewhere between 10 and 20 cents a ton. whereas if the coal goes to youngstown. the water rate .hich must be paid to the mouth of the beaver river is 28 cents a ton. thenthe coal must be unloaded and placed on railroad cars. at a loading or unloading cost of 51/2 cents a ton. then it is moved by rail into the youngstown district. at a rail rate of 90 cents a ton. so that the total youngstown riverrail rate on mogahela coal is $1.235. as compared with 10 or 20 cents in pittsburgh or the 40 cents which the rate would be if the coal were carried by water to youngstown. that brings me to a further computation which appears in the pamphlet which has been placed on the desks of senators. it is the cost of the assembly of a ton of iron. it appears on page 10 of the pamphlet.
. although i am from new york. i am sympathetic with the position of the senator from wisconsin. i can understand perfectly how he feels. he has raised this question upon several occasions. raising such questions creates a serious consciousness of federal expenditure policy and facilitates an accounting of the operations of our government. the senator from washington has pointed out that many improvements have been made in helicopter services. what i would like to say deals with two fundamentals. first. i point out that the wall street stop is only one of the stops used by the helicopter service in new york. the major service is between newark and kennedy international airports. that is because they are so far apart. because of the traffic density. a 21/2hour trip by automobile is necessary. even though on the map the distance appears to be quite short. the real justification for the helicopter subsidy is the kledge we gain from commercial operation of an important means of transportation. as we all k. transportation is one of the really critical problems of our nation and our world. i see the senator from new jersey in the chamber. recently the senate passed the mass transportation bill. of which he was in charge on the floor. he is very much aware of these complex problems. a remarkable breakthrough has been made with helicopter transportation. today the helicopter performs an essential role in military airground support operations. the helicopter operators claimand i believe justly sothat a great deal of what was learned about fuel ecoy. operational safety. and technical operations in the daily attrition of commercial operation has been extremely valuable to the military forces. its value has been estimated at $70 million as against the total subsidy of $46 million.
 nixon on this subject which i inserted in the record on august 28. 1970. questions must also be raised concerning the legislation proposed by the finance committee which would affect the united statescanadian automobile agreement. at this time i would suggest that there are even broader issues involved such as those affecting the energy requirements of the united states. i ask unanimous consent that the article on this subject published in business week of ember 28 be printed in the record.
