. i urged the creation of a white house council of municipal advisers to provide a focal point specifically for the consideration of urban problems. "it is imperative." i wrote. "that an effective. creative and sympathetic mechanism be established to insure that the priority attention that our urban problems require be continued." there is less need to insure that the legislative branch also be able to focus on and respond adequately to the problems of our cities. and act on them effectively. we are   set up to do so. there are at present time less than nine separate committees in the house which share jurisdiction over various but closely related aspects of urban programs. the committees on agriculture. banking and currency. the district of columbia. education and labor. government operations. judiciary. interior and insular affairs. interstate and foreign commerce. and public works all have significant areas of jurisdiction over urban problems. ranging from food stamps to recreation. this system makes it virtually impossible for the congress to consider urban programs as a comprehensive whole or to offer the coordinated approach necessary to solve them. the diffusion of responsibility prevents us from considering the interrelationships between. for example. housing and education. between transportation and pollution. between highways and open spaces. at times. in fact. this wide dispersal of authority results in our working at cross purposes. i am. therefore. filing legislation today. with the bipartisan cosponsor of 28 of my colleagues. to create a committee on urban affairs in the house of representatives. it would consist of 25 members. and would handle all measures relating to urban areas generally. including housing. urban renewal. and the prevention and elimination of urban blight. the problems of air and water pollution that plague our cities. and transportation. hopefully its membership would be composed of members from each of the existing committees  dealing with such problems. thus providing the expertise necessary for a steppedup. coordinated congressional effort to develop new programs for our cities and to oversee and improve existing ones. the creation of a committee on urban affairs is  a new idea. i have. in fact. as have many others in the house. been urging action on this since my first year as a member of this body. it has become increasingly clear. however. that without a more meaningful approach and more effective action than we have had in the past. we will be hard pressed to find solutions to our ever more critical urban situation. christopher morley once wrote: all cities are mad but the madness is gallant. all cities are beautiful but the beauty is grim. but there is hing very gallant  very beautiful about the continuing deterioration of the urban condition. and the physical and social decay that is all too visible. certainly there is much that is grim. it has taken violent upheavals to rivet the nations collective attention on problems it has too long neglectedthe socalled crisis of the cities has become a national crisis. we must be able to respond to it. those joining me today in filing the resolution for a committee on urban affairs in the house of representatives are as follows:
